ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply:), the European Commission, the European Central Bank (ECB) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).) (A '90), (f) of 17 August 2015 Act of Legislative Content "Urgent Arrangements for the Rehabilitation of Loss of Extreme Creams in the Regional Unit of Evros" (A'97), (g) of 19 August 2015 Act of Legislative Content "Additional provision to n. 2292/1995 ‘Organisation and functioning of the Ministry of National Defence, Administration and Control of the Armed Forces and Other Provisions’ (A'100), (h) of 22 August 2015 Act of Legislative Area ‘Urgent arrangements for the smooth functioning of the Local Government Organisations’ (A' 102), (j) of 10 September 2015 Act of Legislative Area ‘Enforcement of the school year 2015-2016 and the orderly functioning of school units’ (A'102), (j) of 10 September 2015 Act of Legislative Area ‘Enforcement of the school year 2015-2016 and of the well-functioning of school units’ (A'108') and (k) of 25 September 2015 Act of Legislation of the Governing Council of Economic Areas and Social Development (Act No. 1211') (Act No. The Conference of Presidents of 17 November 2015 decided that this debate would take place at one or two meetings. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read to you some communications: From the New Democracy at the plenary session of the House for today's debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance for the ratification of Acts of Legislative Content, Parliamentary Representative is appointed as MP of Cyclades, Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. From the People's Association - Golden Dawn, a special speaker is appointed in Athens, Ilias Panagiotaros and Parliamentary Representative, Christos Papapas. The Group of the Party of European Socialists from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) - DIMAR, for today's sitting, is the special speaker, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou. The JRC is designated for today's sitting as a special speaker, Athanasios Vardalis. The Potami is designated as a Parliamentary representative, MP Spyridon Dannelis and special speaker, Mr Iason Fotillas. Finally, Mr Dimitrios Kavalis is designated as a special speaker of the Parliamentary Group. The rapporteur for SYRIZA, Mr Vettas, has the floor now. You're welcome, Mr. Vetta.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are living a part of national loneliness. I do not see too many people in plenary. Following the debate in the Standing Committee on Finance, the draft law on legislative acts is currently in plenary for discussion and ratification today, of course by ratifying the relevant articles of this draft law. This includes twelve acts of legislation, including the first five acts concerning the act of legislation establishing short-term bank holidays and the next four related acts, various amendments, improvements, additions, which were deemed necessary during the bank holiday. Additions or improvements, of course, concerning the extension of the duration of the bank holiday itself. Additions and improvements to banking transactions during the bank holiday. Additions and improvements or modifications regulating issues relating to restrictive measures or suspending enforcement, etc. Ladies and gentlemen, if the question were whether or not we should have expected that the European Central Bank would have exceeded its institutional role and would, by pressing, of course, on institutional policies, circumvent its basic institutional obligation, which was not to maintain the smoothness of banking transactions, the maintenance of funding - I mean the banking system of the country - then the answer is yes and no. Because we know very well from the pressures that the European Central Bank was having on the one hand and from the policy - if you like - the presence, attitude and behaviour of the European Central Bank at that time. The question now is whether the European Central Bank should overcome - if you like - its institutional status. I think this is an issue that should concern us as a country - a member of the European Union and the Eurozone. What happened later, we all understood it. The string closed and we had to take the necessary measures, which were not other than the temporary measures to limit trade, in the form of a bank holiday, until the time comes for the European Central Bank to refinance itself through liquidity - through ELA, I mean, by strengthening the ELA limit - our banking system. Things were so hard. No one can deny that. It was an unprecedented situation for the country itself, for the banking system itself. It was an unprecedented situation for the economic structures of the country, for the State General Accounting Office, for the Ministry of Finance. According to the statements made by the Deputy Minister of Finance at the time, Mr Mardas, in the Committee on Economic Affairs some days ago, the great burden of this effort lifted it by the General Accounting Office of the State, which was relatively fast and effective and with the very good cooperation with the Bank of Greece, he began to address the first requests they made, without, of course, forgetting the difficult situation and the difficult circumstances of that time. The problems of imports were thus treated relatively quickly, mainly through the interconnection of the General Accounting Office of the State and the Ministry of Finance on the one hand and the banks on the other hand, creating an electronic platform and overcoming problems and obstacles to bureaucracy, with the priority of financing those applications relating to imports, mainly medicines and food. Some problems were experienced on imports, but the system was simplified in the following way: at first, credit institutions, banks, therefore, were serving the small demands, I mean the requests for small amounts. In larger amounts and up to a certain limit there have been the banks' committees, where it has acted relatively quickly, bearing in mind that there has been a categorisation of demands and demands. At the end of the day, of course, where there were major problems and the most important issues were the large committee, under the auspices of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Finance. Clearly, there were problems relating to imports. There may have been problems with the provisions and regulations. Nevertheless, there have also been problems - and that is what we must look at and see it always - which had as their source their behaviour or the obstructions or the difficulties of the theoretical systems themselves. In the tourism sector, I think, the problems have been tackled relatively quickly and there have been no particular problems. It also admits, of course, the very good course of the tourist product in general. On the maritime side, where problems have arisen - there were, of course, some demands for money - I think they have also been resolved in a short time. Anyway, the situation has now been normalized to a satisfactory degree. We will shortly be hearing the rapporteurs of the Opposition to raise their concerns, to put their views forward, to set their records. We will hear from the side of the New Democracy, as was formed in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the account entitled 'You closed the banks'. I think it did not take much time to be consumed to answer this account. We are all very well aware of the pressures that the country, but also the government at that time, both from the European Central Bank and from the institutions. I think we all lived the bombings of institutional announcements. Besides, I don't think we were the ones talking about coups at the time. They were talking about all these things, serious personalities of Europe. Nor should we forget the great mobilisation of the peoples of Europe on our side, both in favour of the country and in favour of the government. So who closed the banks I think has answered. It also responded to the conscience of the Greek people, and I do not say this re-insurgent or obsessive. I think that the people had inspired in their conscience the problems of that time and during the referendum and in the previous national elections, on 20 September, expressed their desire to have, as I said, in his conscience all these problems. There is no complaint, of course, from the Government about the attitude of counter-population. I think that would be naive. But there is one complaint and I think that complaint was made in the elections on 20 September. It is a grievance on the part of the Greek people, who did not see a statement from the entire Opposition, which reads as follows: to say a stop to the demands of lenders and the European Central Bank to him. In order not to have any greater problems, at least to demand that the excessively strict demands of the partners be stopped by the government and the Greek people. We have, of course, heard various voices instead of them. We have heard voices enlightened and I think it is not worth mentioning these voices, because they are usually screaming, they are screaming and they have no substance. However, there have also been voices of people who have a personal political course, which is closely linked to the political history of this place. Of the Illuminati, who I told you, can't wait. From the second voices, however - not in their essence, but in my report, second, that is what I mean - I think people have been waiting for other things. I do not want to say with this that there has been a non-patriotic attitude from these voices. Nevertheless, when there are serious people and when there are experienced politicians, I should like to say this, they must take very good care of their statements, because they know very well that these statements will have serious consequences for each economy, imagine less in our own economy, which is facing such great problems. Clearly, we are neither fait accomplis nor followers of criminalising the political declaration and of political reference nor followers of criminalising political life. Nevertheless, at some point we must at all here, as a Parliament, see what we are going to do with these voices, how we will stop tomorrow - the day after tomorrow, such voices, which may come and be irresponsible. However, they are dangerous voices, and at the same time they can be provocative voices, which, as I said, do very great evil in the country's economy. We will, of course, also hear the second account, the most important one, which says that we are legislating only by legislative acts and that the number of acts, in all the legislation that we have brought up to now, is too great. Clearly no one can rejoice when it is legislated on legislative matters. Nevertheless, we must all have in mind what we are legislating with these actions. I think the argument that we only legislate by means of legislative acts falls short of itself. I do not think it is worth talking and I do not think there will be a profit, a opposition I mean, using such arguments. Moreover, anyone who sees and the necessities that were served by these acts will understand that in many cases - and we will explain it below - there was no time but no other way to legislate differently. I say this because, how else could we legislate in the case of Evros, where urgency was urgent? We quickly had to legislate and take steps to restore damage due to the extreme phenomena in Evros. Should we wait to legislate after two, three, five months? I think it's not reasonable things and they don't have a trace of seriousness. We also legislated by legislative acts to solve years of problems relating to the smooth operation of school units. I know and you all know that these problems relating to schools are unresolved, chronic problems, and they are deliberately unresolved problems. I think it would not be useful for any opposition krone here to do so by or without PPP. It doesn't matter. What was to exist as a opposition, I would say, would be that we must now resolve this huge issue, for example, of substitute teachers, by at least releasing these people from the hostage, on the one hand, and by giving the educational community and the education community itself and to its subject, this educational staff that is now needed. And I think we need to do this soon, and we'll talk about it later. We have, of course, also identified the disagreements you had in Article 12 and Article 6, if I am not mistaken, which refers to the procedures for selecting institutions in the country's higher education institutions. It is true that we have seen in a different way the possibility that councils have to pre-select it. These councils have been out for a year and a half, two and a half years and one of their responsibilities is to choose, by interview, three members from all the members, from all the candidates, excluding the others. This, of course, also applies to the dean. In our personal view, we consider this to be an undemocratic process, and we wonder why the rest of the teachers, who also have the right to vote, should not vote freely on one of the whole. So we believe that it is a brutal devaluation and the intelligence of the elite body, which is, of course, based on the imposition of a specific proposal. The legislation, of course, is due to the fact that there have been tough time frames, as there has already been an extension, which - if not wrong - was for the end of October. We have, of course, made the 'crime' to legislate by means of a legislative act and to authorize the Minister to conclude, as a result of the urgency, lease agreements, chartering ships for a certain period of three months and a maximum period of three months. That's a lot of work. A big field for opposition. What's that for? To address the very serious needs of food, accommodation, medical care, care and transportation of migrants, to address the sudden mass entry of the large number of immigrants. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying that we have too many problems to solve. We have flaws coming from the past and it doesn't matter who created them. It is important that these imperfections should be resolved. We have great challenges ahead of us that await us. We have to resolve and reflect the major reform in public administration. I will not just say great, I will say that it is an important reform, as long as we do something important, more than yesterday. We have to deal with the great corruption in this place. We have to resolve and bring the world a fairer one until it becomes a fair, tax system and we have to start a national dialogue which, at last, needs to start in that country. Society expects us to do very important things and I think we should not go into the second place. Besides, she knows who and when she brought her all the way here. That is not what we are talking about today, however. I think miserable locations should go back to the past. I hope that the Civic Opposition - I say this in time - will soon end with internal party procedures, because it is an essential partner in the great national dialogue and in the debate that this country must finally do. That is what we need today and nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vetta, who was in time. Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor for 15 minutes. I would like to inform you that after Mrs Asmakopoulou she will close the registration machine for anyone who would like to participate as speaker. Here you go, Mrs. Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, twelve acts of legislation to be ratified. Not one, not two, not three, but twelve acts of legislation! And of course, without any sign of shame or of the way in which you legislated or the contents of most of them, because with some, Mr rapporteur, we have agreed. The draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media has tried to defend the defenceless, in my view. I will today use as much as possible - not to blame me for empathy and political bias - not my own words, words where I can, but your words or words of others, which are generally accepted. So I begin with your own words on legislative matters. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras said in December 2012: “In legislative acts democracy is shrinking.” In June 2013, Alexis Tsipras said: "We once had the royal decrees. Today we have the legislative acts.' Furthermore, Dimitris Papadimoulis: 'There is no other country in Europe', let me 'the humiliation of legislating by legislative acts'. So, not with my own words, but with your own words, what you are doing today is shrinking democracy with twelve royal decrees and leading the country to humiliation. I would like to make these statements for the record. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the document with the above-mentioned statements, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Today, then, we will see these legislative acts and your rapporteur has correctly grouped the first five, because they concern the closure of banks and the well-known situation of capital controls. And before I go to my comments on this, I listened with interest to the SYRIZA rapporteur telling us that the problems created by the Capital Controls have basically been solved. If they have been solved and if you support this, Mr Minister, we are fine! So I'm going through this and I'm going to say something using your own words again. Let's see what you said about capital controls and banks. Here I have noted to use the words of the former government representative, Mr Sakellaridis. When I made this report to the Committee on Finance, Mr Sakellaridis was still a member of the SYRIZA. Now, of course, it is not, but he said before 28 June, when you closed the banks, that there is no case for capital control and that deposits are secured and the banking system is strong. Of course the Minister, Mr Mardas, said: "We are not Cyprus. No capital controls will be imposed.’ I make these statements in the Minutes, please. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the document with the above-mentioned statements, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's what you said. But on June 28th, you closed the banks. You closed the banks. No one else hung up. And it's time that the people finally listen to this and understand it. And to see you today, not only to admit that you have closed the banks, but also to vote for them, and to take responsibility for the closure of the banks as well. Of course, you have said a lot of things - your own words again - that it is not your fault that the banks have closed down. Mr. Tsipras, in his referendum complaint said that the decision on capital control has no purpose but to blackmail the Greek people's will and prevent the referendum from taking place. I guess he didn't want to blackmail the Greek people. It is the bad partners who have tried to blackmail us. Mr Flamouraris also accused the European Central Bank of closing the banks. And Mr Drasakis was talking about political purposes for the closure of the banks. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But to finish with this tale of who closed the banks, I have the bill here and the twelve acts of legislation. And I start with the first one. The first legislative act shall start as follows: ‘The period from 28 June to 6 July shall be declared a bank holiday’. The banks are closing. Yes, sir. Signs: Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, Ministers, members of the Ministerial Council, Ioannis Drasakis, Nikolaos Voutsis, George Stathakis, Aristides - Nikolaos - Dimitrios Baltas, Panagiotis Lafazanis - he - goes, Nikolaos Paraskevilos, Ioannis Varoufakis, Panagiotis Skourletis. I don't read it all. That's how the banks closed down and made that clear today. I note that the first three legislative acts, which we are bringing today to ratify here, are delayed and should have been ratified before the elections. Why weren't they ratified before the elections? Okay, that's not what we care about. It's a legal matter. Besides, the banks are closed down. But why didn't you bring them before the election? Because if, ladies and gentlemen, you brought them before the elections, it would be a colleague of mine or I here in Step and we would tell you, "You closed the banks" and it wouldn't work. Well, that story is over. I note that in these first five legislative acts there is also an increase in VAT on hotels, another great success of SYRIZA Government! And in Article 5 - and I would ask, if I may, that I have an answer, Minister, to that - this is the famous assignment of Mr Varoufakis to some advisors with outrageous fees. We have asked questions on this matter. If there's an answer at some point at the time of the bill, I'd really appreciate it. So now I am going to use other words, so that you do not blame me, to refer to the consequences of the closure of the banks. I am not going to mention either the suffering of people in the tails or the loss of dignity or the fact that people's deposits are caught in the banks or the suffering of businesses. I will not go into all the things that the SYRIZA rapporteur calls'solved problems' today. I shall refer to the European Commission's report with the autumn financial forecasts of 2015. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned report, which is located in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] "The increased uncertainty and the introduction of capital controls lead the Greek economy back to a recession of 1.4% in 2015 and 1.3% in 2016. The Greek economy had a positive course in 2014, but the unsuccessful completion of the programme, the referendum and the closure of banks, like the restrictions on capital, increased uncertainty and aggravated the prospect of growth. Capital control will have long-term effects on the economy.” I leave all the other negative forecasts for the primary balance, for growth, for unemployment. After all, we have the budget in front of us, which we will begin to discuss tomorrow. I continue with other words, that is, with the quarterly report of the State Budget Office. I am presenting this report, as is the next one, for the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament Department of Stenography and Practice.]] "The course of Greek exports was also in the first semester. The decline in exports is expected to be higher for the second half due to the impact of capital controls. The imposition of capital controls even today causes distortions in the production and purchase of products..." etc. Let’s go to the OECD half-yearly report: “The increased uncertainty and the introduction of capital controls have increased uncertainty and aggravated the prospect of growth”. Here again, there is the amazing situation in which the economy has arrived and in which it will remain in the coming years. So these are the consequences of the first five legislative acts. I hope it has been made clear that we are not going to vote on this. Don't expect it. The responsibility for this act is for you to take it by your vote. I note that with the new need to recapitalise the banks you have increased the cost for taxpayers, you have increased the debt, you have increased the damage to shareholders, Greek and foreigners, and with the reduction in the value of the shares you have caused other damage to the public. As far as legislative acts are concerned, six and seven. Obviously, Mr President-in-Office, this is why the legislative acts are, in the event that there is an extreme disaster in weather. Obviously, that's why the legislative acts are! It's not to close the banks, so obviously we'll vote for this, just like the next one. Let's go see the ship you complained about. You have done well and put a ship for the immigrants and you have done well for doing so by means of an act of legislation. You know what, though? It's not the single act, it's counting. This is part of a more comprehensive immigration policy that you have recently implemented. This is the ship. It is what I say'slow tango'. Indeed, after you have done everything wrong, after the Minister responsible told us what he said to us, since you have now made an agreement to host fifty thousand refugees, without having money to do the infrastructure and without having where to put them, as part of this immigration policy, you have also put a ship. Yes, sir! Warm congratulations! And I continue: the Prime Minister has gone to Turkey - this is the Prime Minister who does not know that we have a maritime border and is not sure what our islands are exactly - where he did exactly what? Was the National Anthem tolerated playing, waving us, and was it all embarrassing or smiling when his conspiracy was speaking? Did he bring us back the wonderful and long-lived hot spots at the border to keep us quiet? No, he didn't bring us back. Plus, he also caused a diplomatic incident with the Cypriots. Do not expect us to wash away your policy, which is absolutely disastrous in this area. I'm on it. Article 9: Okay, this is an act of the legislative content of the Staff Government, which is about local government, where, in fact, admittedly - and the CEDEFOP has said so - you do some positive things. We shall vote on that. I would remind you, of course, that the first act of legislation, with which you took the collar, was the act of legislation with the forced internal lending, with which you certainly deprived all of its resources from local government. So, big evil, little good with this act of legislation. In the case of Article 10 and the legislative act concerning the transfer of pupils, I would like to mention a difference between us. We did that, too. The rapporteur rightly said that we must all deal with the chronic problems of education together. We will therefore vote on this legislative act, because you have done it to solve a problem which concerns the Greek family, a problem which has to be solved urgently and immediately, and of course we must all find a solution together for the future. I read here what you said when we did the same. Mrs Sakorafa was SYRIZA's rapporteur. I read its statement on the vote on the same legislative act a year earlier. "We will find ourselves in the unpleasant position, although we would like to be positive, precisely because it concerns students and the serious economic problem which causes families the issue of the transport of pupils by bus, to say 'no'. So that's our difference. We, because, as Mrs Sakorafa said, are about students and the serious economic problem it poses to their families, we will say 'yes'. This is the non-sterile opposition. Article 11: This article is also of interest because it relates to the Occupied Territories. That's what we've been through. It was the privatization that began in the government of Samara with the racetrack. We've discussed this. This is interesting, because these acts of legislation have three extensions to resolve the issue of the WIPO. And why is that interesting? Because these extensions, apart from showing the inability to plan, are essentially - because we all know that this has been because you wanted to bring it, but Mrs Constantopoulos was not leaving you - show your idealism in this very important matter, the issue of privatization. And I am going to turn to the last act of legislation on education. This time, rapporteur, you have given us an explanation on this matter. I have to tell you this: the Prime Minister at some point said that there would be a national dialogue on education. Yes, sir. You have a view of what councils should do. I have a different view, obviously, as in almost all the issues that we are discussing. I have a different point of view. Come on, let's talk about it. Uh, we didn't talk about it. You did an act of legislation in which you changed it as you wanted. Where's democracy in this? In what? On education? Where was the emergency? The emergency was that you definitely wanted to change it! That was the emergency! So don't tell us about democratic processes and dialogue, especially in the field of education. There was no disaster in Evros here, Madam President. This is a disaster in education, which, unfortunately, you are going to finish. And in order not to abuse time, I told you that today I tried to use non-discriminatory words, words of your own, words of independent sources. I shall therefore close with the words of the anointed Greek people in relation to this bill. The people say: 'Whoever cooks lies finds them on his plate'. That's what's happening. I would tell you under normal conditions, "Good appetite", but, unfortunately, you also serve this dish to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Tsipras, as a Separatist Anti-Population from 2012 to 15 December 2015, because the New Democracy used its legislative acts as a corollary, said that it is an extremely anti-democratic act by the government to legislate by legislative acts and that the acts of law-making are commands of the pharmacists, the enemies of the patron, the troikas, those who are working to dismantle the pluralist, who want to obtain the wealthy sources, to take everything from Greece and through their people, the New Democracy - PASOK, are using the legislative acts, so that they can be facilitated in the dissolution to their homework. The Prime Minister the first time in his first programming statements in January, he said and stressed that this unacceptable tactics of previous governments, the tactics of legislative acts and other practices will not continue. We see that! Today, with today's bill, we see how much it has kept the so-called few months - not many years - back. And soon after that, the legislative acts began to come at the beginning. Because, if you remember, at first there was no parliamentary work at all. The days passed, the weeks passed and SYRIZA did not bring anything to parliament. It's been twenty days and an act of legislation came, then came after a month and went by saying. As the time passed, however, and the comrades learned what it is like to rule this country, they began to bring the acts of legislation as a machine gun, one after the other, on all matters. And on matters which were serious, but could have been solved, even though the government was serious - as was the previous coup d'état - and on other issues, which, because they were left to their fate, at the discretion of every minister, who did what he wanted, actually brought them to the last minute, they could not do differently. Today we are called upon to ratify dozens of legislative acts. And this is the greatest proof of how inconsistent, of how false you were, gentlemen of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks - do not forget the Independent Greeks, who are the pillars of this famous government! - in order to carry out your "good" work. We see that the first five acts of legislation have to do with capital control issues, with the support of various good institutions and institutions, the ECB and various others, which, until first and foremost, SYRIZA had them in the extract. In addition to all the rest, you managed to close the banks for the first time in Greece. Yeah, that's your job. If it were the New Democracy, the New Democracy might have done so. But that fell out in your hands, so you no longer have any excuse to blame others for what they have done in the past or intend to do in the future. Truly, you who are supposed to be - because in the end, only "supposed" are, in the end, nothing on the substance - the enemies of globalisation, as you said, the capitalists and all those who will bring suffering to our homeland, but elsewhere, you are finally the best, most persuasive organs. You managed what banks could not do for years now, which in any way begged citizens to use plastic money, cards. All of a sudden, you have succeeded in doing so within a few days, closing everything by means of an act of legislation. And with bully-like or not the Greeks, without having the right to challenge it, you forced them to make almost all transactions by means of plastic money and not have the right to take their money from the banks. That was the greatest gift you could make to many bankrupt banks. We have 12 legislative acts. And what are legislative acts? They are, in accordance with the Constitution, a way of legislating in exceptional circumstances and taking place abusively - I repeat 'abuse' - since it does not legislate in this House, but in the government. Of these twelve Acts of Legislative Content, only the sixth, which concerns the floods in Evros, fulfils these conditions. That is why it will be the only one that we will be voting in favour of. Because neither the bright-speakers of the New Democracy - and they had many of them - had no idea that they could bring about retroactive and massive acts of legislation, as you are doing today. This proves, not only the size of the deception that you have sold to the Greek people, but also the size of your inadequacy, after you have come to bring four legislative acts on the same subject - banks and capital cuts - by correcting yourself. So, with this unacceptable process of modernization, it's supposedly a European state - our horror! - you pass through the swimming pool of Siloam of the legislative acts and a number of secondary arrangements, which, apart from suspects, are also declaring your real intentions and the supposed moral advantage of the Left that you are proud to represent. In this way, together with the permitted banking transactions, you are also passing full immunity in the performance of their duties by criminal, civil, administrative or other liability, with the exception of the Secretary and the members of the Banking Authorisation Committee and the members of the Support Group, as well as the suspension for a period of two years of the criminal prosecution of those members of the Committee, established by the Act of Legislation of 14 July 2015, Article 4. So, do you think of democracy and the independence of justice, which you are supposed to defend and cut for it? Accordingly, taking advantage of them, it is assumed that exceptional economic conditions, namely those created by the creative accounting of various unrelated figurines that you presented to us as lighters and saviors of this country on the back of the Greek people, are enacted in favor of interests, which have only changed cloaks and of green leafs. In particular, Article 5 gives the possibility of direct delegation by decision of the Governing Council for economic policy, by way of derogation from any general or specific provision, to experts on issues relating to the negotiation of the Government with the European Stability Mechanism, the European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Who are these experts? What have you paid by direct assignment to them and what will you continue to pay? Do you remember Mr. Liou, who, after Mr. Varoufakis left, suddenly came out in newspapers everywhere saying: "I have made an oral agreement with a hundred and twenty thousand euros a month." Are various types, Mr. Liu, included in this act of legislation? Is it included in the 'experts' known foreign companies, which are supposed to provide unfavorable services in our country, as Mr Varoufakis said, while they are paid unharmedly by ghost contracts such as these? Will you once say, for a change, the truth to Greek citizens, so they can finally understand why and who have brought them to this point? In the same unacceptable way that proves your inability and inadequacy, you are trying to load your ideological obsessions and your ideas once again to the citizens. In Article 8, you authorize the Minister of State, i.e. the right hand of Tsipras, to enter into contracts for renting fixed-term seagoing vessels with three-month or legal persons, to deal with exceptional feeding, subsistence, medical care and transport, not refugees - look out! - but migrants until 31-12-2015. In fact, these contracts shall be concluded by way of derogation from the relevant provisions and shall be subject to the budget of the Secretariat-General for Coordination. In other words, your permanent incompetence, as well as the previous ones, faced the so-called 'humanist crisis' with the crowds of illegal immigrants, who go uncontrolled within the Greek territory. And we see what happened in the past few months, we see the results of this inconsistency of yours. You cannot support, by any deterrent means, the sovereign states, the Greek borders, land and sea. The sea borders exist, for those who didn't know it or if they don't know it, to finally find out. And sticking to your old perceptions, you can't manage the situation, turning the country into a human warehouse. Proof that you are not supposed to apply international conditions to refugees, as you like to say to gold the pill, but you know that at least one 10% are refugees. And as I said, in the wording of the Legislative Content Act you refer to immigrants rather than refugees. For anyone, in other words, who wants to come to Greece, to go to Europe or elsewhere, to pay their expenses for food, accommodation, anything else, which he has never had in his home country or at his best times. And the 15,000,000 and only for the period from 10/8 to 31/12 is available. And a little comment on the closed borders: What happened? Yesterday, neither a single immigrant nor a refugee came to Mytilini as by magic. Suddenly he stopped? Did it because our Skopje favourite neighbors decided to put a fence too and make it difficult for them to pass through and go where they want? Is it because the measures in Europe followed by the terrorist acts by jihadists, many of whom were slapping on Greek territory - others entered, others came from Italy to Patras, went back - their slaves, our friends Turks stopped sending them? Did you see that as soon as things got tightened up, did the intangible illegal immigration stop, the influx of refugees, immigrants? Tell them what you want. Therefore, the policy of closed borders brings results. That, for the various naive and ignorant people to know, weeping at the sight of a family or someone else. And those who cry and resent the refugees and immigrants, let them see in Syria some people who live, fight, marry in broken churches, give their souls for the holy and loyal of their own tribe. And see what the Greeks did in 1940, who stayed here and fought. The same incompetence and ideology that costs the Greek people is the result of the legislative act, Article 9. SYRIZA supported all election campaigns in the symbolism of the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance and noticed that they should not be fired, but many of them should be transferred to organic posts and made secretaries in the courts. That's a very good transfer. But similarly, there's no school-students missing. To this end, the "philolic" government, which is supposedly cut off for the money of the retired and the microprofessional, is costing EUR 35,000 for the recruitment of cleaners under contract, while we had cleaners that we made secretaries in the courts. This is indeed a creative accounting, which no one can question on the left. We are all talking about an unacceptable, outrageous set of provisions, which have been dressed up in the garments of legislative acts and even retrospectively, and in fact it is a number of provisions which do not correspond either in the sense, as defined in the Constitution, of the legislative act. And they prove once again that SYRIZA is, not just a Memorandum Party, not the natural continuity of the New Democracy and PASOK, but the main party of popular deception! The Greek people have shown that they were ready for the difficult, when they were against all and against all, against capital controls which you imposed, in the referendum they voted against 62% 'no', and they are ready to clash with everyone for what they thought they were right, for which they were tampering with: for the purpose of claiming the principal loan, for the accounting control of the debt, for deleting the majority of the debt, so that the Greeks do not pay this capital - Turkish inspiration - tax, HNPH. However, you have also brought many other taxes, as we will see in the next few days in the debate on the budget in the House, which correspond to measures of 6 billion to the Greek people, who are already being horrificly tested. Clearly we will vote against the bill and our parliamentary representative will be placed for one act of legislation and we will discuss a second, whether we will vote'residents' or 'no'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Panayotar. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, obviously the SYRIZA communication is based on the fact that the place needs a serious and responsible Civic Opposition. But he forgot - and you will allow me to complete it - that primarily he needs a serious, responsible and competent government and everything shows that he does not have it. How many people now disagree that the Tsipras - Kammenos - among others - a so-called "left" government, with its policy and the role of the left-wing slander? It slands on the left of the authorities, which is curtailed by the peculiar nationalist ideologies, which it has adopted and the economic choices, always at the expense of the citizens, the Left of the social struggles, who are now blocking and spraying the participants with chemicals, the Left of the consultation, which has been replaced by the closed debate between so-called "shoulders" and the dialogue, whose competence Mr. Tsipras has now entrusted the Ministry of Public Order, but is still claiming it, as well as Mr. Kammenos, to exercise it as Minister of National Defence. Mr Tsipras as a opposition was convinced for five years that burden sharing and taxing the oligarchy would be fair. Now, as a government, he forgot about it. It exaggerates low and medium-income. Not a single measure has been taken for the so-called 'globalism of wealth'! It continues to refer to the need for productive reconstruction and hits every creative and productive place. The SYRIZA Government - ANEL seems to have a conscious choice of hitting the agricultural sector or at least small and medium-sized farmers. He had also claimed the exclusiveity of social sensitivity, as former colleagues remember. And today he is showing incredible social analgesia for the weak, for the disabled and even for children with disabilities, because - as we have denounced many times - forty-four open-minded structures for a thousand four hundred disabled children have been without funding since January. It is the analgesia that was reflected in the law brought here by Mr. Spirtzis and was passed, that from 1-1-2016, if the ministries are not in line with their obligations to pay the corresponding sums, their workers will download from the buses their disabled or other vulnerable groups who are entitled to travel through public transport. Incredible law! Didn't we shake the hand of the man who wrote him? Instead of downloading from their chairs the unrelated and incompetent ministers who will not do their duty - as has not been done this year, have they not paid the OSCE the corresponding amounts for the transfer of the MEDs - will they lower the disabled? And do you dare, colleagues, and do you support this policy? "The interruption of electricity to poor households has been made by political sabotage". We hope that this will be the case, because there has been no need for political sabotage to mislead this government. She's doing it on her own. However, Mr. Tsipras also took up the 'robbing' of the moral advantage of the practices of ministers setting up shops for jobs and business, and others who, while perpetuating acts for which there have been sentences to former ministers for over seven years, such as the 'both obscure', are doing that there is nothing wrong with them and that they have already been convicted. The government that would fight for tax evasion drastically reduces fines for tax evasion. The new "writing" announced these days abolishes the autonomous fines and fines for fake documents corresponding to VAT of up to EUR 50,000. It seems that the empire of power for Mr. Tsipras and his close group is superior to ideologies and fair policies. For five years you have been telling consciously lies to the Greek people, lies with the programme of Thessaloniki, lies combined with the great fraud of the referendum and allegedly "no", lies with the parallel program and continue on the same line. You received a country that had managed to stand on its feet after a major - indeed - crisis that hit it, but which has been able since autumn and then took the next major step towards growth. And then, with a micro-participatory purpose, don't make things up, you put a block in the election of the President of the Republic. You've taken over power. You led the country back to deficits, again to recession, to increased unemployment, to new uncertainty. I have said before that the only election commitment kept was that of Panos Kammenos, who pledged to teach the child with the broken left hand to write well with the right hand. He made it with the above. Alex's only "excellency" in the control, in evaluation, is this in the 'right-handed culture' class. In the last few days and after the criticism of his resignation, following the announcements and decisions made by Mr Sakellaridis and Mr Panagoulis, he has taken the political agreement project, but he has not had the courage to address it directly to those who wanted to address it, but has asked for mediation. But anyway, the method doesn't change the substance, it doesn't change anything. The obstacle to any understanding has been shown to be Mr Tsipras, of course, from the attitude he has held in the past and has stubbornly refused as a opposition to any agreement, but also today as a government that should have sought it, because it is an advantage to the government of national understanding and not to anti-population over time and practically. He puts obstacles: The unreliability he has shown, the change of policy, the fact that he dawns every day and we do not know which social group is in the target, where these equivalents will be found, if they drink whisky or vodka, those who beat the wine, or what other purposes they serve through the supposed obligations of the country - invoke the troika to impose policies within the country, which are not the country's obligations - the arrogance that they have shown, the overright policy. You have been overrun, colleagues in the New Democracy. Economics, unfortunately, have entered a dead end. But there is a wider issue about insecurity and uncertainty. In the context of the policy pursued, if the government wanted to reach agreement, it should be addressed first to the other major party in the New Democracy. According to the election results, the two parties were voted on by the citizens for government, regardless of the fact that the 50 seats bonus takes the first party. Mr Tsipras has to give answers and tell us at the end of the day, with a distance from the facts, if he eventually revises some of the issues that he sold to the Greek people in the previous period, if he revises the attitude and practice that followed as Anti-Policy, if he acknowledges that after Genaris, with the so-called strategy - and allow me - 'we will change Europe to change Greece', which took the mandate of the Greek people, not only has he completely failed, but has charged the country with an inappropriate loan of 86 billion and the citizens with a very heavy burden of budgetary measures, which starts with 14 billion. Let Mr Tsipras tell us today that the Thessaloniki programme and the parallel programme in September were simply a pretext for the political deception of the citizens and the implementation of the vote. Let Mr Tsipras tell us today if he adopts the arrogant and cynical attitude of some of his members and ministers who, in response to citizens' criticisms, say "but, when you voted in September, you knew what Mr Tsipras has signed, you knew what we had committed." Mr Tsipras tell us if he assumes political responsibility for the disastrous results of the referendum and the closure of the banks, which has also led to the need for a new recapitulation. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, your final achievement is to get those who you called for years of international speculators the Greek banks against a lentil. I have a comment here, with all due respect for the institution of the President of the Republic. Mr Pavlopoulou, however, gave us this right, having expressed a political opinion and every political view is, in our view, open to criticism. He expressed a political opinion and criticised - and in our view unfairly - the political decisions of the 2012 government, when he had voted for them, at his meeting with an international player, with the chairman and representative of the employers in the European Economic and Social Committee. Honestly, if he had said that on the inside, I wouldn't have made any comment. Unfortunately, this act by the President harms Greece. And after criticising and even unfairly as I said about the 2012 acts, which he voted on, we are very much awaiting the President's view on the sale of the banks, which took place in the past few days. The government was handed over to the troika once again and the government lost 20 billion, which was the value of banks' shares in January. The insurance funds lost 2 billion and some more billions of small investors, which were not allowed to participate in the recapitalisation. Questions about possible responsibilities and responsibilities are many and will certainly be sought. It is important, therefore, that we do not have time to take on legal defence from the point of view of those responsible, especially when there is an incompatibility with the law. If the sale were made by another government, Mr. Tsipras would talk about crime against the people. Now he did it himself. Huge damage to the country. Invoice of the saving of the deposits. It could not be achieved otherwise, just by selling out. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, something else has happened. A great opportunity was lost for "aggressive" recapitalisation of banks, so that they could be immediately able to secure liquidity in the real economy. And this is referred to in the future and what is referred to in the future, which could give even a few elements and incentives for economic relaunching, is damage to the country and its future generations. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is taking place on the occasion of the ratification of twelve MDGs, with many of which the Tsipras - Kammenos government has implemented the above policy I have set out, in the interpretation of Parliament and the people, in the interpretation of the political forces. And today, after the feats, they come to retrospectively get our approval. No, gentlemen! We do not conclude, we do not consent, we give you no forgiveness!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u9	Mr Vardalis has the floor from the JRC for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with two issues, mainly from the position of the SYRIZA rapporteur at the beginning and end. The rapporteur said to us: 'We are legislating on legislative acts and no one is happy about it'. In fact, he invited us to see the substance and not the type, what they were trying to solve with these legislative acts. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, we must look at the substance. But now look at this. You have also defamated this way of legislating where it is necessary. Of course, there may be cases where, by means of a legislative act, an immediate urgency can be resolved. But you've done it industry! That's the problem with you. Basically, you legislate in this way, as well as urgent and urgent. The second thing I want to do is this. In conclusion, the SYRIZA rapporteur called on the other parties - obviously this appeal concerned the parties that voted for the third memorandum - in consultation, 'why things have made it difficult and we have to come to an agreement', as he said. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the escalating of this anti-French, anti-French policy, the more these well-known consensus calls will come to light. They're not original anyway. This call is not only about the parties who voted for the third memorandum. In our opinion, it is particularly addressed to the people. You call on him, with this appeal, to put back, allegedly, on them - within your introductory - 'national' objectives, namely to consent to old and new measures that will slaughter his rights. In our view, this is the essence of the consent you are asking for. Irrespective of the bazaars, how the other parties that voted for the third memorandum will respond, there is, in essence, the common basis for understanding, and this basis is to serve the strategy of capital. Against this alliance, therefore, that is, in the strategy of capital, the people should build their own alliance. Workers, farmers and self-employed to fight, fight against capital, against monopolies, against their wolf alliances. Ladies and gentlemen, by entering into the substance of the issues raised by the draft law and referring to the first five acts concerning capital controls, I would say the following. Of course, as the previous speakers have already said, we can see how we have reached this situation, but what have they told us? The government told us that it was mainly the imperialist institutions, because they pushed the situation to the ground, and they could resolve the issue differently, apart from the fact that it was the neoliberal management of the last forty years, in response to the opposition parties, with a peak of the New Democracy and the PASOK, who told us that they had a number of arguments - the last nine-month management of SYRIZA - ANEL. Both of you are looking for the cause in the political structure alone, leaving out what is happening at the level of the economy. You are consciously disconnecting the economy from politics in our view. Unfortunately, however, you cannot avoid reality. In times of capitalist economic crisis, this rotten capitalist system, without the destruction of overcompensated capital, whether in the form of controlled bankruptcy or in the form of uncontrolled bankruptcy, cannot overcome the crisis and go through a new development phase. But you know the important role of banking monopolies in modern capitalism. That's why you gave all these billions for his rescue. The recent capitalist economic crisis has shown that banking groups are only giants with clay legs. Time does not allow for deeper analyses, but we have all now known that this structure, in times of economic capitalist crisis, collapses like a paper tower. The share prices are crumbling at the tartars, so are bond, company and state prices. In conditions of uncertainty, banks stop lending productive activity, resulting in accelerating the crisis, while insecure loans are escalating. The result is the accumulation of enormous losses. These losses were a form of the destruction of overcompensated funds. The round of mergers of small and medium-sized Greek banks was a result of the crisis and the need to find new funds to deal with the consequences of the crisis. This need also serves the recapitalisation of the banks. The imposition of capital controls is the same objective. In the budget report - as the debate will begin tomorrow - the government says that the outflows of deposits amounted to EUR 41.3 billion from December 2014 until today and that the reduction in outflows has been considerably mitigated by the imposition of withdrawal restrictions. So, here's why you wanted these restrictions to stop these deposit outflows, that's to save the banks. All of you - but, all of you - drink water in the name of free movement of capital. The need to recapitalisation the banks came from the very operation of the capitalist system and Greece's participation in the European Union. One of its basic rules is the free movement of capital. Profits hunting contributed to unequal growth between sectors of the economy, as well as among capitalist states. Branches have been developed because they have brought profits, and others have shrinked, despite their strategic importance to satisfy people's needs. The distance between rich and poor has increased. Huge capital left banks for investment in other countries because they earned a higher percentage of profit. This outflow of funds exacerbated the liquidity problems of banking groups. From this point of view, the huge outflow of deposits we have seen in recent months has led precisely to the need for banks to increase their capital adequacy. This problem of the outflow of funds you want to solve by imposing restrictions on banking transactions. But this effort to rescue banking groups has had and has tragic consequences for the people's strata. For the rescue of the banks, all these super-government debts have been charged to the people's backs, so the robbery of labour and popular incomes for the benefit of large capital as a whole. The tragic consequences of the insurance funds from the previous recapitalisations, the known PSI, are known. A characteristic example is the engineering fund, the CSMEDE, which has already decided to give another 500 million - it has already lost 2.5 billion - to recapitalise the Attica Bank. It angers even more the opening of the road for first home auctions. The capital controls you put mainly concerned the lives of the people's household, the pensioner, the professional and the self-employed. Afterwards, banking restrictions on transactions were not a disaster that hit everyone, it did not hit them all. The imposition of a restriction on banking transactions has rapidly aggravated the lives of the people's populations, who have seen a reduction in the available income for consumption, a failure to buy basic items such as drugs that exceed the minimum, great delays in the collection of wages and pensions. At the same time, the restrictions have led to drastic losses for self-employed and small businesses, which, in addition to cuts in turnover, have also faced difficulties in remaining abusive. On the other hand, these restrictions have hit much less and no big capital, which has and has potential for payments through foreign banks, while the approval committee in question has facilitated transfers it considers necessary for large capital. There was an opportunity to open the road to get the plastic money into our lives. This precursor with plastic money, i.e. the introduction of all transactions through bank cards, is nothing to benefit the people. People's strata have nothing to gain. You're saying you're going to hit the tax evasion. However, taxes on workers are retained by the employer and paid by employees. The real problem for workers and pensioners is the inability to pay taxes by people of hardship, since their tax is so great that they are no longer able to cope with it. Another is the real reason for this premier with bank cards. The introduction of compulsory handling of all transactions through banks means that all money is concentrated on the banks, which will be managed for their benefit, by speculation, but also for the benefit of big capital. Already all pensions are paid through the banks - you are laughing, Mr President - the public sector wages too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u11	I can't follow you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u12	The private sector's payroll through banks has also been established. The same for the insurance funds. It's a measure to strengthen capital. You're telling us you're going to catch the tax evasion, and with this money you're going to have a better social policy. First of all, if you wanted to do social policy, you would have taxed the big capital and had neither had you nor had you. This legally evade and prepares him new privileges to invest. So, that's not your purpose anyway. You're going to catch the neighborhood's small-timer, the self-employed, the tavern. They're the ones you're targeting. Besides, state revenue goes for repayment of loans, debts and capital subsidies, capital investment and not social policy. If you had such a purpose, you would not have introduced the automatic cut-off for people's needs when the budget is not surplus. There are, of course, other objectives - it is not the time to mention them - such as the general monitoring of the people, their consumer preferences and others. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps some people are asking themselves: 'But does the coup d'état have no responsibility for this situation?' Of course, it has serious responsibilities for the deterioration of the situation that our people continue to experience. The reports of extortion, but also the whole confrontation of the government with the European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, are not related to the fulfilment of popular needs, but to how the needs of bank monopolistic groups and capitalist development will be better served. But it also matters how you prepared this whole situation. You proceeded with a generalized bankruptcy of funds from the entire public sector in order to cover the state's credit obligations for the next period, i.e. to pay creditors up to antenna. You've sealed everything. You have all shown this as a national task, because that is how the government is counting on negotiating with the European Union. That's what you've been telling us. This in itself shows that you didn't have and you don't intend to clash with these imperialist institutions. From this point of view, your responsibilities are enormous. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] In my time, with reference to a number of articles - in any case we will be more comprehensive in the debate on the articles - I would like to say the following: with regard to Article 6 of the Act of Legislative content on the recovery of Evros, we agree with the need. The government, however, bears enormous responsibility for the fact that the damage to the impurities from last year's floods has not been restored. Minister, we have been back in winter, and today we are talking about having to know that more than 25% of the impurities have not been restored. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Madam President. In this legislative act, because we shall vote 'yes' on the substance of the issue we agree on. As far as immigrants are concerned, there has been talk. It's not enough time for me to expand. We disagree with the authorisation, in any case, to the Minister of State for the chartering of waterways, etc. In our view, the government should assume its responsibilities for the drama of migrants and refugees and their promotion safely at the final destination. I would like to dwell on two main issues relating to OTAs. With this act of legislation, the government leads municipalities with a major economic problem in lending to balance their budgets. That's the point. Apart from the fact that you are not going to solve any problems in this way because the credit rating of these municipalities is non-existent - no bank, that is to say, it is not going to give them a loan - you are actually loading the burdens on the backs of the people, because any loans these municipalities take will be charged through the municipal fees on their backs. The second question that concerns this legislative act is school cleaners and I would like to say a word. This legislative act updates the transfer of responsibility for cleaners by contract to the municipalities from the school year 2016-2017. While giving an extension for this year's school year, the municipalities will have to deal with it next year. So, in short, what will happen in practice? The municipalities will reopen these positions. Those working cleaners who have been working so far will be fired. So we will have thousands of redundancies and the municipalities will either hire five-months or eight-months to solve the problem or give it to private insurance companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I sincerely feel awkward about having a special speaker in a bill which includes not one or two or three, but twelve legislative acts, perhaps most of the consolidated legislative acts in one law. Indeed, who would have thought that the government of the first and second left would have taken a vote in less than one year of any legislative acts that have never come? Who? You, who, while you were in the opposition, blamed the previous governments for the catastrophe of Parliament, for a junta with a parliamentary cloak, for 'Tsolakoglu', for talking about procedures for the destruction of parliamentary democracy, for parliamentary coups and anti-democratic interventions, for you who refused to vote on legislative acts relating to the payment of money for the transfer of students, for the suspension of first home auctions, for the financial control of the OTAs, for measures to speed up the absorption of the ESDP, legislative improvements to overtime payments to workers, for the legal improvement of the recognition of qualifications for graduates of colleges and so forth, for many things, you who designed the Memorandum and Separate, by the committees and plenary! Aren't you ashamed to come today and ask for a consensus on legislative acts that have been adopted before the September elections? Rather, these 'left' acts of legislation are good and moral, in contrast to the previous ones! Now, all of a sudden, it's all right! Mr. Kammenos forgot about Mr. Cholacoglu? Finally, with a ministerial chair, some forget and sell everything. However, it is not just the kind of legislation, ladies and gentlemen, it is also its content. We are again vindicating the results of the undeniably "exquisitely successful" negotiation of Mr Varoufakis, the negotiation that led to the closure of the banks, that fatal night that celebrated on the steps of the Great Maximos, the government at the time, proud of its terrible "success" to close the banks and jeopardise the money of the Greek people! Because of this schizophrenic and dangerous negotiation, five months after the Greek economy still counts its wounds, which after the referendum - "paradia" you were forced, please, to accept an agreement much worse than the original one you rejected, the Yunker agreement. And for this dramatic situation you are solely responsible for you, you and no one else. We must finish with the fairy tale that the previous governments are supposedly to blame for everything rather than you. Of course, responsibility has never been given to two major parties, PASOK and New Democracy, as a whole for the situation that has arrived in the country, but - believe me - your only achievements these nine months make you, not just to compete with them worthwhilely, but - having regard to the time limits - you have exceeded them a great deal. But there is also a second issue here. Whether you are completely unrelated to negotiation and international relations and sold seaweed for silk ribbons to the Greek people, that you would have been better negotiable, because the previous ones were retreating to the complaints of lenders or indeed had a plan to destroy the banking system. Many of your executives have confessed that the bank holiday was deliberately done. The former Minister of Finance, Mr. Varoufakis, had said in an article entitled "Leave" that the bank's leftover is the only viable solution in 2013. You did so after the last recapitalisation. With your answerable successes, you have led to the delinquency of the banks, but also to their dramatic shrinkage! Today we are talking about, the percentage of the Financial Stability Fund in the banking sector has been limited to 26.5%, causing enormous damage to the public, while most of the remaining 73.5% are now controlling foreign investors, private individuals, the well known to all of us, what Mr Tsipras wanted, in election only, to keep away from the country. Hedge funds, you know, didn't buy shares of Greek banks and red loans because they suddenly loved us. They got into bank growth, because they're looking forward to making profits out of red loans. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you have not only given the keys to the banks, but - even worse! - you've given them to speculative hedge funds, you're the'second-time left' government. You have achieved so much of this: in June 2014, the total value of bank shares on the stock exchange reached 37 billion euros, and today banks are worth less than 750 million euros. The 15 billion needs of this recapitalisation are almost exclusively your achievement. In the first quarter of 2015, the Greek banks announced EUR 74,5 billion of non-performing loans. After the recent tests, non-performing loans are now estimated at EUR 107 billion. Indeed, we have been very expensive in the 'Barafal' decent negotiation, with the full support of, of course, the Prime Minister and the entire government. The government's negotiating experiments, however, do not stop the economy. Apart from the shadow banking system, an army of shadow advisers is slowly being created. Article 5 provides that direct works may, by way of derogation from any general or special provision, be awarded by means of contracts of a fixed term of three months to distinguished experts, natural or legal persons, to financial, legal or economic persons, to support the negotiation of the Greek Government with the European Stability Mechanism, the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. Transparency, indecisiveness, interests, advisors and friends of Ministers, paid by the Greek people. Mr. Varoufakis left the Treasury, but apparently foreign consultants remain. Mr. Theocharis has asked you two written questions, asking you information on the matter. As far as we're concerned, no answer was given to him. Do you intend, Minister, to reply and inform the National Representation on this matter? But your irresponsibility doesn't stop there. It also continues to deal with the refugee problem. Article 8 reintroduces the possibility of concluding leasing contracts, chartering waterways to meet exceptional needs. Indeed, it is an emergency in the first quarter. However, the second and especially the third quarters, the need now ceases to be extraordinary and regular. And yet, you continue to treat the refugee issue amateurly. We count so many deaths in the Aegean Sea and you continue in the same pattern. Paragraph 4 of Article 9 provides for fixed-term contracts for school cleaners if the needs of school units per municipality are not met. Unpredictable needs for the government are school cleaners, safe transportation of pupils, assistant teachers. All these are unforeseen needs. We were impressed here by your rush to meet the needs of school units in cleaning staff, while we are at the end of November and still school units of general and vocational education are having problems with teachers and teachers. After all, we have told you for months that it takes timely planning to fill gaps in education. But you, through the then Minister, Mr. Varoufakis, completely dismantled the Greek economy, leading it to the rocks. Would there really be any reason for legislative action if the government were to do its work in this area as well? It is ironic, of course, that we are called upon to vote on this provision a few days after the ministerial decision on the signature of a hundred and sixty-five individual rental contracts for the cleaning of the buildings of the Ministry of Finance. It is the well-known old-fashioned pattern: We hire cleaners to the Ministry of Finance, we transport them to the Ministry of Justice, and we press the system with new needs for cleaners! But enough about the new party rule you're trying to impose. And let's come over and see an excellent example of provincialism, with which you approach one of the most important strategic advantages in the country, education. With Article 12, and more specifically with Article 6, you change the way the dean chooses. While under the previous law it was true that, as a dean, you may be elected as a first grade professor of HIO of the national or foreign state, with Greek citizenship and excellent knowledge of the Greek language, with recognized authority and important administrative experience, your act of legislation replaces it as follows: "The dean is elected as a first grade professor of the relevant institution". It's a clear regression. The disaster in education continues with established Greek scientists, professors at universities in Europe and the United States, to leave our country. They're coming to be added to the leak of new scientific staff, also known as Brain Drain. Recent examples are Ms. Kidi and Mr. Bertsimas, a professor at MIT, who resigned from the position of President of the Foundation Council at the University of Athens. Read Mr Bertsima's resignation letter. I am tabling it in the Minutes because, beyond its frustration, it shows what direction you want to turn the education of the country, despite your announcements of national dialogue, where it is supposed to be a long-term policy. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jasson Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Greece that closes to itself, Greece that does not want to keep up with international developments, is reflected in this very provision. What other conclusion can be drawn as a consequence of the abolition of the procedure for an international call for expressions of interest for the post of dean? Mr Baltas is very afraid he left the Ministry of Education, but his attitudes remain strong and are implemented by the illegal procedure which you complained of through legislative acts. Finally, Article 10 of the draft law regulates a number of issues for the start of the school year, which are nothing but an unpredictable need for legislation. If we need an extraordinary piece of legislation to start the school year at the same time, then I do not understand what the Constitution has to do with legislative acts. I would like to finish my speech with one comment. Do not think that you are getting away with the fact that the New Democracy is experiencing tragedy situations with inability to hold even internal party elections, but also because of the captains and client relations that characterize it. With new and old fireplaces, circles of mutual support and networks of contacts without ideological content, it was not for us in Potami that the alternative was found in Potami and we are entitled to the criticism we were exercising in it as a member of the old party system. In intentional terms, however, as I have explained in my speech, you are ruling in order to create a new party state, in exchange for continuous discounts in the proper and democratic functioning of institutions and in the individual freedoms, which so hypocritically you have denounced when you were opposition. You also want there to be no communication from the Greek universities with abroad, obviously because you support the return to education models like Hodja's Albania. But we cannot accept Greece of isolation and your own democracies. We are voting against the draft law in principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Kammen Dimitrios has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we are forced to take the view of us and you, as well as our viewers and voters, and those who are interested in attending the so important debates that we are having in the Greek Parliament, to explain the obvious and to redefinite the concept of common sense, to cut off the diet of Greek citizens the lotus and to reconstitute as the new couples who may go out or as in America who are remarried four and five times again. It's not bad, they're renewing their relationship. Here this relationship between the citizens and the Members of Parliament, with the Greek Parliament, has gone through so many difficult situations in recent years and we will have to redefined it once again. I am very happy to recommend to the national budget of 2016, because it is a first-class opportunity to tell all the truths, to give our analysis, our beliefs and, apart from political chips and micro-politicals, to see whether we can all together, as a single body, who has been given a mandate and have all sworn to protect the Constitution, the laws and the interests of the Greek citizens, see what is the interest of the Greek citizens and not see it through the light or the glasses of the small-party interests. The Independent Greeks have, from the very beginning, supported the government, not for chairs, but feels responsible. We were a relatively small party, with great resonance in the world. We've had too much stamina in the last ten months. It was also shown by the elections, despite the results - if you like - of the polls, which made us a big war, because they did not want this government to exist, with us as a pillar next to it and to govern and negotiate for seven, eight months and to renegotiate now. And I say this because the economy is basically about confidence and stability. Confidence in the system, in the state, in the institutions, in Parliament and stability in the economy, in the laws - I say very basic - and again in the political system, a stability which, if you like, is the one that moves the wheels of an economy, from the bank, the international network and even a business, each of us personally in his home and in his family. We are now coming to explain why this government has brought the twelve legislative acts. He did right. There was no alternative. We all know them very well, not of course what we saw in the media, if you like, and what we heard through the "radio claws". There was a great deal of effort, and the shortening of time brought about the need to vote on many legislative acts, so that this state can go forward whether it is about schools, whether it is about capital controls, whether it is about the Ministry of National Defence or anything else that is included in today's bill. From that point on, we now state that we are voting in favour of all acts at first instance. I'm going to sub-themes. I won't abuse time for good reason. There are too many of us, and I want to help colleagues too. I think the time has come for the previous government to apologise - and I am clear - to too many issues. Here, from wherever to catch the matter, the lies which are being heard are too much. But, as I said at the outset, let's let's let's just eat the lotus and eat something more healthy, if you like, Mediterranean food. The previous PASOK - New Democracy Government with a few DIMARs since 2009 and then destroyed the Greek economy. The numbers are relentless. He brought the non-performing loans from 13 billion in 2008 to 78.5 billion in 2014. From 13 billion to 78 billion! An apology has not been heard, which I think the voter of the New Democracy and any citizen would have appreciated very much. You must say, 'Children, there has been a problem' and you must assume a political responsibility. From 13 billion to 78 billion red loans - and I am not speaking with percentages, not to be confused now with the indicators - which include consumer, housing and business, it was the total disaster, assisted by the murderous PSI to the banks for 38 billion in 2012. As I explained last week in my previous suggestion, when a bank enlarges too much non-performing loans, the bank is forced to commit funds to cover these loans as precarious assets and to be able to have the least possible profits, because companies are listed. Don't get involved in a big analysis now. However, the commitment of these funds to the risky loans of 78 billion at the end of 2014 brought - if you like - the drying of banks from liquidity. Because these funds - if the economy were good, as the New Democracy colleagues particularly tell us - could also come out at the end of 2014. So from 13 billion to 78 billion. They've broken up the Greek economy. The figures are those and they do not question them. Secondly, as to how healthy the economy was, when we received it, I would say: 'State history', the success of Mr Samaras's successor, who was unable because of HPAI and because of the second change in government, with the restructuring of ministries to the people at the time, and for reasons of politicians - which we will not analyse at this time - the irresponsibility of this government, therefore, has brought the loan costs since September 2014, which were 7% - huge, was not small - to 12% in December. Let me remind you that by 6.5%, nearly 7%, we entered the Memorandum. We had 12% loan costs, the spreads we say, compared to the German bond lending cost in December 2014. What success are we talking about? The 78 billion of 13 red loans? From 7% to 12% the cost of borrowing? What success are we talking about? I will table in their minutes the relevant tables with developments in all the red loans, so that all my fellow Members and anyone who wants to study, year after year, how the disaster has evolved. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above tables, which are in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] What's he doing wrong with the economy? The Capital Controls are gone. The deposits that have left the Greek economy, due to PASOK - New Democracy, exceed EUR 120 billion. Whether we want it or not, almost 240 billion has reached under 120 billion. That may not tell anyone anything. But the deposits open up the gap, in relation to lending, with the loans given by the banking system every year, which have arrived and is almost to God, at 230 billion at this time, rather than one by one. And while there was a healthy system, the previous government, as I said willing, has arrived to extend the hole of red loans. He did that, too. For 78 billion, huge funds have been committed, which have not been put on the market, and the reduction in deposits has brought about the need for ELA. I'll tell you one truth. What's the truth? That when the deposit-allocation divide is widened, you're forced to borrow. And luckily, there was the Eurosystem, which first with 0.05% and later with 1.5% was able to cover this hole with the Government of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks. We have reached 89 billion in loans from the Eurosystem so that everything can be broken down. In other words, we at the moment managed to control funds at the same time as negotiating, so as not to take a programme which would end in November for 3.5 billion, without covering the IMF with the same measures. We as a government tried to fight politically - and not only - but also financially in the fora of Europe the internal war of our political opponents, who at that time did not understand the interest of Greece. They didn't even understand it at the first moment, when we took over the government in February 2015 and came against it and took the side of the people who wanted not to give us the 86 billion plaques. We are now going to this 86 billion magical figure, which everyone is talking about. They say: "The capital controls went in and you managed to get the worst loan of 86 billion, which we didn't need." I am tired, but I am glad to think that the responsibility we have as politicians is much greater than the mental tiredness that we, the new MPs, have to say the same and the same truths. Let us say this once again: The 86 billion, fortunately, was a plagiar. It is not a loan that has never been disbursed in Greece, will not be disbursed as a whole and is in a depth of three years. The truth of those who have not heard - and I am addressing the children who are watching us from the gallery to know - is that for the next three years Greece had a loan of EUR 54 billion that was due and we would go bankrupt again until August 2018. These loans, which expire over the next three years, have been created by the previous two governments. They were not created by us and they were not before 2008. They are new loans, I will call them 'immemorandum'. If we as a new government did not find the way to finance the loans of the previous governments, we would go bankrupt in the next three years, such as in the summer when we said that if we did not sign this contract, we would go violently to the drachma and the Greek economy would be dissolved with too many consequences. As a small parentheses I would like to mention the immigration, the effects of which - unfortunately, we are living in our country - you see all these days. You should all know - and those who are listening to us - that these 54 billion - I repeat very simply to understand everyone - ended in three years' time. What did we do with this infinitely bad deal? There's a committee of inquiry, if you'd like. Why did we get that loan and didn't go bankrupt in three years? We managed to pay the 54 billion in 32.5 years instead of 3 and instead of 4% interest rate to make it 1%. I am simply saying this, cod-end - I am sorry for the expression - but in net financial terms, in net present value, this ECU 54 billion loan is getting tired of 80%. It's like there's no 80% of the 54 billion. In other words, almost 40 billion of them do not exist. They've been deleted. This way we will also be able to restructure debt - first God - in the next six months thereafter, in the first quarter, four months, five months, 2016. Capital control came because we were just negotiating. No one has to read, but an informed citizen has to know some things. Let me remind you, then, that on 4 November 2014 the government of Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos signed, well at that time - we will not judge it now - the contract for the supervision of banks by the Eurosystem. As of 4 November 2014, the systemic Greek banks are not directly controlled by the Bank of Greece, which has only one supervisory role, but by the European Central Bank. In short, friend Stournaras has been reporting to Mr Draghi, who has been controlling our banks for eight months. We end up in July 2015, when we negotiate, because we do not want to destroy Greece with a five-month programme. I repeat that five months were given us the same terms as measures, but they did not give us the money for three years. They gave it to us until November. In other words, in July we would agree to the days we live today and have no money to pay the IMF, which would bankrupt us again. We have come, through a tough negotiation, to have Mr Draghi as the only weapon - I repeat that the banks are not controlled by Mr Stournara - to close the neck of the liquidity in the Greek banks. The Greek Government was forced, since it has no longer had its own currency, nor could it have entered the Mint - as Mr Lafazanis said - to print 200 billion or 54 billion to pay our obligations, to bear the control of capital, which was not our decision. I explained exactly what the decision was and whose responsibility it was. There's going to be a debt rescheduling. We are voting for all of this because we have fortunately managed to find a consensus with Europeans, namely to get 10 billion - we will not use it all - which is part of 86 to recapitalise the banks together with 2 billion, which you need to know is debt. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Madam President, I shall end. Thank you. That's not what anyone's telling you. But you must listen to them. In the next few months, if I'm not mistaken, Minister, about 1.8 billion of the IMF. You have not heard from anyone so far who will pay the debt to the International Monetary Fund, which expires in November and December. Nobody said where we'd get the money. We say'very nice, I don't like it'. But there is no alternative. This government took the money. Of the 86 billion you're going to hear, we won't use the 25 billion banks, because we don't need 25 billion for the recapitalisation. As you have learned, the money we need is less than 10 billion. This will go through and we will see what happens with the public debt, when it is disbursed and what is disbursed. And, at the same time, I would remind you that from 86 billion 54 billion was for the born obligations of previous governments. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We will see this week and the next day in the debate on the national budget. I close by saying that it is time to find all together a step in common, to have creative criticism, but not sterile criticism, without proof, for political reasons alone. To tell the truth in the world. The world is our own family, our children. And when we go out and talk, we should not be ashamed of what we say, because it's like talking to ourselves. We can't see our children and our friends and lie to them from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u17	You've finally covered your time, Mr. Cammene. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that from the above Western theories we are attending our meeting, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates, thirty students and students and three teachers from the third section of the Messology. We welcome you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Cavalellas has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Twelve legislative acts taken together. By who? Not by a reactionary government, but by a left-hand government. We're confused. We can't figure out what's going on. What's left, what's right, now, I think it's a matter of history to analyze it. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Georgios LABROYLIS]] You are calling on us, among other things, to ratify acts that took place on the night of 20 June 2015, namely to justify short-term bank holidays. So you are calling on us to ratify actions related to the national disaster, because the poor manipulations brought you the capital controls, with all the other things that have finally put the tomb of the Greek economy. Various apprentice magicians - and don't worry about what I'm saying - with anti-capitalist screams, with some marxist claws, were trying to convince us that much better days would come. But the people didn't see better days. He pays dearly the Left he said to all "no". You have found nothing positive to vote beforehand. Now you are asking for our vote, that is to say, to ratify all your incredible mistakes. Something I didn't understand is that it's forbidden to open an account to put money inside the bank, not get it, put it in. What's going on? I can't understand that. In any case, let us move on to the point. What you were horrific about - and you rightly burned them down - the legislative acts - which your own people, such as Mr Voutsis, used very hard phrases, talked about juntas, Mr Papadimoulis spoke even harder, I do not want to repeat what he said - now justifies us. You offer them to us with a left casing, with a left pin, as you like to say - we learned that as well. In any case, let us not repeat ourselves. The Greek people were here, they've heard, they know, believed in you, that you'd be different. You've made false promises to power. I don't want to lie with false promises. But neither the neo-democratics nor the PASOK MPs, because we are paying for their own mistakes today, too. Not only do I say 'theirs', but theirs too. The client system, let's say, their inability to deal with trade unions and trade unions. That's what we pay today. And now history repeats itself. One of the same. But let us see what these twelve acts of legislation are saying. As the SYRIZA rapporteur has already said on 10-11-2015, the first five legislative acts relate to capital control and bank holiday that you assured us that there was no way the banks would close and that "we are shielded", "we are not like Cyprus". But, on 27 June, you shut them down, banks, because every day we saw the leak, this terrible bleeding. So you forced the capital controls. The capital controls therefore had serious consequences for the Greek economy. By imposing controls, imports into the country had a huge decline. And of course, because the country did not produce anything - probably it did process - everything stopped. They stopped working the crafts. Greece has therefore recorded a decrease in exports, but also in imports. According to data from ‘COSCO’, there was a drop in container handling from July to October. In particular, 11.5% in October, over 16% in September, around 40% in August and 14% in July. This supposed negotiation has led to the depreciation of the stock exchange, the capitalisation of which now accounts for a minimum percentage of GDP. The stock exchange value of the banks collapsed. The Greek banks, immediately after the imposition of the controls, have come to an adverse position, failing to serve vital activities, essentially to cancel their objectives. Cash assets, however, and intermediaries were at risk, having been transferred to management accounts by Mr Stathakis, without investigating whether the adequacy of the funds available to meet their current cash requirements allowed it. So, for the first time, we have seen tails - I will say and hurt some communist-type ATMs. We thought that we were seeing scenes from Bulgaria, Romania, Russia, that were going for a turkey there two hours and people were waiting. The excuse was cheap, so it seemed to me childish: “It is not my fault. The foreigners have closed the banks to avenge us." The people don't believe you or us. You shut it down, with the unprecedented tactics you've followed. Mr. Tsipras said the aim was to blackmail the Greek people for the referendum, which was finally a big prank. I have relatives who were convinced and voted, and then they had their eyes down and they didn't want to look me face to face. The 'no' that the next day became 'yes'. So children, manipulations, persuasions, cuffs. Then one - one confessed your sins. Since 17 March, Mr. Diaselblum had announced it to RTL, while at the same time Mr. Sakellaridis was probably disputing it. On 18 September Mr Tsipras confessed to waiting for the capital controls. So, he knew and they took us willingly to the disaster. Fortunately, last minute something enlightened the government and took a huge turn. In any case, this destruction of small and medium-sized enterprises, of the free professionals, is not a matter for you, because you are arrogant enemies of entrepreneurship, of private initiative. Some in your party - they have at times confessed that they have communist advances and are still communists - have class differences with the free professionals, with the entrepreneurs. But where are you going to get taxes? From businesses that have no profits? I've never heard 100% tax advance. How will these people survive? They have not only taxes to pay, they have the costs of their business, their employees and their funds. Those who don't leave for the Balkans will close in the next few months. That's for sure. I think the game is lost, and I hear some jokes we're gonna put on taxes for the shipowners. They're going to run and go to Panama and move our handkerchief from the ships because the ships are changing flags at sea and a name already. We need to get serious, then. We're not at the law amphitheater. I remember those schooltime amphitheatres that each was finding solutions. You have responsibilities now because you are ruling or rather please rule. People outside were saying something jokes. He says he'll cut off SYRIZA's hands. I have a question: why are you calling on us to ratify acts imposed, as you say, by blackmailers? Here, of course, there's something wicked here. The first three are late and should have come before the elections, but you would have a political cost, because someone would have shown a contrast between your positions and your practice. Let's say VAT, as tourism is going on. You bring increased VAT to hotels. These people, how will they compete with the Turks, the Maltese and the Spaniards? You condemn them. The fifth act of legislation relates to the exorbitant remuneration of some counsellors. I see in this act that in a suspicious way the possibility of directly outsourced work to some experts is being given. I have a question, and I guess it's Mr. Liu, Mr. Varoufakis, is there? The sixth act of legislation relates to Evros, the weather phenomena. It is, according to you, to unforeseen factors. Here, because I am an engineer, I could accept that the factors are unpredictable, but sometimes we have to anticipate, we have to strengthen our fortifications. However, there is a matter of manipulation here and then. We'll be a little flexible and critical to see it sometime. In the next NATO legislative act, it is a matter of government policy. I believe that you will pursue a sound policy. It is something pleasant that for the first time a Greek officer is placed in a similarly high position. We welcome the specific position of this officer as symbolic, so we give a better picture of a Greece that is embarrassed and unreliable in the eyes of Europeans. In the eighth act on immigration, there are uncontrolled charters, ships at any cost. I would like to point out, however, why the times are wicked. We must highlight your responsibilities and our concerns and concerns and the public about open borders, or rather about 'at all' borders. As Mr Tsipras said earlier, 'the sea has no borders'. Greece is a small country. All in Pakistan and Afghanistan want to come to Greece. Of course we are sympathetic to real refugees. We must give them more than what we are giving today. Of course, we are sympathetic to the real refugees, but with them some economic immigrants or some who are, in their statement, refugees. Apart from their inconsistent culture - because I am revolted by something within myself, and if you judge me strictly - these people will understand the jobs of the already unemployed Greeks. Some have said that the Greeks no longer go to the fields to work. Of course they don't. Because they give 5 euros a day to the so-called'refugees' who are enslaved. Because they live forty people in a house, and they send to their family, and all the money. Which Greek is going to work there? So they do occupy jobs. There's something else. These people, apart from taking positions, are also incompatible in their culture. They consider women res to be an object, that is, the most fundamentalists want to impose their logic on us. We are afraid that there are also some jihadists who will turn against Greece. So when we talk about a multicultural Europe, we are talking about a combination of cultural values. I do not see cultural values. They consider women res, as I said, stone the infidels, throw some different than the rooftops of the apartments. From a government, however, which has a Minister of Education a gentleman who disputes the genocide of the Pontians, one cannot expect something more creative. There is a provision for cleaners in the ninth act. You're right. For teachers, however, who are suffering at the moment, there is nothing. There is some acceptance from the CEDEFOP of the OTAs you had previously removed. We will see this with a constructive attitude because there is acceptance of the CEDEFOP. The tenth legislative act includes, among other things, the transfer of pupils. That is where the most useful solution needs to be found. We do not see anything extraordinary here, however. We don't understand why you brought it on a temporary basis. However, we will also consider this to be a positive matter. Eleventh is about privatization of the EDP with the regressions involved. We have already placed ourselves in the vote on the bill. As far as the twelfth act is concerned, you are effectively abolishing the powers of the Council and changing the way the Presidents are elected, as you do. Was this rather your election commitment? I wonder. In principle, therefore, we are voting against. We reserve the vote on the motions for resolutions on the motions for resolutions on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u19	The circle of special speakers is closed with Mr Cavalella's speech. And before entering the list of speakers, let me have some announcements. The Minister for Finance, Mr Euclidis Tsakalotos, submitted the following draft laws: 1. ‘For the ratification of the State's Financial Year 2014 Report.’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘For the ratification of the State's Balance Sheet for the financial year 2014’. They shall be referred to the Committee on the Reporting and the General Balance sheet of the State and to the review of the implementation of the State's budget. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and the v. Proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 3126/2003 on criminal liability of Ministers, as is the case, for criminal proceedings concerning the Minister of State, Alexandros Flabourari. There are also requests from Members for a short-day leave abroad for personal or other reasons. In particular, Mrs Anna Karamanlis from 2-12-2015 to 7-12-2015, Mr Hatzidakis from 25-11-2015 to 27-11-2015 and also Mr Fortsakis from 28-11-2015 to 6-12-2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u20	The House approved the requested permits. We continue with the list of speakers and invite Mr. Famelos Socrates to the Step. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are debating today the ratification of legislative acts, which were in fact adopted before the elections. It was a difficult, critical, dangerous period for the interests of our country, for the interests of the citizens. It was a time when our country was literally accepting a war, in and out of its borders, so that it could not stand up, so that it could not draw up a speech that corresponded to the ideals and history of our country, within a suffocation which was both economic and political. Indeed, our own government, the government of SYRIZA, the Independent Greeks and the Greens, was forced to take legislative action, which other parties consider necessary, other parties in part. It was necessary, however, for our society and our economy to be able to operate at that time. The question, of course, arises: you who have been severely judging all these elements of the violation of democracy in previous years, how do you put yourself in the need for legislative acts at this time too? Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, precisely because we have had to go through our own democratic reading and tradition, but also our views on where society should go, we have submitted to the Greek people this whole choice. And we tabled it in September, because we really had to compromise both methods and policies in order to keep Greece out of the risk of bankruptcy. And the Greek people chose it and rewarded it so that this effort could continue, which is an effort of democracy, justice and democracy in our country. But the question arises: Are you entitled to falsify even elements of the Constitution and ask us why we did not put the PPPs into approval at the time when the House was closed for elections? Because the rapporteur of the Civilian Opposition has asked such a question, because the period of some legislative acts has actually ended. But didn't you know that during the period when the House is closed we can't discuss this? Are we going to get to the level of such simple questions within the House, but are they going to misinform society? Because this is your real will. Although Greek society has chosen the way for the reconstruction and recovery of the country, you continue to try to promote misinformation, the lie essentially within society, so that Greece cannot stand up. But is it a political choice, if you wish, that you do not choose the capital, which is to save the country and the economy, but to serve your own party chair today? Because that is where the opposition has now come up, in other words, to falsify reality, with the only aim of political survival. And, of course, how deadly this policy is, it also seems from the internal debate of the parties to the opposition and from the deadlocks that feed their own operation. We do not interfere in the life and functioning of the parties, but we believe that democracy and the functioning of our state, the future of our children depends on the responsible attitude of the opposition which, unfortunately, demonstrates that it cannot respond every day. The lie, however, is not just limited to the old parties of bipartisanism. Unfortunately, we hear from this step forward - and we need to make it clear - that the choice of the European Central Bank, the choice of lenders to close the banks to force both the government and society to step back and adopt new parties in this House. The lie, however, has close legs, ladies and gentlemen, and, if you continue to be such a tactic, that you become bipartisan drug dealers, not only to whom the banks have been closed, but also to other issues that the political system and the involvement want to introduce into the debate, such as, for example, the incredible history you have invented to provide for the universal government, we must warn you that society is judged - because it has judged the elections - and the people are standing proudly and enduringly against it. You can't sell a fairy tale about who closed the banks. Because while the lenders imposed asphyxiation in the country, the Greek people in the referendum stood up. And this 60% we have honoured in negotiating and won to change at least 50% of the agreement and, of course, compromise on several options. But are these legislative acts which can be proud to have left-handed? We, ladies and gentlemen, will tell you first of all that many of the actions are socially relevant. Would anyone choose something different for the transport of students? Would anyone choose anything different for the Evros repair work that had been flooded? Because environmental licensing, ladies and gentlemen, you are both engineers and you know, lasts for a certain period of time and has at least sixty days of consultation. Who would stand Evros to wait for the consultation to strengthen the impurities? These are specific questions. It may have hurt you that some of the legislative acts are returning elements of democracy to the development of organs at the university. Is it wrong to have a large list of which to choose from at the Greek universities? Or was it right to create a limited list to get all the non-excellents out of the system and just choose a dean from our own? Because that has existed so far, this has actually been done with the law that you defended. Why? In order to appoint, beyond the party rulers throughout the state, and advances that will be good in the system. But we, ladies and gentlemen, want to say something more. It's dangerous that Officer Response's tactics create a black picture of the economy in the country. Because the economy in Greece resists and creates. While three weeks ago you had made your flag 2.6% possible recession in the budget and in the 2015 statement, the budget now comes and says that the recession for this year is zero, the economy has the potential to create. But are you doing national, patriotic and social work when you fear entrepreneurship when you create a black, distorting, false image just for your own party interest, but not for the real economy and work? Because real work, the real economy will bring social cohesion and development back to our country. Please let us all remember what you once said. ‘Dangerous recapitalisation, it is impossible to solve red loans’. However, they were solved and solved with more than 80%, so with all the first residence of the middle and popular family. What were you talking about? You said you weren't going to solve this. Dangerology for the social interest, economic risk turns the economy backwards. We must, however, say that, although with legislative acts, although with a great economic and political suffocation, Greece has overcome itself and managed to resist the referendum and to win democracy, we must decide at our place with the elections, but also to create conditions that also have a new economy and social redistribution and justice for the homes of the world. And this course is the same as Greece's open arms to refugees. Because we have heard new unscrupulous and racist ideas from this step by the previous speaker about the racism and the disfellowshipping of Greeks from work due to refugees. No, ladies and gentlemen. Greece has opened up its arms and accepts refugees who go to other countries. They do not question our right to life and work. We must defend the right of all peoples to life. First of all, however, we must defend the right of our own country to work, to development and to the promotion. We did so by legislative acts. We have exceeded our ethics, but we are sure that we are taking a course that will bring future to the place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, was asked to speak. We shall then continue with the list of speakers. Parliament's representatives are already asking to speak. He has asked for the floor and Mr Karras has spoken later. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I will only say a word to SYRIZA in response to the audacity of all those Members of this particular party who today, from this step of the House, dare to show the finger to New Democracy. The answer is one: This bill, ladies and gentlemen, which you are bringing to the House today to vote for - to see it, too, the Greek people - is an absolute presumption or - it could be said - the monument of deception and hypocrisy. Why is that? Because in here there is a excess of courage, lying and mocking. And because, in this Chamber, we are talking about them, but the Greek people are also watching us, I just want to tell you that, of course, both the legislative and constitutional frameworks and the parliamentary frameworks give us the opportunity for national need, so that the state can function on many occasions. Of course that's what this is all about. It's not unconstitutional. But where is hypocrisy? The hypocrisy lies in what, just before the rapporteur of the New Democracy - I will not repeat it - Mrs Asmakoulou submitted to the Minutes of the House, in the words of the Prime Minister himself, first-class members of the SYRIZA who spoke of a coup d'état, for a junta and today you bring in here with the same courage, without any element of self-criticism, without a "excuse" of what you have said five years about legislative acts, and you say "vote them". So just, bring twelve acts of legislation that are packed. You know, these legislative acts include something else. Today, before the Greek people, the signature of the Prime Minister himself and all the members of the government, who were electionally and post-electionally reassured that they were not responsible for closing the bank, bank holidays. The law itself on the last page includes the Prime Minister and the entire Governing Council. Here's who they're responsible for. Let the Greek people hear it, who closed the Greek banks. And that's not so innocent, because it has consequences. The "first time left" was accompanied with a first time bank holiday, first time closing banks in Greece. And today we're talking, the banks are closed. And that's innocent? Does it pass as painless as you just want to present it? Of course not, because it has consequences. It has an impact on the dignity of retired people. You remember the tails that were formed outside the banks, to get the pension - 'fly', as you said. But we'll see about that when the insurance comes. This is an insult to entrepreneurs, to people of hardship, to workers who committed their money. It is an insult and undermines the national economy to be closed up by the banks, as you blocked the development of the Greek businesses itself. And along with them came the worst: closed banks, capital control in Greece of 2015 with "first time left"! Hundreds of thousands of our Greek fellow citizens today, as banks are recapitalising, they have lost their money, because the value of the shares has been zeroed! Of course they are those who do not protest, did not go down on the sidewalk as a group of protesters or indignant ones, to block today's session, to call on you: 'What did you do? Bring us back the money!" The money of Greek shareholders, ordinary workers, people and households who invested in Greek banks and lost their money as they were deceived. Doesn't SYRIZA have anything to say about them? Or for the businesses that have closed and created greater unemployment, as their money has been blocked, were they trapped, could they not import? Doesn't SYRIZA say anything about them? Or even for the EUR 5 billion of the Greek State, the Financial Stability Fund, which has become EUR 2.8 billion today? And all that goes to every Greek taxpayer's pocket! Isn't that why SYRIZA has anything to say? Someone will tell me: But this is all in the sphere of the idea or the general. But listen to me, because it's worth comparison. To listen to the Greek people, to understand beyond us here that we are discussing them: the National Bank of Greece, the value of shares of the Greek State and the valuation of shares of the Financial Stability Fund in the systemic banks. Listen: At the end of 2014 the value of the National Bank's share was EUR 2,05. Today with SYRIZA, it's 0.02 minutes. Congratulations! According to Alpha Bank in December 2014, the share value was EUR 0,579. Today is 0.04 minutes. In Piraeus Bank, the value of the share at the end of 2014 was EUR 1,12. Today is 0.003 minutes! And I continue with Eurobank, which from EUR 0,273, the share reached 0,01 cent. Congratulations, gentlemen of SYRIZA. You did it! Hundreds of thousands of Greeks lost their money, banks were bought very easily and this was the secret of the recapitalisation. Because ultimately the key to the recapitalisation was the degrading price of the shares. The Greeks were unable to get in again because they had lost their money that had been blocked in the banks. And foreign investors came - we don't judge this, but I say it about the self-criticism that SYRIZA has to do - the so-called "foreign funds", what you incriminate for five years, which you demonized only the phrase "foreign funds", and they bought the shares of the Greek banking system. Congratulations on success. Rejoice her! This is SYRIZA and this must be remembered by the Greek people and deep engraved in his memory, because today he experiences the deadlock of SYRIZA, as the banks continue to be closed. Today's debate is not coming alone. It comes with an unacceptable, enthusiastic statement from the Government. Because it updates the issues of legislative acts, which Parliament is now being asked to vote on. In expressing the government, Mrs Giannakou-Koutsikou made a very provocative statement. You saw her, I think. The framework for its statement through the media was distributed, which in a very fragile way also triumphantly triumphed on three major issues and the economy as well as society. He triumphed for the recapitalisation of the banks, ignoring all the things I described before: the acquisition of the banks by the so-called foreign funds, price depreciation, depreciation of shares, the loss of money for thousands of Greek shareholders and the closure of business. SYRIZA triumphs through Ms. Gerovasili. Also triumphed, Mrs. Gerovasil and SYRIZA for the famous hundred doses. Can I remind you what the hundred doses were? It was one of the so-called "flamp" flags you had up and won the election. You deceived hundreds of thousands of Greeks both in their tax and insurance obligations. You are talking about a national attitude you have shaped the framework of "I do not pay", you who, in September 2014, when the previous government of Samara - New Democracy - PASOK - unilaterally brought that famous framework of the hundred-dollar deadlines - much better than your current one, if we compare them - which you have undermined, because you cultivated the illusion of seism and the lie that we will do something much more attractive, we will grant the loans. And today, Mrs Gerovasili, with this same nerve that expresses SYRIZA, comes to triumphant for the hundreds of doses. From the information I know, from EUR 3.5 billion overdue to the insurance funds, 1.9 billion has already left. And the prediction is - I have told her since the Stepping of the House - that very few more will remain in these hundred doses, which will now be enclaved to wonder why, therefore, they have been deceived. But it's time to shoot! The latter - which is also a hypocrisy element - is about great red loans. But we talked about the law a week ago, didn't we? But, a week ago, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group was not the one who dared to speak from the House, because he felt the guilt of everything he said in election, from the ‘no house in the banker's hands’ to the group auctions? We were here, weren't we? Wasn't that the reason that you lost two MPs and Mr Sakellaridis left, the right hand of the Prime Minister and former Minister? And you come today - the SYRIZA through his Minister - and triumphantly announce it as a success of the government? Are we kidding? Well, to get together: Ladies and gentlemen, you will find them in front of you. The lies have short feet. The New Democracy will continue to behave with the same vigour, with the same responsibility that manages things for many years now, putting the national interest above any party thinking. We've proved that. Reforms, structural changes, which we challenge you to bring and delay unreasonably, will support. But - and take it as a message - for unnecessary measures to increase taxes and reduce pensions, find others to support you. The New Democracy did a very good job at political level, balanced the country financially and brought financial results. They didn't need pension reductions, they didn't need tax increases. Patience was needed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But you pushed through the President of the Republic, took the elections and look where you led the country! Therefore, away from us, and from you, any thought that can pass through your mind that we will stand next to unnecessarily measures, painful for the Greek people and, above all, unfairly, because these measures, in January 2015, were not needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Mrs. Keramea has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to ratify the works and the days of our first and second left governments, by ratifying the twelve of the fourteen acts of legislation which you have adopted since March, the gentlemen of the government, who, through the mouth of today's Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the President of your House and other officials, until recently described the adoption of a legislative act as your own words - as a violation of democracy as inspirational practices, as a state of war and siege. I hope that everyone here today agrees that the country is not in a state of war and siege. And yet, you are issuing legislative acts. The fact is that in the years of the crisis - and especially since 2011 - there has been a significant increase in the number of legislative acts. And this phenomenon has been highlighted as a worrying trend towards a distortion of parliamentary and political life. All the Parliamentary Republics are provided for a short and urgent legislative procedure in the event of an emergency. And it is obvious that in the event of a crisis we are talking about a necessary evil. But, ladies and gentlemen, this procedure must be used in a measure and with caution. I will not overshadow the situation during the New Democracy ruling period. I will not support the fact that the measure and the wisdom of the legislative process have always been respected, nor of course that our own PPPs have been good and your own bad. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in this case, the legislative material of the acts of legislation in the last eight months that we have been discussing here today proves two things: Firstly, it demonstrates the lack of planning and coordination of the government project. Secondly, it demonstrates the arrogant abuse of the power of the government to legislate without prior consultation. In other words, it demonstrates the abuse of Article 44 of the Constitution. I would remind you what Article 44 provides for. It allows FPIs only in exceptional cases, extremely urgent and unforeseen need. Of the fourteen total legislative acts that you have adopted to date, one, let us say two, may have been urgent and unforeseen. And I'm thinking mainly of the August 17th, about restoring damage from the extreme weather phenomena in Evros. Now let's go to the rest. Under no circumstances constitute exceptional, urgent and unforeseen needs, the two acts of legislation by which you presented your first samples to the special legislative procedure. I would remind you of the legislative act on the financing of the "Greek Sugar Industry", which by the way of State aid may also constitute the problem of this industry has not solved. And that's because the company's back on the verge of bankruptcy. Second PPA to transfer the cash resources of the general government bodies to the Bank of Greece in order to pay salaries, pensions and debts to creditors. And, if you remember, then you told us you didn't need a dose from the lenders. In fact, you sent back the 11 billion of the Financial Stability Fund. The truth, however, is that at the time your proud negotiating tactic did not allow you the country to finance smoothly. Let's not forget that the result of your'superior' negotiation was the next five MFFs, which imposed and then modified the bank holidays and capital controls, which may constitute an exceptional need, perhaps, unforeseen, for no reason. When the Prime Minister, Minister, took the negotiation to the extremes, when the Prime Minister announced the referendum, while he knew that the country was out of funding, then did he not know that these announcements would cause an unprecedented liquidity problem? I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you will allow me to speak on a point of order. I would also like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the government: why is it an exceptional and unforeseeable need for what is being regulated by the next five acts of legislation? For the economy, I will refer only to two of them: First: On 19 August you issued an IPA regulating the service and salary status of the Chief of HNDGS in the event of being elected as President of the National Commission of NATO, or of the European Union or of another international organisation. I remind you, Minister, that 19 August was only one day before the resignation of your government and the announcement of early elections. Another clear case of lack of coordination of the government's work: A loose end that you knew existed a long time ago, you literally left it on the last day. And, of course, on the last day what other measure can there be than an act of legislation? There was no normal legislative procedure. I am going to the latest legislative act of 7 October, which you will allow me to describe as a 'patchwork register'. Emergency themes of the Ministries of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economy, Development and Tourism, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Education, Research and Religious Affairs are regulated. None of the arrangements shall cover an exceptional and unforeseen need. Indicatively, Article 6 gives significant changes to the law governing the operation of higher education institutions. These changes, which have taken place without debate, lead to the abolition of the institutions' councils, make the institutions' organisation procedures more vulnerable to party interventions and abolish the international character of the election. Can you really, gentlemen of the government say that this is an emergency and unforeseen need? Do you not think that this is an issue on which there is a need for dialogue? The same applies to the possibility of examining those students in previous years in vocational schools. These are major issues of education, which should have been included in the normal legislative procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, last January, when I had the honour of electing a Member for the first time, a distinguished legal officer gave me this book, which is considered the book of good and proper legislature, written by a professor of law in England. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute more, Mr President. So it happened: On the day I was here and in practice saw how Greece legislated and read this book at night. I don't need to tell you that the distance between the two was real abyss. And every month that passes, I find that this abyss is no longer extended. Here, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must remember our duties as parliamentarians, as these stem from the Constitution. We all have to protect the parliamentary procedures together against real degeneration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Keramea. Mr. Hadjisavvas has the floor since the Golden Dawn. Mr. Konstantopoulos and Mr. Kamaeros will be followed. Mr Karras asked for the floor, the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres. Mr Dimas will then speak and then the Minister will take Mr Chakalotos. Here, Mr. Hadjisavva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. We therefore have fourteen pages with legislative acts. It's another democracy-management course. First you decide and apply and then, if you can, you bring them to the House for discussion. Meanwhile, we have SYRIZA to call on strikes against the government's measures and the New Democracy to make reasons against everything that the government is going through, but on the standpoint to say that they vote, because they were first thinking about and stole the idea from them by SYRIZA. We have from the Members of the New Democracy and something else very characteristic: to invoke SYRIZA for not being right left. They say, "But well, are you left-wing ones? Are you going through such measures?’ So, what's left? Is it a good thing that SYRIZA's doing it badly, in the bad way? This is exactly what the left is, it's the windstorms of the capitalist system, the reserve of globalisation. They come out with a revolutionary slogan and end up with simple management of capitalist orders. In "institutions" they raised the troika and the lenders. Institution is home! They're not the loan sharks! Acts of legislative content, then: 'Let's go on to number damages from extreme weather phenomena in Evros'. The people there didn't understand anything. They didn't understand any of what you're saying here. Despair letters come every day to ask the Minister responsible. Nothing happened at all! Act of Legislative Content, "Urgent issues of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security and Solidarity". What arrangement? What solidarity? Thousands of people insured in the OGA, who were insured as freelance professionals, joined without knowing about it in one night in the OAU. They came in with a package of contributions that they could never pay. They've never been able to make any adjustment and they're drowned in debts. The same is true of thousands of young farmers, who have created the prospect of becoming young farmers and creating something in their village, supposedly. There are five articles on capital control, capital controls, the closure of banks. SYRIZA says: "Everything's fine. The market was normalized. However, you of the New Republic have closed the banks.’ The New Democracy, on the other hand, tells SYRIZA: "You have closed the banks." Golden Dawn denounces and says that together you closed the banks. You were looking for a chance to create a dramatic climax so that you could justify a change from an antimony to a memorial and SYRIZA and ANEL. You destroyed the dying market, and now you're trying to blame each other. But you finally agree that the capital controls were done, as they did. We went to plastic money, too. Everything's fine. Now everything's working fine. They all harmonized, and our economy is going well. But you say all the above - and you say that as an excuse - they were mainly done to protect the Greek economy. Greek economy, therefore, is the workers and the free traders. If you want to help, state the banks. Prohibit borrowing with interest. Delete the agricultural loans which affect young farmers and do not allow any auctions. Don't serve the banks. Make the state an ally, not an enemy of our nation. Is this for the sudden entry of a large number of immigrants? That's all! Are you kidding us? Golden Dawn has been calling it that for years. "Racists" you're telling us. But we were right. So now you anti-racists, the humanists, are coming to make arrangements for immigrants. So in Idomeni you count 12 thousand illegal immigrants, refugees in an area that barely fits two thousand. People can't sleep. They smashed sights in their homes and in their yards. The truth is that the only state body operating in the area is the Greek Police. Men and women of the Greek Police from morning until night try to manage the situation over there. Everyone else is non-governmental organizations. The inhabitants cannot cultivate their fields, what has been cultivated, destroyed, trampled, fruit and vegetables have been looted and among them have a war. The Macedonians came out and said 'we only accept refugees', which is why you were afraid to do the problem. If, from the outset, you had separated the few refugees and helped them, this would not have been a problem. And they are now fighting among the Iraqi, Afghans, Syrians and all the others who cannot get through and we are sitting there and we are witnessing these events. The solution that SYRIZA brought, at least for the Kilkis region, was to take half of the problem from there and take it to Kilkis' French, to close all police stations and stay all over the prefecture of two police stations. Four of the police stations that will be closed were in the areas where this particular problem exists. And all this so that non-governmental organisations can sell expensive humanity. But if you want humanity, we can tell you some truths. The same NGO donors, the United States of America and the European Union, Germany, England, France, sell war, sell arms, create wars, create the waves of immigrants. Stop their pawns, Turkey and Israel, which bombing civilians, do not bomb Assad and create armies of immigrants. Stop the embargo against Syria so that the Syrian people can feed so that they can recover. Stop your ideas and separate the few refugees from illegal immigrants so that we can resolve the issue and not drown in the seas. We as Golden Dawn will stand against the Islamization of Greece! We as Golden Dawn will stand against the Islamisation of Europe with all our strength! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u28	Mr Constantopoulos has the floor from the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, today the government brings a bill with twelve legislative acts. One question here is: does the government legislate or drugize the functioning of Parliament and disapprove the role of Members? "Basic decrees" SYRIZA said and called the legislative acts. What's changed today? Today you are bringing twelve legislative acts to the House. You bring bills by extorting the House to legislate by urgent procedure. You've forgotten your denouncing role. You forgot the past. So you forgot what you complained about. We are now coming to this bill. The first five articles deal with legislative acts dealing with bank holidays, capital controls and the liquidation of the EMI. It calls on the government to legitimize the closure of the banks it has imposed. Of course we do not consent, because, firstly, it is formally constitutional, as Article 44 of the Constitution provides for them to be ratified by Parliament within forty days. You did not. Why? You know. You were negotiating for six months. Result? The third memorandum, which brought 85 billion to the back of the Greek people. You closed the banks, you broke up the economy today, what? Today you are asking for praise and acceptance of your actions. That's what it's said, no more, political courage! You've managed and caused a climate of fleeing deposits. In November 2014, business and household deposits reached 164 billion. In September 2015, they do not exceed 122 billion, of course after the capital controls. The domestic banking system, that is, lost within a year 42 billion. You've frozen, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the economy. You sprinkled the horror of exiting the euro. During the summer season, the tiger fell vertically, 40% in the first week of the bank holiday, 30% in the second, 20% in the third. From the end of June to the end of July 2015, sales decreased by EUR 900 million compared to the corresponding period of 2014. Indicators of the economy and, in particular, the supply index have been suppressed. The demand and the new orders were established. GDP growth in 2014, at least with a small percentage of 0.8%. The 2015 estimate showed an increase of 2.5% and 3.6% for 2016. However, your irresponsible governance led the country in 2015 to a recession. GDP fell by 1.4%. There has also been a negative balance of recruitment and departures in the field of employment. In 2014 we had plus thirteen thousand jobs. In 2015? Seventeen thousand job cuts! Tragically the situation in the domestic banking system. Firstly, banks were left without substantial credit from international markets. In this respect, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty. Nowadays, 107 billions are eloquently reached. All this, of course, you know what they mean. You promptly urged the banks to need 15 billion to get you to sell the domestic banking system to investment funds. Last year, the value of Greek banks exceeds 25 billion. Today all together do not exceed 2 billion! Where do you see the success, gentlemen of the government? Of course, the responsibilities are yours, because you've been ruling the place in the last ten months. Mr Tsakalotos said that the impact of capital controls is not significant. The conclusions, Mr Chakaloto, are yours. Ladies and gentlemen, we come to the eighth act of legislation. No substantial planning to deal with the refugee issue. Lack of strategy and tactics by the Government, no reference to the financial aspects of the contracts provided, only one general provision of the General Accounting Office for expenditure of 15 million to 31 December 2015. Then what happens? Unknown. Article 9. The legislative act ensures that the school cleaners are taken care of. You did not, however, see to it that all schools have teachers and teachers to function properly. Many are kindergartens and full-time schools that do not work. So take your conclusions off! The tenth act of legislation has a matter of everyday life, which you should have resolved before the beginning of the school year. It concerns expenditure of EUR 35 million on cleaning contracts for schools, EUR 72 million on payment of substitutes and payrolls for teachers as well as special teachers and assistants. All last minute. And here's the oxymobile. Instead of dealing with the essential problems of education, Mr. Phils is dealing with the changes of executives to serve the trade unionists of his prolongation and, of course, to control the field of education. Perhaps Mr. Friend sees the field of education as a spoil. Mr Philis is obliged to legislate as Minister of Education and not as President of OLEME. As for Article 3 of the present, which concerns the transfer of students from their homes to schools, I would remind you that in 2012 SYRIZA as opposition had voted against a corresponding provision. Finally, we come to one of the most scandalous acts of legislation you bring. Article 12, you change the way in which the regulators are elected and how the institutions operate, a framework that opened the doors of the university to the international community. In a legislative act, therefore, you are abolishing the provisions of the n. 4009/2011, known as Diamantopoulou, the law passed by an unprecedented parliamentary majority of two hundred and fifty-five MPs. And yet, this law, gentlemen of SYRIZA and the ANELs, break him down with an act of legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Education is announcing the launch of a dialogue on education issues. He is, however, torpedoes him, by himself, exposing the Prime Minister, who naturally calls for dialogue and consensus. But we understand the inability of the prototype. But, gentlemen of the government, you rule with the arrogance of authority and left-wing idealism. Take it all back. Mr Friends is, of course, absent, but I would tell him to go to a real dialogue and to a consultation on education. Well, you can make it. If you want, of course, we're here waiting for you. Gentlemen of the government, for five years with inexcusable promises you have cultivated dissatisfaction and hatred to the Greek people. Today, you are asking for dialogue, wisdom and consensus on your destructive policy to put blame on others. The lie production machine, I'd say, all it manages is to lead to a painful ending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u30	Thank you. Mr. Katameros has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u32	Wait a minute, Mr. Kamaterre. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u33	As my Greeks have been questioned many times in this Chamber, I would like to make a clarification from the previous speaker if the Greek proposal "the consequences of capital controls are not important" are the same as the proposal "the effects of capital controls are not as serious as we initially feared". And I accept Mr Tasoula's arbitration as to whether these proposals are the same. I never said the consequences were not serious. I have said many times that it was not as serious as it was expected, and I think it is very different.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u34	Minister, that's not what I said. I personally said that it was your own achievement the Capital Controls and that's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u35	You said I said the consequences were not serious. That's what you said. I said it wasn't as serious as it was expected. That's not the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u36	All right, Mr. Constantopoulos. Please, have a seat. Mr. Cameroon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the rapporteur in New Democracy today and also to the committee responsible. Her suggestion was a copy and an obsession with some arguments used by the opposition in an election. He filed many papers and documentaries in the Minutes - great document - to prove the inconsistency of SYRIZA's words, what he said in the election and what he said post-elections. Of course, he was referring to the January elections. That is why her word was pro-electionary, before the elections in September, as if we have not clearly spoken to the Greek people for what many of what we said before we refer them to the future and why we cannot apply them now, as if we are not the ones who told the Greek people that the situation is so, that these difficulties exist and that is why we are asking for the approval of our positions and our programme to go further. So the people voted in the September elections. There's no point in that. Is she really unlucky? No, not at all, because there is no political controversy and arguments on the part of the Opposition. The same happened with Mr Brutsis and other speakers in the New Democracy, when they presented us with the well-known record - and this was an election - that the New Democracy, the previous government as a whole, was doing well, that it would get us out of the open and that SYRIZA ruined the whole story. And that's still an old account. The Greek people judged it. We have explained that this success story was a perfect story and the Greek people understood and know where we would be now, where the banks would be - because they were said - where the shares would be, where the pensions would be and where it would all be if the previous policy continued. But I understand that the Civic Opposition has a problem, because we are clearly saying that most of the measures we are now taking are outside our programme and we are necessarily voting on them, so that we can put in place a clear timetable and say when we are going to get out of it and when we are finally going to implement our programme. We call it clear. But the New Democracy has a dilemma. If she says she votes for these, then she doesn't oppose and reveals what her positions are. On the other hand, if she does not vote for them, then she betrays her ideology. Because that's her ideology. What can she vote for? Work relationships? For the privatisations, which are within her ideology and her programme and which she agreed to with the lenders and signed with them and legislated with them? One example I will mention just because many examples have been mentioned to curb SYRIZA's policy on immigration, because it also happens because of Kos' origin to have a greater friction. If that's possible! Look who's talking! They tell us that SYRIZA had no immigration policy and he doesn't even have one now. It started from the ship that Mrs Asmakopoulou put on to support the overall immigration policy that we have. What policy did you have, when you did not use any funds for reception areas, when you were warned that hundreds of thousands of immigrants would come and you did nothing or that you joined the views of the Golden Dawn that we should guard the sea borders and even now you insist that you say it - how to guard them you are not telling us - or in the views of the Golden Dawn that we do not want them and should not come. Who raised the issue in Europe? Who managed to put the refugee agenda on the agenda, that it was about Greece and not just Italy? Who is currently negotiating how we will be able to accept Europe as many refugees as possible and who is negotiating to keep the border out and stay open so that the refugees do not stay here? Just one example I'm going to say, so I can finish and be in my time. I address the Minister, and if he was here and the Prime Minister, because I have had a personal experience recently, these days, in a hospital with a relative. Instead of going, Minister, to the Europeans in Mytilini - enough we have taken them - to see the camps and the scenes, to take them to a Greek hospital to see what Europe is to see how our country keeps Europe up, how it holds Europe's humanism high. A 20% to 30% are Greeks who are cured by the health system. The rest are refugees and other vulnerable groups, which do not have access to the health system. Mr Xanthos raised the issue yesterday in Rome, where the Council of Ministers takes place. That's what we have to show them, and see, so they don't move our hand for ten minutes in wine or beer or a euro in hospitals we have to put in order to support our system. Here they come to see what the real Europe is and we are doing very well to highlight this humanism and keep the flag in Europe high. To conclude, Mr President - I have said this repeatedly in another speech - to the government, I would like to say that we cannot hold a dialogue or expect constructive proposals from opposition and participation in the big issues that our country is currently facing. He did very well and the Prime Minister's invitation has been issued over the last few days. You see the response. Who are we gonna have it from? Of those who go now to see what they're going to do with their party? But we said that at this point they arrived because they had a serious dilemma. So we are talking and addressing the people. From him we draw our strength, we speak with him. Again, as I speak to the government last time, I say that we must listen to him, we must resist as much as possible - Mr Minister, since you are here - and we will do so not only daily, achieving little things in percentages and figures, etc., but above all - and it is the most serious - by keeping the hope that somewhere there is a way out of this tunnel, somewhere we will go out in the clearing and we will implement all of this for which the people have voted for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u38	The Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Karras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Before being placed, I would ask the Minister to tell us whether two amendments which have been distributed, one concerning an intergovernmental agreement and the other, are to be incorporated into this draft bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u40	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u41	Thank you. I'll comment on it later. We therefore have twelve legislative acts. What about them? Will they be ratified? They will be enforced logically. But what was the history of these twelve acts, or at least the first five, concerning the closure of the banks and all that suffering for the country? So you will allow me to say that prehistoric history comes from far behind. It comes from the first major bank crisis in early 2013, from the second banking crisis that was recapitalised in 2014 and the recent bank recapitalisation. That's the prehistoric story. Why am I saying that? In 2013, when the banks started to recapitalise, the bank’s disposal price was EUR 1,70 and the bank’s nominal value was EUR 0,30. One was created in favor of the good capital of the banks, which was evaporated. So we expect to hear what the course of these billions was and where it ended up at some point. In this Chamber, the House must hear this, because we have charged the state with the first recapitalisation of the banks of EUR 40 billion. No word from New Democracy or SYRIZA! New Democracy recapitalises the banks for the second time through private funds in 2014, but they also vaporize. They're being dismantled and lost. But there is now a recapitalisation ten, fifteen days ago in Parliament and leaves the question of capital with which the Financial Stability Fund should be subsidized. However, the banks themselves come - and this is a big question - and they say 'We give a discount on a nominal share discount of EUR 0.30 and we make them available for EUR 0,03'. They are, they are financed, they are now being strengthened by the capitalists, the privateers, who are being loaded to the state, gentlemen. I repeat why I say that. At a nominal value of EUR 0.30 then, we now go to EUR 0,03 the price for the stock exchange. Today there are 0.02 euros in shares. Mr Famello has already commented in this Chamber on a position expressed by the President of the Union of Centres, that we will eventually end up with a universal government. But we fear that we will end up - perhaps it is necessary to end up - with the universal government, because at the moment the crisis does not seem to have an exit. The crisis doesn't give way, it doesn't lead anywhere. There's nothing in this Chamber about development. There is no attempt to develop. That was the example I gave you before. I told you about the value of the shares at EUR 0,02, with a nominal value of EUR 0.30, i.e. 90% discount. Why? What is the fate of the Greek economy? And then we say we don't get to get to know each other at some point! I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the lack of agreement between the two major parties over the last three years, the SYRIZA and the New Democracy has led to this situation. We will, of course, vote against the first four and fifth of the legislative acts because they add nothing anymore. Their contents are exhausted. They created the consequences that have come to the Greek economy. The world was tangled, led to the ATMs and to borrowing from each other 5 euros and 10 euros to survive the day. So why should we ratify them today? But that is not the only issue. In the same act of legislation, in Article 6, we have a nice title "Restoration of damage from extreme weather phenomena in Evros". So we hear that there has been a great catastrophe. So we hear that the disaster must be restored. But what does this arrangement hide? You want me to tell you? It hides quarries, which they gave the region. He's hiding quarries. He's breaking the Constitution. The Constitution says that quarries must operate within institutionalised quarries. And this act of legislation comes, unconstitutionally 100%, and it says that, apart from the quarry legislation, the decentralised administration has the right to grant the region - and I do not know - the region does not, of course, have any organization of business, via subcontractors - areas for materialisation for - products! - damage recovery. It's funny, gentlemen! Why is that funny? Because throughout Greece there are quarries, there are quarries. The Council of State in a series of decisions - whoever wants to see them - has found that only in quarries can they operate only exceptionally outside quarries if there is a failure to define. I would like to say to Mr Tsakaloto, who, as Minister of Finance, may not have direct responsibility, is also involved in his ministry. On 31-12-2015, eighty-eight quarries, at least, expired in Greece. Why do they end up? They say that an extension has been made and that the state has not made sure that it is extended and that eighty companies will be closed down. What are these operations, Minister? They are the well-known Marmaros Dionysos, the largest exporting company of the mineral wealth of Greece. They are known as "Marmara Pangaios", "Marmara Dramas", "Marmara Kavalas". They will be closing down export-oriented operations and we have not seen a provision in the House, even at the last minute. Welcome or badly the previous governments in a medium-sized way have taken care of it, gave some extensions and so it worked. But they'll close in the Peloponnese, Corinth, Sparta. I am in a position to present a list of businesses, which, on 31 December - if it does not rush, Mr Tsakaloto, the House will legislate - will close and look for jobs - which these people do not have - and we will have to demand engineering equipment and say, for the glory of the state, that we have shut down private businesses, and we have no alternative. Well, Article 6 is a false copy. It introduces an anti-constitutional provision. I want you to take care of that. We will, of course, vote against, because there is no other way out but to legislate on a country's development. The Minister for the Environment has been speeded up in a bill last night, and what did he say to us? I have been prolonging PPC's geothermality contracts for five years, and it is well known that geothermality has not developed anywhere. On its website it says ‘installed power of zero’. But for the private economy, I haven't heard anything yet. I expect and expect, Minister, to listen to the government's position at this point. Article 7, honorary post for the Chief of HNDTP who took over the chairman of an international committee. We can't have any objections. Article 8, transport of migrants to the Aegean Sea. Uh, yeah, we're going to vote on it! The Centro Association has a humanitarian character. It recognises the problem that currently exists in Greece. Don't laugh, Mr. Comrade. They're humanitarian reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u42	But the last one, yours, but he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u43	Let him get away with it. I don't know what he said. I am speaking at the moment and I am speaking about the party, which recognises the humanitarian crisis and is voting in favour of the provision. As much as you want to comment on it, Mr Colleague, the reasons are humanitarian, we respect it. What else the government is seeking, with our cooperation, is to help in this area. We have no opinion that these people are dangerous. They have to survive. We know about the wars in Syria, we know that Iraq is fading, we know about Libya. There are four countries at the moment at war. We know too many things that may not seem in here. That is why we are voting in favour of Article 8. We are also voting in favour of Article 9, partly - if you wish - which is not the case, so we shall vote on it as a whole because it has the transfer of pupils. It is a crucial issue for the transfer of students. They must be supported. This has been delayed. It must be done by means of legislative acts, which are not in our philosophy, but we must support it. But, here, if you want, I'll make a comment. There is also the next act of legislation, which is also intended to transport pupils. In fact, Article 4 says that it is adopted, and it also has a next provision, which approves credit for school-leaving and substitute teachers, so that the school year can work. At this point, I would like to remind you that this has already been voted on. So today I think we are legislating very carefully. This is Article 58 of the Broadcasting Act, Mr Manda, which you have recommended. This is the article, which has been amended by Mr Philly. When I from the Stepma I raised the point that I must at the same time withdraw the posted teachers, who reach the four thousand and are right and left, from here - poorly - even in metropolitan cities, I learned that there are seconded teachers - he told us that he cannot recall them because they have learned to be in school halls. So, he told us about late payrolls? In any case, since it has a positive sign for schools for the educational year, we see Article 10 positively. We are, of course, voting against the bill. I come to Rule 11 on the clearance of the EDP. I have to say I'm tired of hearing about the FOD! Three times came here to approve the concession contract, and then came a package that even got us the pins of the ODR warehouse to be recorded in a hundred-page bill. Second time, third time for the DEO, for the good, we can't do it anymore! We shall vote against Article 11 for reasons of principle. Legislation cannot come out repeatedly and continuously for the same thing. Let the Services coordinate, let the Ministries coordinate, let us do something. That's no way to legislate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a moment. Of course we are going to the latest and pertinent legislative act, which comes without any urgent need - and here we now have constitutional issues. Do you know what's going on with her? We are saying that we are changing the way in which we elect senior schools to be elected, and that we are intervening in the management boards. But that was a crucial issue for national education dialogue. Is it possible to support such an act of legislation unilaterally, without having listened and without having exchanged opinions? To conclude, I would like to comment, Minister, Mr Chakaloto, on this one amendment that you have tabled for the intergovernmental agreement. I have a vertical constitutional objection - you will allow me as legal - because there is an international convention in the country under Article 28(1) of the Constitution, and it is Article 28(2) of the Constitution, because it restricts state sovereignty, whether we want it or not. So it must be - yes, Mr Manda! - a separate bill, which should be introduced in accordance with the procedure of independent legislation in plenary and a debate. Even if the question of the regulation on banking union between the Member States with a central body for the resolution of banking institutions is to be seen as a fine expression that will help us, it provides resources for the Greek public. This is a concession of national sovereignty. Look at it, please. It cannot come as an amendment. As far as the last amendment is concerned, I have the following question - and I am ending - regarding the staff appointed by the AACC, eighty-six regular auditors. We're sick of hearing that too! Three times Mr Alexiadis has brought us the same legislation for the limitation, for how to control them and those. So, as far as this issue is concerned, which is the wage and graduation of the hundred and eighty-six regular employees of the Ministry of Finance, I propose that this should also come to a legislation of the Ministry of Finance, in order to listen to the reasons why these people should evolve faster. For that is the case, Minister, no matter how much you do not want to say it. I think that in here they want to evolve these hundred and eighty-six of the ASAP competition faster than the others. It's a thin spot. So we do not think that it can be discussed in this House today as an amendment to ratify legislative acts. We have a special procedure: we do or do not ratify legislative acts. There is no possibility of amending this anymore, because we are introducing separate new bills. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Carras. You also used your dentistry to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u45	You're going to charge me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u46	We don't charge it, you deserve it. I'm just saying that by overcoming the twelfth you were entitled to protology, you also took advantage of the time of dentistry. I made a point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. If we're done today, it won't be a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u48	Mr Dimas has the floor from New Democracy. Mr Papapas will be followed by the Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, then by Mrs Christophilopoulou from the Democratic Partnership, and then by Minister Tsakalotos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u49	Doesn't that change, Mr. President? Can Mrs Christophilopoulou go backwards, Mr President, and speak first?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Dimas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. If the Government of New Democracy today brought a bill to the House with twelve acts of legislation, of which five had to do with the bank holiday, you understand that colleagues from SYRIZA and from the opposition, the opposition, would literally be 'in the bars'. We were going to talk about a demolishment of democracy. I just want to note that. The simplest thing to do is complicate things, the more complicated it is to simplify them. Indeed, after you reached the edge of the collapse, thinking that this is how you blackmailed the lenders, after you reached the country half a step outside the euro and imposed a restriction on the movement of capital - the great capital controls - after you complicated the situation with an inappropriate but destructive referendum, you retracted. But you're late. And this lost time, your care until you land in reality, unfortunately the country and the citizens pay for it. It is now known that the Tsipras - Kammenos Governments have a special preference in legislating through legislative acts. However, a bill containing so many acts of legislation that we have first seen. Simple reading of the first series of the title of today's draft law is the best account of the financial damage caused by the government in recent months with its revolts and its indecisiveness. By legislative act first you closed the banks, imposed checks on the movements of capital, then extended the closure of the banks, then set a new strict framework for the movement of capital, which is accompanied to date and no one knows exactly when it will cease. You have caused and caused enormous damage to the national economy. You have stricken insecurity, prosecuted and booked businesses, found investments, collapsed the real economy, increased unemployment and tax everyone and everything. In short, dismantle the private economy. The banking system has reached the limit of the collapse due to the mistaken manipulations of the Tsipra - Kammenos government. Do you really remember what the Minister of Finance said, Mr. Varoufakis? "To hack all VAT from the Ministry of Finance, create a parallel system and pay civil servants - and not just - through IOUs." Tell me a Prime Minister who would not give up on the Minister of Finance by listening to these words at the same time. Just Mr. Tsipras! The money for the recapitalisation of the banks but also in general for the healing of the financial damage you have caused in recent months is not only a burden on today's generation. They've moved the account to the next generations, to our children and to our grandchildren. In a few months the bank image has deteriorated rapidly. Deposits were reduced by 50 billion or 25% of their total assets, increased rapidly to non-performing loans, the financial need of banks by the Eurosystem, from the famous ELA, to 85 billion from 0 that was last year. And, of course, I would remind you that this money is not given to us - with what everyone understands about it. Also, from the banks’ recapitalisations and the zeroing of the value of bank shares, the Greek State has lost more than 40 billion. Consider how many small shareholders have invested in bank shares in recent years and what losses they have suffered, especially in the last year. But it's not just the economy. On national issues - as we saw in the recent visit by the Prime Minister to Turkey and to a second degree a month ago in the United States -, in the management of refugee and migration flows, in education, in work, in justice, in determination or - more rightly - in the indiscriminate fight against terrorism and in entrepreneurship every statement by the members of the government is causing fear and concern. It is worsening, instead of ensuring normality. In fact, you do not limit the legal acts in the economy. On the other hand, you are extending this practice to increasingly wider areas, as you are doing today with this bill. At the same time, while you are talking about a social crisis, you say nothing about unemployment, that is, the main factor in the social crisis, but you blame third parties and above you indiscriminately exaggerate everything and everyone. But how will we really deal with poverty when you are reluctant to invest? You have not yet implemented a policy of increasing incentives to create new jobs, increasing competitiveness, attracting investment, reducing state waste. On the other hand, you are also sending out those businesses that want to stay or in any case are thinking about coming to invest in the country. At the same time, you are delaying real poverty policies, such as the introduction of the minimum guaranteed income, for which the previous government laid the foundations. Ideologically you cannot coexist with the modern functioning of the economy. If you did serve, however little, a great purpose, namely social well-being for the next few years, you would really do the impossible - in order to make investments in the country. And yet, you're doing everything you can to get them out of here. Deal with reality at last. The only way for the economy to break off and the country to come out of the memoranda is to gain access to the markets. This requires recovery of the country's and the economy's confidence, credibility, determination and attraction of investments. Only in this way can the cost of borrowing again be reduced, the prices of Greek bonds fall on the international market, the economy recovers its positive assessment, and therefore it can be relatively cheap to ask for funds to finance and boost economies. In conclusion, I would like to say this. Are you running almost a year and I would like to ask you a very simple question, Minister: is the country today better than it was a year ago? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Dimas. The Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr. Poppas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u53	First of all, before I enter my main reference to the sanctions discussed by the legislative acts, I would like to place on today's important developments in the region of the Eastern Mediterranean, that is to say, to express the sympathy of our movement for the Russian people and for the Russian air force, which this evening lamentes two fallen against the fight against barbarism. It would be extreme today to ask this House to be placed accordingly, because in cases of the collapse of Greek fighter aircraft by the neighbouring state - murderers have avoided your parties from being placed. The names Iliakis and Salmas are unknown to the Greek Parliament, as well as the names Gialofos, Karathanase and Vlahakos, as well as the names of the Solomos and Isaac heroes. It would therefore be excessive on our part to ask that you be placed on the basis of the same religious fallen Russian operators who were shot down by the Turkish air force, this peace arsonist in the region, and who is being smuggled into international law, and who have been lynched by the Islamist para-state killers in an inhumane manner. Finally, anyway, you parties of the poorly called "constitutional arch", whether you thank the Americans or worship Mrs Merkel by saying yes to everything. But we differ from you in this respect: we are on the people's side. We're on the side of the law. And at this juncture we are also on the side of faith, but also on the side of the Russian people, with all the moral powers we have. I have not mentioned at random by telling you that you are wrongly taken - of course - to try to hit Golden Dawn - that you are the constitutional arch. On the contrary, you are the ones who are trespassing and dismantling the Constitution, and on the right and left. It is well known that legislative acts are in accordance with our Constitution, which is inappropriate in exceptional and exceptional circumstances, a way which is abusive, because it does not legislate in this House, namely Parliament, but the government, the executive. So you so-called parliamentarians are abolishing parliamentaryism themselves! The political system of Greece, the President-in-Office of the Parliamentary Republic, is fundamentally based on the separation of powers. In your case, in the legislative acts, as I said before, the executive is essentially legislation, something which is being done in this Chamber. The Member here does not vote conscientiously, but is voting according to the party line. I would remind you of the case of a Member of Parliament's accounting officer, who, when he voted here, against the party line, the Prime Minister himself then, Antonis Samaras, went up to the Chair and wrote to the Bureau a manuscript letter for the deletion of the Member. And it's not the only case. Yesterday, in your own government, even a left-wing MEP, he was under unbearable pressure from his colleagues and from the Prime Minister himself when, after his disagreement, he suffered a psychological war in order to deliver his seat. So that, ladies and gentlemen, is the democracy you represent! Not only do the democracy you represent falsely in this Chamber, but also in your own parties, where the institutions do not meet and the law and principle of the Head of State prevails. The government of SYRIZA, at the time that was safe antimony, in order to safeguard the votes of the Greek people, had declared their disobedience to the acts of legislation that was actually brought about at the time by the relentless government of Samaras. Mr Tsipras himself from the Stepmas had spoken of a democracy deficit here, he had spoken of a junta in the memorandum. But look, Minister, how life brings them. Not even the always-familiar liberal New Democracy Memorials who are absent at this time, because they have their own problems - the institutions in the New Democracy began! - they did not have your courage to bring twelve legislative acts to ratification such as those we are discussing here today. The deceived voter and also the disgusted political and political voter, who showed his abstention by abstention: Who is the junta and who is the democrat? In this political time divisions, values, ideologies of the past have disappeared. Right and left is revealed to be the same. They serve the same masters, dance at the pace of death, obeying their musical loan sharks, the enemies of the country, all those who put guilt on the Greek people, who all reproduced the "we have eaten them together". The Greek people, in other words, ate together with the politicians 280 billion euros, what is the Greek debt? And, incidentally, this amount of EUR 280 billion is far less than Germany's own loan and military compensation, which you left, as did the previous ones. This debt - EUR 280 billion - is therefore a small percentage of USD 61 trillion of 760 billion, which is international debt. Where's that money? Who's got that money? Who's got them? Who do we owe and why? You are using the Greek Parliament today in exactly the same way as the previous government used it. You made the House a swimming pool of Siloam. Use as a front and as a front your supposed leftism and do the completely opposite of what the so-called principles and your ideology defend. Unless it is consistent with your ideology that the existence of the first residence of the Greeks, in the context of the abolition of the property, as demanded by Marxism - Leninism, which some of you believe, continue to believe, since the icons of the saints - Marx and Lenin - honor your political offices, even offices in this building, of the Greek Parliament. The courage and strength given to you by a small majority of fifty-three Members of the House is translated into the euphoria of parliamentary procedures. One hundred and fifty three you have! One hundred and fifty supposed orthodox or atheists and three Muslims. These three are doing their homework and supporting the Greek Government. One hundred and fifty plus three. So the only thing that could justify today's procedure is your indebtedness, a reason that often government officials invoke. "We're infinite," they say. In practice, however, there is no inexperience. The state keeps going. And you've consciously received the Memorial Dog from the Samara government. That's why you're abdicating yourself from the Greek people. But you are also abdicated by the nationalist movement, from the Golden Dawn, because you have put the interests of the European Union and the international loan sharks above the interests of the banks. It took a few hours to break down the left cover of your ideology, with the famous negotiations, the nights of Mr. Tsipras. Your alleged inexperience is only justified in so far as you themselves, in today's legislative sanctions, namely, in Acts 1, 2, 3 and 4 concerning banks and capital controls - you needed four different acts of legislation on the same subject, which is a manifestation of your reorganisation and of your dangerous amateurism! Despite all the outrage in society, despite all the outrage within your own party, you intend to continue to rule in this way, rule retrospectively, rule under the pretext of urgency, deceive the Greek people, in good cooperation with the mass media, in order to maintain power and complete the work for which you are commanded, the task of destroying the Greek entity. Now, I am going to deal mainly with legislative acts: In legislative acts 1, 2, 3, 4 concerning capital controls and banks, do not expect us to say yes. Of course you will have a huge "no" from Golden Dawn. In practice 5, support for negotiation: no support for negotiation. We are saying 'no'. We would support a negotiation if it were a genuine negotiation with the European Union, we should put them down to see how much the European Union owes us, how much it has to give us to take out our olives, how much it must give us that we have abolished our fishing, which we have abolished the agricultural production, which we have closed up the industries, for the sake of the fraudulent dream that you and the New Democracy, that is, the European Union, have done away with the destruction of the Greek people. Act 6, on the floods of Evros, of course we support it, we say 'yes'. In practice 7, for the Ministry of National Defence: You have acted as a legislative act to cover the position of Mr Kostarakos in the European Union. Okay, well done. Mr. Kostarakos doesn't wear the narcotics. You abolished the national flag, the Greek flag. He's wearing the stars, the pedals on the sleeve. That's who you are! I put it in the Minutes, so the rest of the Members can see it. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above photograph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In practice 8, which concerns funds for illegal immigrants: we will laugh. Of course we say 'no'. In practice 9, we say 'no' for the smooth functioning of the TAs. I come to the point of law 10 on the proper functioning of school units. Which school units and what smooth operation? I have a kid who goes to school. He goes to high school. Have you been released to see what's going on in Greek high school, in high school? What orderly operation? Are you mocking us in this Chamber? In practice 11, we say 'no'. In practice 12, which deals with regulations on poverty: Indirectly you bring the citizen's card, the file, a card on all jobs and bring the card on illegal immigrants. They'll have light, water, telephone, social grocery store. The poor Greek will pay taxes, he'll normally pay, he'll pay a ticket. The “wrong ” with his card will go free! The only thing that exists within that, which we cannot of course vote on, is the paragraph that says about the CTEO, the extension they gave to the CTEO. We say 'no', therefore, in practice 12, but we note that for the KTEOs we would say 'yes' if it were a special article. I shall now conclude, Mr President. You also have three amendments, in the way you were shouting in this Chamber: 'Date-term amendment', you said to the previous government of Samara, 'it is not possible'. Amendment No 1: Late. What does she say? You give 1,8 million euros to your people at the Ministry of Finance. With 1,8m euros they would work two thousand four hundred of our synergies if the basic salary was 750 euros, this dream of fraud you were talking about. Seven hundred and fifty euros would get a wage of two thousand four hundred Greeks, currently falling. This amendment comes as a delay. Of course we say 'no'. Another amendment: this - other Members have said - is a separate bill. It's an intergovernmental agreement, intergovernmental. Why would that premiere bring that thing? Is that an amendment, so many pages? We are saying 'no'. Do I get tired of you? There is another amendment that is too late. We are saying 'no'. And we do not say 'no' because we are opposition, we say 'no' because you are the destruction of Greece!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u54	Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor from the Democratic Alliance. The Minister will then be followed by Mr Tsakalotos and we will continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, taking the floor at this particular moment, I would like first of all to emphasise the great need for this place to ensure democracy and humanity. I read the Prime Minister on two Sundays, who chose to throw the 'global' into dialogue. Of course, one could say 'good slower than never'. Let us, for example, take insurance. Today, Mr President, Mr Katrugalos' recommendation to the SYRIZA Political Secretariat has been seen through leakage. Ladies and gentlemen, not much after months, two months specifically after the elections, during which Minister and State Secretary disagreed with each other, dissociating themselves and speaking when to increase contributions, when to merge supplementary and main pensions and when to cuts, we finally had a leak of an official text. What does that say? He says three things. The first one says that the CSCE is being abolished. Not only is the CSCE abolished, but it turns CSCE into a minimum guaranteed income. Watch out. The minimum guaranteed income, which we have - Mr Kegeroglu, in particular, with a name - organises and implements pilots, we support. To abolish the ESS, however, and simply to put on the uninsured over-aged form such a minimum guaranteed income, as Mr Katrugalos suggests, is out of place and time. So, what do we do? We take the money from the poor retired man to go to the poor man. Impact downwards. Pre-election. Do you want to call it "muddling"? How do you like it better? But that's what you're doing. Second, increase in contributions. Since when and how can it withstand a recession, which you have brought back to the country after so many years while it has gone a little back towards growth? I'm not talking about success story. Mr Samaras said about success and, in other words, he dared to say Mr Tsipras. Leave the succes stores. At the time when the country was going to go back to development, even the slim one, we go back with procedures that eventually lead us to capital control and we are finally in the inestimable position to say today, Minister, that mail Hardouveli is simply a 'child pleasure'. We told you and you laughed. Unfortunately, that is the case, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Because through the increase in contributions, the abolition of the CSR and the reduction of pensions, which also contains the text of Mr Katrugalos, the Armageddon of the insurance company is attempting. Hey, you're not gonna find us accomplices in this! Because we have already told you since 14 August that we have put our backs so that the country does not fall into the void, but we are not going to consent to anti-development, fundamental and counter-reform measures. So we come here, Minister, to discuss twelve draft legislative acts. I do not want to do what my colleagues have done a moment ago because you have heard it and you do not have to hear it from me. How many times you've told us "guts"! And the President of Parliament himself, Mr. Voutsis, I remember two - three years ago he said "these are inspirational things and you do not have the courage to bring these legislation under normal procedures of Parliament". Same thing happened now. Only I heard Mr. Famello say how you want to save the country. When we told you this, then you called us 'Cholacoglou'. I will not do the same, Minister. I will not call you 'Cholacoglou', neither you nor the parliamentary majority. You may collaborate with extreme right-wing and ethnicists, but you are not "Cholacoglou", obviously. It's got to end this little fairy tale once. You owe not to us, but to the world that you fooled so bitterly and sadly. And finally, you also devoured us on legislative acts. You are currently bringing the ratification of an MDG which, in fact, came without any reason at all. This is not unconstitutional, it is undemocratic and interferes with the very spirit of the Constitution. What's that? It is your obsession, your ideological obsession, with'so I want', to make the Greek universities horribly, introverted and reintroduced all sorts of long-term complications in there - and my group, because it is not time, ladies and gentlemen, for us to look at anything - from all sides. There was a story there, but there were also serious, supposedly, orders of your own and "built" teachers and violence and lawlessness. The only thing that didn't exist before n. 4009/2011 was to have a freedom of thought, academic freedom and freedom of meditation within universities. Minister, you, like me, are a university. I want you to admit here that there was no emergency. And two days before the Prime Minister comes and announces a dialogue on education. I mean, you're crashing through PPA, unconstitutional, n. 4009/2011 and you ask for the other consensus? By whom and why? Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just this levelling-down plan. It is not just the idea of ending with anything innovative, extroverting, open to education and not just education. Unfortunately, it is also an inability. Because at the moment we are talking, Minister, 70% of the full-day schools in Eastern Attica - and I know what I am talking about, because I am being elected there - are closed. The whole day's schools are just closed! [[At this point, the first Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, takes over the presidential office.]] Will we vote on this legislative act, which would resolve the matter? And when was this inability to solve the problem once? There were voids, time problems. So come into real dialogue. Take back the measures, Balta. Take back the retreat of excellence. Take it all back and come on, have a dialogue. In such a dialogue, however, you do what you want, as you want in dictatorial ways, we will not follow you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. The Minister for Finance, Mr Eukleidis Tsakalots, has the floor for eighteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the ratification of acts of legislation and other provisions and the three amendments. The debate was much more consumed by who was responsible for capital controls. I think that all the arguments have been made. I'll talk two or three minutes, so then we'll go to the point of the case. There are two accounts here of how we got to capital controls. The New Democracy and PASOK account is that things were going well towards the end of 2014, that we returned to growth, that we returned to the markets, that we could escape this crisis, with difficulties, of course, but it was within our field of view. He doesn't answer this account to a number of problems: why didn't you close your fifth evaluation? Why didn't you get money from summer? How would you pay the public's needs after you knew we had to reach 4.5% primary surplus? How could you pay back without something about the debt, the big payments - which was not normal - as we dealt with them in July and August? How could you convince investors to invest in a country that never had a corridor before to know when investors can invest and how much they can invest? Of course your account is over by the fact that the poor SYRIZA - ANEL government has come and destroyed everything, tried to negotiate and failed to reach the capital controls. The other story says something very different. The other record says that you were not close to recovery, that you had not closed the fifth evaluation, that a part of the alliance told you that we have red lines without at the same time explaining how these red lines would not lead to conflict. Unless the red lines of PASOK were not too red and they would find a solution. And if they found a solution, why didn't you find a solution before? Because, if your narrative is true, it could have been solved and you would have convinced the independent Members that they would have voted for the President of the Republic, because you did not tell the House that you had the record to escape. If you had finished your fifth assessment, if you had taken the debt debate, then you would have convinced them. You didn't convince them about that. And there's a government that actually had a conflict. It changed things in Europe. There was a discussion and Greece was at the heart of all the discussions. All Europe is now discussing how and how the debt will be reduced. All Europe is talking about and saying that something is changing. Something changes in Portugal, something changes in Spain. The whole of Europe is looking at a part of social democracy that is changing, rethinking and looking again. It may not be done at our party, at the Social Democratic Party, but elsewhere I see that this change exists. We see a Europe that still has conflicts. In the European People's Party in Madrid a month ago you had a straight and honest exchange of views, that is, you fought about whether Merkel was open to immigrants and refugees. These are the big debates, Europe is changing, and now it will be judged whether it will be Europe of solidarity, because it is redirecting the question of whether Europe will be open. And precisely because there is the issue of refugees, many have made the connection to this tolerance that we must show to refugees and solidarity at the moment about the dramatic things that have been done in Paris. This solidarity is to be extended, to be part of the European acquis and to be able to manage this. Does anyone of the New Democracy - or one of the New Democracy, anyway - think that if it were Mr Samaras Prime Minister, that would be the debate on the Greeks and we would take the good news from all over Europe, why did we show this European aspect, tolerability, that we want to find a solution for refugees? Is there even a Member of Parliament who believes that? If it were Mr Samaras Prime Minister in the country, that is exactly how he would have dealt with the issue of refugees and been in this debate on solidarity and would have been in this debate on a different Europe, with different values? I can't believe it. I do not believe that you even believe it, how much on the part of Parliament to believe it. That's the difference. SYRIZA has always believed and always believes that conflicts will take place on values, conflicts will take place on prototypes, in political ones. We think that we have a plan for how we can be involved in this debate, also with conflict and consent. That is why in Europe, which we think is changing, we are proud to be the catalyst for these debates. Why look where Greece was a year ago and where Greece is now, which one of your colleagues from New Democracy asked if it was better or worse for Greece. Look at the general prestige of Greece, which they are discussing not only for refugees, but also for economics. We are now intervening when I go to the Eurogroup, - twenty-three minutes the debate on Greece - and we are doing a great deal of intervention, because it should be the budgetary policy of all of Europe and how this European policy cannot continue, when we know that it has failed and the financial results are so poor. That's the difference. We were not provincial, to sit down and say that it is only a Greek problem and to hear from people that we are to blame for everything, that we all ate it together, that the Greeks have to change. Of course, Greece must also change, but we know that there were many transnational problems that needed supranational solutions. These are the two narratives. These two narratives can be discussed again, but I think there is not much reason. We can go forward. I think the Greek people judged these two narratives and made their decisions in front. I am now going to the act of legislation relating to capital controls. Having agreed with Mr Constantopoulos that the results of the Capital Controls were not as bad as we expected - it is not the same that the results would be bad and Mr Constantopoulos also agreed - I would like to tell you why the results of the Capital Controls were not as bad as we expected, that is, that we limited the negative results in our actions. That's very important. Because at first, when capital controls were in place and rejoicing on some aspects of Parliament, the IMF told us it would be less than 4% growth this year and constantly changing that figure. It's at 2.3%, and now it's 1.3%, and I have to tell you it's probably even less than that. Why? Not that there were many cases which were not very bad, not that we had no negative effects, but from the actions of this government we reduced these negative effects. From the outset, for example, we knew that the financial implications of the capital controls are very important. That is why our first concern - and not only that of the government, I must admit, but it was also in cooperation with the Bank of Greece - was to reduce these effects. We knew, in other words, that we should focus on the current account and not on the balance sheet. We should have been tough on the fund account. So we focused on the current account, namely where imports come from - and as you know 60% to 70% of Greek imports are intermediate products - so that importers can access the imports they needed to export. And we did so with great success. We were then constantly liberalising the system so that imports could continue. Immediately we had interventions on tourism, so that tourists can get through ATM cards, through credit cards, to have no problem with them. We kept doing other things. We were trying to liberalise the system for social reasons, instead of making fifty euros or sixty euros a day, you can make four hundred twenty euros a week, which is a thousand and eighty euros a month. I have to tell you that the EUR six hundred eighty per month is a double amount of average income declared in Greece by tax declarations. So a thousand six hundred eighty euros is not a very small amount. The first time we had social care for certain classes and specific people with specific problems. In each bank there was one person who could go beyond this, if someone needed it for a hospital or for another social need. If we take all this together, I think we can say that it was not a good thing for capital control, which had a financial impact on imports. But if you're with our account, I think you need a "bravo" on how we handled this capital control. Mrs. Asmakopoulou, don't look at me like that. You should know that this 'bravo' is taken from all the institutions. The International Monetary Fund in Lima said it was impressed by the fact that we managed to manage capital controls in such a way and have so little impact on the real economy. This could leave you out loud. It's okay. Let it be.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u58	I shall secondly, Minister, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u59	Of course, I will listen to you with great interest, as always. That should be the debate: how a government, which arrived here, which had these conflicts, had before it the imposition of some agreement and had to have these capital controls without wanting to do so, managed these capital controls, that is, flexibly used these capital controls, how it slowly entrusted the banks and not the Commission with more and more liberalisation, so that there is more and more flexibility within the system. Before I finish my speech, I would like to say two, three things for the three amendments that we have before us. The first amendment concerns the agreement which is the result of the banking union and the amounts needed to clear the banks. As you know, through the banking union there will be a European banking clearing institution and all the states have agreed a sum of their own funds to go to this general European fund. This will take eight years to run out and to be all at European level. I think you're not right, Mr. Colleague, on this. It's not a lack of sovereignty. When the European institution is a European institution, that makes the banks stronger. You can criticise me, as you criticise all over Europe, that this is not enough and that it is a European unification of the banks that has many shortcomings, because it has no European guarantee of depositors. There's a lot of trouble to talk about. I do not think, however, that what you are saying is some of these problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u60	Constitutionality... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u61	Look, when unification takes place, the basic decision is if you give away some sovereignty to have collective European sovereignty that strengthens you. That's the argument. The main argument we have to discuss every time, when you grant some sovereignty, is whether, after what is at European level, regulation becomes a higher level and gives you greater security, a greater perspective for growth. That is the main political argument we have to make. And from our point of view it provides this. We give some sovereignty, some money goes to the European level, that gives more security to our banks. That's not good enough. It's a can for this banking union. I think many economists would agree with you, but not for that reason. The second amendment concerns the employees who came with the 1K system from the AACS. They're not our kids, like you said. That was very unfair, and I wanted to explain about it. These are children who have come after the changes in payroll in the Ministry of Finance, who do not get the difference that the European Union has compensated them, when wages have been reduced very much, but they are children who have 700 and 800 euros, who have masters, who have a doctorate, who are trying to get through and control businesses, which is not easy to do when they have a wage of EUR 700 and 800. We have a huge problem with these people's list, because they're quitting. I mean, unless you're an Athenian or Thessalonikiian and you live where you work, it's a great difficulty to spend 800 euros and do this very important job, which is central. They're not our kids, we don't give them because they're our kids. We are barely giving them more than that, because they are doing the most important job of avoiding tax evasion, which is dealing with, which will alleviate the low and middle layers when we are successful. Right now, we have a list, and this list is exhausted, because kids either take their place and eventually they don't take it or quit the list before they even get into work or are at work and quit. We have a huge weakness in the tax system, and we need these new children, because, as you can see, apart from the masters and doctors, they have much more knowledge, much better experience with the software, which has not been the employees who have come before. The last amendment concerns how they are paid, whether from the state budget or from the regions, some officials, who are, I think, rational and I do not think anyone will be able to object to this bill. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat the arguments I have said about the two narratives, but I really think we should look forward and see what we believe from now on. Destroying is helping the Greek economy right now? Is it possible to get the Capital Controls out much earlier than we thought? I think it's quite possible. And it is quite possible that, because we had excellent management, as I am sure Mrs Asimakopoulou will soon be persuaded, we did not have the great range of capital control. I mean, don't forget that in general, when economists talk about capital control, they say you can't have a credit card, that you can't have e-banking, that you can't make money from the country, that you can't put money in the country. None of this was true in Greece. So I think if there's a strategy that is a government roadmap that we're ending with recapitalisation, we're closing the first assessment, there's a debt debate, my prediction is that the capital controls will be gone much earlier than we thought this would be a success in difficult times, which no one will triumph, but no one can accept such criticism in the way they did. And it was also carried out by parties which, in my view, had to be more balanced in their criticism, more balanced between the failure of one government and the other government. And I think that some parties that were not in the previous government today did not prove this balance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u62	We thank the Minister for the finance, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, and for the consistency in time. Mr Andreas Loverdos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u63	Minister, before I go into this, I would like to ask you with very careful wording, if you are certainly not competent, but if there is a first sense of government, a first opinion of what is being unfolded near our country by the abolition of Russian aircraft from Turkey. This is a very sensitive issue and it gives rise to too many concerns. It's not for easy announcements or statements. However, it also gives rise to too many concerns if some break the front against ISIS. And since we are well on our own issues, and these are our capitals, but we must bear in mind everything that concerns our region, our country, but ultimately Europe and the world, I stress that this is a very worrying fact and I address you in this way. You can tell me something or you can't tell me. Your silence is understandable. I heard the first six to seven minutes of your speech with real questions. Is it possible to think that, if the question were addressed to a citizen, "Dear friend, dear sir, when was it better on November 24, 2014 or 2015?" would it provide the answer you gave? There is no citizen who answers that way. Many times it can be reserved, to say "let's see them". He can think in a way perhaps more distant than ours. But you should be tempted to rejoice that there are citizens who say 'the best thing this year' is not possible. Only party blindness causes these thoughts. And I wonder how you would think when the days of November are the days when the last government, which you dropped, suggested that the election days be. Let's just wait for the election to take place right now. It has charged the country a number of billions for Mr Tsipras to take over the Prime Minister. The same had happened on a smaller scale with Mr Samaras in 2012. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we are suffering from these. Because many times - this is the most characteristic - the whole political dialogue turns around issues of power capture. That's your bet. Take over authority. But power in the midst of a crisis leaves stacks, Minister. And there is no Minister for the Crisis - and you, of course - who have to deal with dilemmas, which one side is positive, that is, they have a good and bad one. All dilemmas are negative. Negative alpha version, negative and beta version. And you choose between two unpleasant versions. Charles de Goll has said something about it. But, in times of such economic crisis, which lasts so many years, I imagine that now that you're in the government, you understand what we mean. Ladies and gentlemen, when you brought the legislative act, I welcomed you as PASOK Parliamentary spokesman, saying 'good children!', because I remember what all my colleagues have said and it is not worth mentioning again. Then you have condemned in a very bad, ugly, aggressive and unacceptable way our own intentions for parliamentarians in the end. But you have made a record: within very little time and you personally brought most legislative acts, compared to your previous colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, I had tabled such a small enquiry and again, of course, mentioning specific numbers: the fewer acts of legislation, judging their number with the duration of the government, made George Papandreou and Mr Venizelos as the Minister of Finance and most of them seem to be you. Because, within three months, you did nine, plus five, Varoufakis, a total of fourteen. You haven't closed as a government in ten months yet and you've done most analogues, and you as Minister most of them. However, he has nothing to do with your election self, who had denounced these methods of legislation. And now something is happening for the first time in Parliament - Mr Fotella, I was telling you underneath - not in the years of crisis, that the man here took over after Varoufakis, in any case, changed policy, went to the Memorandum, you can understand it. There is no phenomenon in parliamentary times that we have so many acts of legislation in such a short time. I'm going to resubmit this little investigation into the Government's Writing Leaf. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Loverdos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned conclusion, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, within them -12 paragraph 6 - it is the characteristic example of the regulation that is not linked to an extraordinary and unforeseen event, as the Constitution requires. Inadmissible - but firmly - your position to abolish the boards at universities, to abolish their basic competence in relation to the promotion of the Republican authorities has found an expression with regulation in an act of the legislative content of Mr Friend's now, after the second elections. And while you are doing so now in the draft law on pastures, you have a provision that concludes the Syrian state in education, the Prime Minister is calling on us to take the lead in education, security and refugee into national dialogue, after meeting the President of the Republic, in order to convene the political parties that have democratic and European orientation in a common position. What dialogue is this when you resolve these issues in the most unacceptable way that we are hostile to him? You're kidding, you want votes to pass the insurance. That's what you're doing. You're looking for victims, you idiots. We say 'yes' in this national dialogue, 'yes' in a dialogue to draw up a national plan together, which will also aim to see that there is a majority of more than two hundred Members in this Chamber who inspire government stability. We have said so before the elections and as a sign of our democracy to abolish the bonus of the fifty seats. It is the proposal addressed to you by the President of our party on Saturday by the meeting of our political council which responded to these invitations. We've been through this, we've been over it. But while we talk about it - and you are supposed to be saying it - you come here and bring with Mr Phile, with what Mr Katrugalos said today in your party bodies, what you have already decided, and for which we are being asked as parliamentary minions. We don't exist for that. It will never happen - if there is a condition for alpha beta gamma, which I mentioned before, let us see - as long as you take this process with all that you are doing on matters which are not related to the memoranda - it is related to your mind and your political approaches - that there is a consensus. Tens of the Democratic Compact will not give! Keep it clean on your mind. I mentioned, dear Members, one case of what you are calling on us to ratify today and which we will not ratify, because we will say 'no' to you and to the beginning of this draft law, but also to the much more legislative acts which it includes, other than those relating to the start of the school year, to deal with the crisis in Evros and another case. Our rapporteur will tell you this. Ladies and gentlemen, the first five acts of legislation are the acts of the capital control time. And the first of them is to enforce them by your decision on that terrible Sunday. I read, in view of this debate, my speech in plenary on that fatal Saturday, which was enthusiastically brought here to the National Representation of the referendum. Mr. Mada, I remember outside the offices of your parliamentary group how happy you were to operate that morning. I think you were a secretary at the time. I'd seen you because our offices were close. You thought you were really doing something and you were consistent with what you said before and after that. And when the sitting was held this afternoon, I had gone up to speak as rapporteur for our refusal. What the Prime Minister said as the first to make the referendum, namely that he had requested an extension of the second programme, was announced that the European Central Bank rejects it. And I was telling Mr. Voutsi who was taking the legislative initiative here: are you changing your mind now? We're getting out of programme. We're uncovered. We're out of funding. We'll have problems. You've solved everything! But you haven't solved it. And the next day - why didn't you come back - we invited you to get it back, not to have the referendum, which so badly accumulated. We invited you here, for an entire afternoon and a whole night and you did not change your mind and went to all the things you went to. The next day you imposed the capital controls. And it was your fault! And you opposed, with different positions of your staff, who imposed them, as if the bad Europeans, the European Central Bank, who could not have done anything else. Besides, the Prime Minister, as he did not know what a maritime border is, did not know what that is. It was the bad guys, it was the others, it was the Europeans. It wasn't your fault for them. For those, like the current President of Parliament, it was your decision. This is the truth, and here is the act of legislation and they are, ladies and gentlemen, the end of the first phase of the drama that bears your name. From that Sunday and then we enter the second phase of the drama that bears your name and which we are living at the moment. You're a metacopy. Your guy is Diligiannis, he is the Bulgarian, the famous "Jubes". Your metagraph is that you are in the 21st century. That's what you are. The recapitalization that took place now and for which the Minister celebrates...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u64	I'm not going home. That's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u65	Okay. I hold your phrase - I do not remember exactly when you said it a few days - that 'it is our success, which we cannot deal with.' I know how you said it and I don't blame you. I said it in my speech then, I weighed it in the way I said it, and not overreacted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I am not going to answer that question either. However, ladies and gentlemen, when we lived on the terrible days of the referendum and the capital control, I said that an investor buys the entire Stock Exchange with 5 billion, all the shares. When you said about the 50 billion, I said that the situation of the Greek economy, as you became, enables an investor to buy the entire Greek Stock Exchange with 5 billion. And I was overreacting. I knew it. And since I am not a demagogator, nor a populist, I have taken care to accompany my argument with the words 'I speak in excess'. Come now that I didn't talk too much, come now that with 5.5 billion - the highest - foreign investors bought all systemic banks! Your recapitalisation has too many problems. He lost the public through the Financial Stability Fund. They lost strategic and large investors. Institutional investors and stockholders lost. They lost the insurance funds. The Church's lost. They didn't lose the depositors, but don't go on for that, because you look like that mentally disturbed mentally burdening his head on the wall and it hurts and because he stops hitting it, the pain passes on to him and says "I'm fine now, I've done it." That's what this is about. This is your success! You brought the country to 'approximately five', to go to the banks' deposits and to a recapitalisation of this level - for which responsibilities will be requested, there is no case, it is clear, and you will see the relevant dialogue how it will develop not by us, by society itself - you are coming and saying now: 'We have done it'. You didn't make it. This act of legislation is an act that will characterise you as an act of unfavourable to the Greek people, unnecessarily, like other things, such as the third memorandum, which your policy has made it necessary. And now it begins and seems that you are paying as political persons and as government the hands of your political choices. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people have paid them in their pocket. With tricks you can no longer escape, with the book Mars Velouchiotis by hand or the media law - which, write it, will be boomerag for the government and the government majority - or the invitations to protests against you. I remember the Vice-President of the Government talking about the rural rally, in which he saw a reaction, which is, in any case, acceptable to the SYRIZA side. The rally was dealt with with with smokers and wood. What you were saying as a trick - we have no problem being the world at the rally and the protests being large - fell, they were shot down in practice, because you hit the world. With such tricks, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, ladies and gentlemen of the government, it is not coming out. We are voting against. I repeat, Mr Kegeroglu said so in his introduction, as my other colleagues did. But, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, the major debate on the budget for the year 2016 is opening. There we will see both 2015 and the previous years, but we will see above all the time coming. We will try to help with all our powers so that parliamentary dialogue is the right one, namely a dialogue that will enlighten the Greek people and make the political choices for all of us and for all of us and the Democratic Asylum PASOK - DIMAR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. I shall give the floor now to some speakers. Mr. Tasoulus from New Democracy has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u67	The bill we are discussing and of which you will allow me not to pronounce the title, because I will lose half the time of my speech - it is a sine qua non - which is a bill of great interest in the political behaviour of the coup d'état and in relation to its conduct in terms of taking its responsibilities. I have read these days that the Ministry of Education will launch a public debate, starting with the Committee on Educational Affairs, on changing the method of teaching the history lesson in schools. This is a very interesting project. I think it's challenging. And that is what I mean in relation to what the rulings say about the closeness of legislative acts, which they will vote for today and for which they do not have the slightest responsibility, because they are products of extortion and circumstances that have been formed by their political opponents, by neoliberalism in Europe, by international capital, by the masonian, by all those which constitute our innocence. Listen. There are two ways of dealing with his responsibilities, which he has sought to take. They were not commissioned by any divine welfare, were commissioned by the Greek people, the sovereign, and not the misled one. I disagree with my quotation that considers the Greek people misled. The Greek people are not misled. The Constitution calls it sovereign in the first article. That's how I deal with him, and with that claim I'm dealing with him. He's a sovereign, and when he votes for you, and when he doesn't vote for you. The Greek people are always dominating. The theory of the losers that the people were misled by the winners is appalling for the level of the Greek people. For dare to add how many times is the Greek people misled and then what kind of people is it that is constantly misled? Why don't we ever say that? Why, while we say he's misled, do we dare say what are those who are constantly misled? The Greek people are therefore not misled. The Greek people voted for SYRIZA in the knowledge of what he was voting for. Except this knowledge did not include SYRIZA's program. If the Greek people voted for the SYRIZA programme, then in September they would vote for Mr Lafazani, who was loyal to the SYRIZA programme. He wasn't voting for what you were saying. It had reached such a point of distress, anger, indignation, bitterness, displeasure, confusion that the Greek people actually voted against, did not vote for you. You're lucky. The Greek people don't ask you too much, because they didn't notice what you were saying. He punished the previous ones, that is, us. That's how it's usually done. We are voting against, we are not voting. We know more what we don't want than what we want. This must be corrected. And this correction is an opportunity to begin with the teaching of the lesson in history. Today in Thessaloniki, Eleftherios Venizelos, with the state of Thessaloniki, built a second state by breaking down the unity of the Greek state, joined the great alliance of the winners of World War I. Greece has barely benefited from victory and participation in World War I on the winners side. The same Eleftherios Venizelos did not come to be buried, did not pass from Athens with fear of incidents. Deligiannis, for whom Mr. Loverdos said earlier that he was expressed by SYRIZA today, did not allow a ship of the Hellenic Navy to go to bring the remains of Charilaos Trikoupi from abroad to be buried. These must be taught, as we must learn, that, apart from the celebrations of victory in Salamis, which were recently made by the government, nine years after the victory of Salamis, the Athenian people banished the winner of Salamis democratically. He banished Themistocles nine years later, the same people. Are we ever going to accept taking on our responsibilities, or are we going to keep whining that we are the slaves of certain forces, with the aim of bringing the wealthy people of Greece to bear? Do you know how charming it is to be responsible? For once try to confuse what is to blame for the closure of the banks. Once tell yourself at night in front of the mirror and then forget about it. You'll feel huge relief. You're charmed by automation. You're charmed by the idea that we're victims of a global conspiracy. You're interested in avoiding responsibility. Try once to be responsible. You are responsible for all fourteen acts of legislation. You are responsible for the fact that you have been lying all these years that those who act on legislative matters are coups, despairers of parliamentism and hated organs or wages - because there are also fools - foreign interests. Once upon a time, admit that he bears the signature of your Ministerial Council and Mr Varoufakis with two 'n' - and I suspect that this is the reason why the act should be offended to the Council of State because his name is with a 'n', he obviously did the two 'n' as a last act of resistance - to admit that he bears your signature. And every man over eighteen years has a responsibility to sign it. There is a sequence of speakers here who say that for these fourteen acts of legislation you are not responsible for. I claim that we too are responsible for what we have done and you are responsible for your lies and what you are doing. The attempt to justify them by saying that you are the victims, at least, causing to me such a question and abhorrence, which I sincerely envy you for this resistance in reality. I'd like to know when to have it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Well, to get this over with, positive acts have been done, done and done. I don't doubt you doing it. I understand the exceptional circumstances, but you understand that exceptional circumstances were before. We are going to vote for some of them, which you have not even thought of doing. You didn't even vote for school travels. And finally, now that terrorists are putting bombs on the employers' link in Greece, now that Turkey is crushing Russian planes around us, now that things are extremely difficult, you realize that the only way to go a little better or much better than we are going is not the communication calls of national dialogue. The national dialogue is a numb or trick in Greece that invokes those who want to blame elsewhere, those who do not know what to do or those who have conflicted with reality and have been crushed. We do not lack national dialogue or even dialogue. We lack national consciousness and national behaviour. We lack national responsibility. And as a first step of national responsibility, I invite you this evening to vote for fourteen legislative acts, to tell yourself, 'Yes, I am responsible for fourteen legislative acts'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Tasoula. The Parliamentary spokesman from the River Mr. Spyridon Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u69	Let another colleague speak, Mr President, and speak immediately afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u70	No objections. Mrs. Kefalidou from the Democratic Compact for seven minutes is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the revolutionary shepherds of SYRIZA still ring in our ears in this Chamber as Opposition. To keep in mind what was said, I will speak about the current SYRIZA, the'second time left', which, when it is remembered to be a government - usually a final moment and an arable one - is inspired by a Soviet-type conception of the exercise of executive power. Then, when SYRIZA is compelled to take a break from his opposition and rule, the pillars of parliamentary democracy alone go for walk, institutions, separation of powers, parliamentaryism. The rhetoric of the rule of law, democracy, equal opportunities, the social person of power is the remnant of the only era of the anti-immemorandum revolution. Today's SYRIZA, with the line ANEL, feels the comfort of bringing about last-minute bills, legislating by legislative acts, speaking on behalf of justice and replacing in a night, by concise or inexistent procedures, public officials. He has no problem putting VAT on education, putting him on the calf, taking him out of the beer, putting him on a special tax on wine, raising the limits on the protection of borrowers, increasing the advances on taxes retrospectively. If you understand, within ten months you've made any progress. Who told you, gentlemen, that the Memorandumary Obligations justify circumvention of the Constitution? You are currently bringing in a bill of 12 different MDGs, i.e. twelve substantive laws that have not been passed by the legislature. How many of them have had the necessary element of the urgent, unpredictable event, which presupposes the Constitution? Two? Three? Is it accidental that your sometimes-populated Members are not in the Chamber today to defend this bill? Your tactics really outweigh us. The House is watching a government that decides in closed hotel rooms, and then we are called on to vote on what is being served. It's kind of a critical committee of a game, and here we play on the back of the Greek people one of the darkest thrillers in our history. You say, "Our main concern is the exit of our country from the fiscal crisis and a new development model, the reconstruction of the Greek economy and of entrepreneurship in general, the attraction of investment" and you assure us that you are trying to shape the right environment for their better and faster implementation." Where's all this? In closing the banks at the peak of the tourist season, the only sector still in operation in Greece, or did I tell you - unpunished and the recurring of VAT, or in 'if we find them dark, we are also making a referendum - 'fiesta' and then interpret the results according to the treaties, or in the August elections notice? With PPAs, will you reconstruct the Greek economy? Last summer there were foreigners small, but many - not large institutional but important - investors who wanted to buy ready or even build holiday homes in the Greek region. But they couldn't open a bank account because of the capital controls what do they think they did? Did SYRIZA expect to take out an act of law that excludes from capital controls the opening of accounts for the purchase of property? So, after having taken their baths and enjoyed the Greek summer, they went and bought somewhere else. Simple as that! You have no idea of the consequences of your actions or of your failures in the real economy. I wonder what might be the fault of all this foreign, non-ruler and non-continuous governmental tactic. It seems that in the government's collective memorial tomb the exercise of power is identical to populism. This is what happens when a protest movement is transformed into a party of power. That's why you rule like this with populism. The democratic dialogue, the exchange of views, the institutions, the foundations of parliamentaryism, do not fit in your government with the pain of soul, of course, as in every debate you remind us of, your bad lenders are pressing. As self-proclaimed protectors of the deceased weak, you alone do not want the harsh antimony measures. But you are voting for horizontal cuts, you are introducing a national hunger pension, you are increasing contributions, you are abolishing the ESS. You yourself are fighting the memorials, even the one you voted for and you have asked us to vote with you this summer. You alone feel sorry for the immigrants. This is your drama. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Your "always and forever" revolutionary past cannot match positions of power and responsibility, because they go hand in hand. I must remind you, however, that in parliamentary democracy even the hardest policies remain the product of political dialogue and political confrontation even at the most difficult times. This is the democracy for which you are being cut, and in practice you do not even tolerate it. Somehow this explains the urgency of the majority of your bills and the abuse of the most grey anticipation of the Constitution, i.e. acts of legislative content, which are leftovers of other dark times. The recipe, however, of the exhaustion of the time that you are rocking yourself and oaths are coming out of the battlefield waiting for laurels for your honorable struggle - but always proudly defeated - ends with the latest tolerances of Greek taxpayers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Find another recipe. We do not vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u72	Thank you to Mrs. Charia Kefalidou from the Democratic Association. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, has the floor for twelve minutes, from which we apologise for the whole delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. An old proverb said "Pesse - drop the herd, make the lady and want". Forgive me for that expression. I, too, slowly begin to think that there is a Prime Minister who wants to commit himself politically and while holding a referendum, then closes the banks to lose it. This would be a global originality that would never have been done over and over again in any country. I believe that it is still a hot period and it may take some years to record the objective reality of the future. What I want to remind the honourable speakers, particularly the opposition, is that, if they are well remembered, that referendum, which is so much trying to deceive, some others have tried to take care of it and are out of Parliament. That night - to be explained - some other things were done, for example, I did not have the right to self-determination. I have to remember them. I've always been a Europeanist. I've always been in favour of the euro. I've said it, and I've written it. At that time, I did not have the right to self-determination at that time. I wanted to get the country out of the euro and from the Eurozone. At the same time, the channels, as they didn't have to, were lyssing from morning to night - Friday night - that depositions of 8 grand or more will get tired, plus closed banks. I think it is a historic moment that some are trying to blur it deliberately. My view was, is, is and will remain that this referendum was the final answer to those who had planned that government's parentheses. They got a sound answer and they switched trots from then on. This is in terms of capital controls. We'll see in the future. I have a duty to distinguish a man who's a member of the board. the European Central Bank, Mario Draghi. Those who know the background to that story were one of the people who advised at the time and said that only in wars the banks are closing down. And yes, the deal expired on Tuesday, but it could be extended for another seven days. I say again, only in wars is what happened. I close parentheses and go to another matter: I have heard with a very large stud that the stock prices have actually depleted. And all responsibilities are attributed to the rule of SYRIZA - Independent Greeks. I am obliged, however, because memory has to come back from time to time, to recall who has reappointed the banking system, in what way and where we have arrived: Has he escaped you if five bankers of that time under your nose are indicted today? I don't want to say their names. When the other guy's downstairs, there's no point in digging. Has it escaped you that the banking system was devalued when with smurfs and other nonsense you borrowed with 808 million canalarchs? Has it escaped you that the thousands of three hundred borrowers under your nose, without any guarantee, took 5 billion from the Agricultural Bank? Has it escaped you that your Minister in 2011 tried to put 100 million into Proton Bank, for which - to refresh your memory - five inspectors of the Bank of Greece had said, “No, Mr Provopoule, do not give the bank to..., ” I do not want to say his name? But he took it from the bank, and he's undercover and confiscated, and he's still a dozen more. And a month later, it even went through an amendment - at night! - who questioned the minister who made this move. I could talk to you by morning with examples of how you then devalued the banking system. That is the answer because the shares did collapse. And they pounded. But I want to say something else. Today we're talking, I want to look forward. First of all, the recession is at zero. Some people said they were down there. It's not. The recapitalisation of the banks is almost complete. A key condition for not making a haircut on January 1, 2016. I would also like to remind you of Novotni - the central Austrian banker - and many others consider the debt regulation to be taken into account. It hasn't happened yet. But it is almost certain that it will be done. And it's also a key point, because if they don't leave our necks over 100 billion, the country will never walk, which you - or many of you, not all of you - said that debt is sustainable. I would also like to remind you that today the 'FINANCIAL TIMES', but also three hundred newspapers around the planet, are prosecuting that the country or at the end of 2016 or at the beginning of 2017 may come out on the markets. I would also like to ask you, because I have listened to extreme words, such as'sorry', 'true', 'true', etc., to mitigate the tone a little. Do your self-criticism. I believe that it will help you, as would the great and respected party of the New Democracy. If he had done his self-criticism in a proper way, he wouldn't take what he's pulling today. It's not bad to be honest. And I want to say something about Nikos Dendias. I remember he was the only one who said: "Hey, guys, we've lost. Let's say the reasons..." and so on. They didn't hear him. He became an unwanted person. He kept the same violin. But the world did not hear you, as it did not hear you both in January and in the referendum and in the last elections. No one triumphs. We are going through a possessed period, perhaps the hardest of the creation of the Greek nation. We know. We're having a fight, though. And we made mistakes, and we made choices. No objections. And we're infinite. One thing, however, will not be allowed in this Chamber all of us who support this government: the hand to honey will not put it! What I'm telling you, write it right in your mind. And for me, a big part - not all of it! - the civilian staff, unfortunately, put his hand in the honey! I do not want to remind you of examples. Rethink the word'shock', the word 'thrax' and the words 'apologise'! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u74	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr Papachristopoulos. The European Parliamentary Representative for the River, Mr Dannelis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a bill which includes most legislative acts, at least post-government. Unfortunately, this is another first of the SYRIZA - ANEL governments. Every one of the legislative acts we are called upon to ratify this evening is a genuine proof of amateurism, as well as proof of the government's foreign negotiation during the summer. It is the merchandise of the ideoleptic manipulations in an unknown until a precedent for you, that of the European commitments of the country. A grid, that is, of interrelated obligations, but also of rights that you tried to blackmail during your first governance as other Somali pirates in Europe. You welcome, Minister, the breach you have caused in Europe and especially in European social democracy. Unfortunately, on the contrary, you have not been able to take advantage of the intra-European conflicts that have existed and have occurred in recent years. You could not understand who the nature and potential allies were, which you did not join in the negotiation phase. This is because of your participation in a marginal European group, that of the GUE, the Left, which is marginal not for its small size, but because it refuses to contribute and participate in a dialogue on the major changes that have already taken place for years in the European Left, in social democracy, in the Greens and also in the liberals. So you didn't open a breach. There's a breach. The point is you didn't use it. You blamed the banks, whose usefulness you chose to ignore, and at the end you brought an act of legislation that imposed the capital controls. And you are convinced that the Greek citizens were gradually getting used to the commitment threshold of EUR 60. You forgot, however, to calculate the enormous damage caused to the real economy. Unemployment has escalated, budgetary revenue has been taken down, while small and medium-sized enterprises have reached its limit. Have you really calculated how many enterprises have been closed down in this period, how many companies have moved their headquarters and activities outside Greece and how many private workers have been unemployed or unpaid or changed their employment status? At the same time, rotating and false, even until first you unloaded the responsibility of capital controls, capital controls, to lenders as supposedly a way of responding to your famous hard negotiations. You have avoided the fact that your disastrous rhetoric of a bad banking system - your summer revolution - did not bring the utopia, a utopia that you only had ideologically. On the contrary, you have led to a blurred outflow of funds toward the outside or to the mattresses and hence to a collapse of the Greek banking system. The price of the shares in Eurobank, Alpha Bank and Piraeus yesterday was 0,014. That's enough, that's, the unemployment benefit to make you a big shareholder in a bank. This is popular capitalism. The Greek stock market was completely devalued. The market value of the Greek banks from EUR 29 billion in June 2013 fully collapsed to EUR 3.9 billion at the beginning of November 2015. Today, as we move towards the completion of capitalisation, its value is estimated at around EUR 1 billion. At the moment, the capitalisation of the Athens Stock Exchange is not even 20% of GDP and is constantly falling after your old age. May I remind you of the European average? It's 75% of GDP. We are literally talking about a 'vatterlo'. This is the only term that describes the situation of our banking system today. If you had shown the elementary responsibility, if you had passed the recapitalisation law on time, if you had predicted that there are the 10 billion euros still expected in the CFSF and if you had completed the assessment faster, you would have allowed banks to approach investors from another position and on other terms. Instead, the Recapitalisation Act was passed only three weeks ago, i.e. 15 days after the expiry of the deadline, with many ambiguities and problems faced with the multi-project that was only passed last Thursday 19 November. In this context, even what has been gathered these days, it is a success. Moreover, we had an unprecedented fall in the trade balance. In a total of nineteen Member States Greece recorded the second worst position in reducing exports and the largest drop in imports in the seven months of January - July. July - August 1 billion euros of shipping exchange went missing, which means a reduction of 12% over last year. Are you really going to make it clear how much the consultants you used in the negotiation are going to cost us? The legislative content of Article 5 provided for the direct award of a project with fixed-term contracts of up to three months to distinguished financial, legal or economic experts in order to support the negotiation of the Greek Government. Apart from the opaqueness of the matter, where the advisers - friends of Ministers - presented themselves as impatiently paid experts, the report from the General Accounting Office of the State does not accurately estimate the amount of the expenditure which might be incurred for the payment of their remuneration. The expenditure will be assessed by decision of the Minister of Finance. That's how it was planned. I imagine you've come to an end. Can you tell us about the level of their remuneration? And if not, when will you end up in order to inform the Greek people how much it cost? Another legislative act concerns the proper functioning of school units and the provision of expenditure of EUR 35 million for this purpose. Expenditure on public investment budgets amounting to EUR 72 million is also foreseen for the payment of substitutes and payrolls for teachers, as well as special teachers and assistants. Do you characterize these as an ‘unpredictable need’? Is school cleaning houses unforeseen needs, the safe transportation of students and the recruitment of assistant teachers? I guess that's about an unforeseen government failure, unfortunately. And speaking of education, with Article 12 of this and more specifically with Article 6, the way in which the refugees are selected changed. While it was true that as a dean it could be elected as a teacher of the first grade PII of the national or foreign with Greek nationality and an excellent knowledge of the Greek language, with recognized authority and important administrative experience, the act of legislation that we dominate replaces this sentence with the phrase "As a dean, Professor A's degree is elected by the relevant institution". This, of course, has resulted in the abolition of the international process of showing interest in these positions. We are talking about genuine founding, the endlessness of provincialism, fearfulness, mediocracy and establishment through the protection of our own and the clone they create, the exorcism of excellence from its main location. So the Foundation Councils are now a past. It was a luxury. We were extended, then, by Sifakis, Bertsimas and by all other international prestige Greek academics, to help unhelpfully the titanic work of reforming higher education. You will allow me to present, in the minutes of the Greek Parliament, the letter of resignation of Mr. Gregory Sifakis, President of the Council of the University of Crete. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] More generally, of course, the "poulover" of the Diamantopoulou Law is rapidly being "reformed" within your well-known reform pattern, a law that was not only passed by an unprecedented majority in the 2009-2012 parliamentary term, but also emerged through broad and long-term consultation with all stakeholders. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, remember how you were conquering - other colleagues reminded you before - and rightly as Opposition governments at that time dared to bring legislative action. Mark Mazauer, a well-known historian in his inventive work 'The Dark continent' - and he does not refer to Africa, unfortunately, but to Europe - has shown that the increase in legislative acts, in the weak then medieval democracies in Europe, has fatally extended their spread to totalitarian regimes. Thus, legislative acts, even ratified by Parliament, no longer constitute an anti-democratic, anti-parliamentary, in essence, way of legislating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr Dannelly, from the river. Mr Maniotis has the floor for seven minutes from the Democratic Partnership.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u77	Mr. President, would you excuse me for a second? Will you allow me, Mr. Maniotis, to interrupt to speak for three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u78	Mr Maniatis, if you will allow the Minister to speak, to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u79	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u80	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u81	I said this in my speech, but I think I did not say it quite clearly about the Minutes, that this bill is legislative acts and other provisions. I'm making it clear for the Minutes. But let me say, if Mr Maniatis will allow me, for thirty seconds, because the matter of the university has been raised and the election of the refugees, and I have heard a lot about this, and it is not a way to go ahead for dialogue and national dialogue, look at having an honesty between us. Firstly, it had to be because there were rectangular elections, they had been postponed and they were cancelled, and I do not want it to be done again. But I'm not going to the formalist. On the substance of the matter, what was done with the councils was that they were blocking candidates and, unfortunately, for those who said you were democrats - they were not excluded by accidental variables, namely some. Those who, almost everyone who ruled out, were people who were against the law of Diamantopoulou, as I was. That's what happened. That's not a way of democracy. To make the national dialogue, to see how we want to get out of the budgets, but do not tell me that it is an anti-democratic coup what we are doing, namely that the reason for these councils was to exclude some candidates. And you ruled out candidates who had no reason to rule out, except they were against Diamantopoulou. That's the truth. So I also respect the debate and national debate on education, but also have a honesty between us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Maniotis, I'm sorry for the interruption, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I am amazed to hear that I have just heard Mr Tsakalotou's and Mr Tsakalotou's position. Minister, are you telling us that the administrative councils of the Greek universities, all these people who have been dominated abroad, but also within the country, had somehow consulted each other in order to combat these moral, undefiled, indecent human academics who were against the law Diamantopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u84	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u85	You want to tell us that there is a conspiracy of evils,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u86	What conspiracy? No conspiracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u87	...which did not follow academic criteria, but instead follow standard criteria, as you said, ideologically - to say them - and that's why they didn't?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u88	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u89	Are you an academic saying this about a number of dozens of great Greek researchers and academics who have committed themselves abroad, who have unselfishly come to offer in their homeland something that they have not had many Greek universities, that is, extroversion and the possibility of competition between researchers and academics being an academic qualification? I'm really sorry, I'm telling you, it's the greatest disappointment I've ever felt from you. I would very much appreciate the advisability through the act of legislating to cancel elections because the government does not like Diamantopoulou ideologically. I accept it. But, the excitement to fellow academics, who have no reason to be afflicted by you, that they have allegedly conspired against you, we do not tolerate it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u90	The word 'conspiracy', I did not say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u91	We can't stand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u92	It's your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u93	I would like to ask you to take it back, because you are abusing people who honor the name of Greece abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, if you were to ask me what I think is the worst thing that has happened in recent months in the country, I would say to you that it is an unbelievable, unbelievable, insubstantial misery, the Greek society and the political system - or at least a large part of the political system - to tolerate everything. We are fascinating the constant acceptance of things which we ourselves, as collective entities, as parties, or personalised - I speak for SYRIZA colleagues - I am sure we would not tolerate not only voting in favour of them, but even discussing them a few months earlier. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, a huge issue that has been raised - and that is, if you wish, my statement of agony - is that dreams, expectations, hopes, hopes of at least two generations of Greek citizens who thought that if the Left governs, then this Left will have the moral advantage, the aesthetic advantage, the ideological advantage, these dreams, unfortunately, I am sorry to say - it does not concern Members of Parliament, but it concerns government policy to a very large extent -, they are devastated, discredited and - if that is the greatest damage that a government and a political party can do in Greek society. And there's something else. The Greek people from the old parties, the traditional parties, believed that Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA are something fresh, something new, something that can really rectify the Greek society. It is this disappointment that Greek citizens now feel, and from the last, in their view, a refuge, it is a disastrous relationship that has been formed between the government majority and the Greek people. I think that the whole of the political forces of the country should now reverse this course, a course of isolation of Greek citizens, a lack of any hope of the new generation, especially at the level of the economy and society, that nothing can change in this place, because we are all constantly sinking. Minister, I also heard you, before, in your normal position with a superficial micromagnosis say that SYRIZA has changed Europe and that the IMF has congratulated Lima because with the capital controls, you have managed to overcome them in a much shorter time than some expected. Minister, would you say this yourself two years ago as a member of the opposition? Would you be proud to hear yourself say that you are so great, so great, and you change Europe, yourself?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u94	Why do you keep putting words in my mouth? I didn't say conspiracy, nor that I was great, nor that I was big! Speak in a better way. I won't accept that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u95	I mean, a government that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u96	No conspiracy I didn't even say I was great!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u97	That's exactly what you're doing. You said you changed Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u98	Please don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u99	You said you changed Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u100	You keep putting words in my mouth. All the time! Answer your arguments and not what suits you! That would be a good start.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u101	You said that the effects of the Capital Controls have reduced them much more than expected.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u102	Minister, please make corrections. Please do not write anything in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u103	These are your words, by word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u104	I didn't even say great conspiracy. You keep putting words in my mouth.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u105	I'm telling you this and I'm telling you why you're running this place. We have at least an obligation to tell you, and you have an obligation to listen to it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u106	Minister, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u107	We tell you this: Land in reality. You've done a huge damage to the place. You are obliged to rule, because that is the mandate given to you by the Greek people and you should rule. Only what you have to do at the same time is to build a Greece better than the one you have received. And you, unfortunately, are driving Greece from evil to worse. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I was going not to waste my time. I am only saying that, at first, we are voting against the bill and we will simply vote in favour of two or three provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Maniot. Mr Christos Stakouras, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u109	I would particularly like to thank Mr Manda for the concession. Ladies and gentlemen, in a draft law of 12 different laws, twelve acts of legislation, together with the debate on draft legislation in the form of urgency, the rule of the left-wing government. I will not invoke extracts from Mr Tsipras' timeless, sprinkling rhetoric, Mr Tsakalotou and other SYRIZA officials for this practice, extracts that prove totally pollen, despite the sprinkle with the well-known left gold powder. I will note, however, that our colleagues, radical left-wingers, prove to be uncompetitive and are long-standing in unreliability. This so-called 'romantic Left' unreliableness shows a surplus of political atrocities and a lack of principles, respect for the intelligence of others and a strategic plan for the country. I imagine that other friends of ours, who have been champions for decades in the sport, seeing a continuously collapsed by radical leftists one record after another in the mismatch of election speeches and post-election practices, rub their eyes out of surprise. The hope, of course, in this development is that even at a slow pace in consciousness more and more citizens are identified and evaluated as current and historical responsibilities. With regard to all of us, who are serving the political system of the country, I believe that we need to realise, even now, that the size of unreliability in the field of politics is the basic and direct cause of the depreciation of the political system, as well as of the generalised and dangerous salt that tends to dominate the country. Ladies and gentlemen, most of the draft law under discussion is covered by legislative acts, which have been decided by the government, bank holidays and capital restrictions, which exist up to now. It is quite clear, as it is reasonable to prove that the imposition of capital restrictions is solely due to the improper political choices made by the Government in the first half of 2015. In this semester the government relied on wrong, fundamental assumptions rejected by reality itself. He ignored the European negotiating rules, thereby considering - and this has been proved - incorrectly that as long as the time goes, the partners will retreat. He was led by silky rhetoric, dogmatism and ideologies. He kept talking through the media by cultivating an environment of creative ambiguity. He consumed significant negotiating chapters and time on procedural and material issues, focusing on communication rather than on substance. It moved to the logic of the deliberate political negotiation to avoid the truth of the numbers, which, over the months, became more and more grim. It has established an economic staff without consistency and a stable strategy, with frequent changes in the negotiating group at all levels. It proceeded with a ambiguous referendum, a choice that was wrong both as to the content and the timing of the referendum. The proof was that the result was not taken into consideration. The result of these acts and omissions by SYRIZA and ANEL in the first half of 2015 was and is huge for the economy and sore for society. The country signed a new third memorandum, which was not inevitable a few months ago and which is accompanied by much more and more painful budgetary measures than was foreseen at the beginning of the year, but even by those decided before the referendum. At the same time, the country has been in an internal payment position for months. The deposits of households and businesses have decreased considerably, while the legislative acts that we are currently adopting have been decided by the government on bank holidays and capital restrictions imposed. So today the public economy despite the new additional austerity measures has returned to the primary deficits. The real economy has collapsed. Business expectations have deteriorated rapidly. Consumer confidence has significantly declined. The government’s late payments to the private sector have returned to pre-2013 levels. The economy has returned from the third quarter of 2015 to the recession and the banks need a new recapitalisation, which is under way and we will certainly discuss it in the next few months. It costs the taxpayers additional costs, it dramatically shrinks the Greek private and public participation, it depreciates the previous capital increases, it eliminates the value of the financial stability fund portfolio and - in my opinion, particularly important - it amends the same approved restructuring plans of credit institutions as a result of their loss of serious assets, such as in the case of the National Bank the sale of the entire participation in Finansbank. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the Left Government, trapped in ideologies, myths, hallucinations and endogenous contradictions, without political planning and strategy, has led the Greek economy to downward spirals. This adverse development significantly contributed to the control measures on capital movements, for which the Government is solely responsible. These are measures that we are voting against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr Christos Stakoura from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, could I have the floor for thirty seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u112	You're welcome, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u113	Mr Stavura, I would like to make two comments on what you said. The first is, if you want to rethink how much you anticipated the recapitalisation will cost the Greek people. You said some very large numbers. I hope now that you're able to minimize these numbers. Secondly, since we had such a bad negotiating strategy, did we not know how to handle time, whether it is for us or against us, since we did not have the coordinating advantage you had, why did you not close the fifth evaluation? After we were going so well, the economy was going so well, we were a fight from there, why didn't you shut it down, and you didn't get money from August to January? Can you answer that? Why didn't you turn it off?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u114	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u115	But we don't have a dialogue. However, because it personally addressed you with the floor, you have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u116	Minister, first of all for Act 1, the recapitalisation of the banks, we have discussed this in detail recently. The only responsibility for the need for recapitalisation lies with the current government. Proof of this is even the report of the European Central Bank, which accompanies the publication of the bank's capital requirements data. All of this is due to the governance of these months.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u117	I did not ask that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u118	There are also recent reports from the European Commission. Secondly, you asked me about the recapitalisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u119	I didn't ask you about the number.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u120	Zero. Zero were the needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u121	You said we'd borrow twenty, thirty, forty. Every time there was a different figure, that we would charge forty billion people the country, fifty and seventy. The number was always different.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u122	I'm very careful about the estimates and if you look at the Minutes, you'll see a number I've said about the recapitalisation needs. Not even a number! But what I said - and I repeat today - is that a few months ago the needs for bank recapitalisation were zero. Zero! Your other question, now. The other question concerns why the negotiations were not closed. The negotiations were not closed because there was indeed a budgetary gap between our estimates and the partners' estimates, in order to achieve 3% of the primary surplus in 2015. There was a discrepancy of over EUR 2 billion - minus EUR 2 to EUR 2.5 billion - with projected rate of economic growth for 2015 that exceeded 2.5%. We did not close the agreement, and we did not have the time to close it as we did a year ago when we were asked for tough budgetary measures, austerity measures of EUR 1 billion, pension cuts that we never made, because we proved through the implementation of the budget and in the first few months of 1914 that our estimates were more rational than lenders. And we achieved both the objectives of '13 and the objectives of '14, until November '14 to be absolutely honest. You were saying that the negotiations would not be closed. And you said, 'We don't need the money, we want dignity'. We've seen the results. The results have come to the current legislative acts which we have just discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u123	Thank you. Mr Mandas, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u124	I will try to be shorter, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to address three issues. The first part relates to the process of ratifying the acts of legislation and, above all, to the first five, because at the end of the day I would like to make a separate reference to the legislative act concerning the universities of the country. So I will say two things about the recapitalisation that I consider to be important, and finally I will close up with this issue concerning universities. I do not think anyone is happy - to be absolutely clear - when he uses this way to legislate. And I think that starting from this, obviously, neither legislative acts nor urgent procedures are an option that can be long-term - to say so. However, we cannot forget and it is not rational to omit that the specific acts of legislation relating to capital controls were carried out under specific conditions, in which - in our view - it could not be done otherwise. Because what was forgotten or not said or silenced in this Chamber was that exactly the capital controls coincided with the holding of the referendum. You will remember very well, those who want to remember, that this was a key lever for the Greek people under a dilemma, which they put forward as a dilemma, supposedly, of the referendum and was not a dilemma of the referendum, namely the famous "euro or drachma". And you may remember very well how the famous European front, the 'yes' front, worked throughout this period. It is noteworthy how a people were faced with this afflicted and really pressured by this unprecedented situation, in which we actually entered these conditions. Because we really had to have capital controls, at the same time and at the same time historical period that some people from morning to night mocked that if SYRIZA came to power they would make their money out to ensure it, and when the outputs were really in figures and at a rate of such that the banking system was actually at stake. I don't think anyone could at that particular moment have had a choice beyond her. The Minister said very clearly that we have to a considerable extent reduced the impact of the capital controls. I think that this is recognised - and I say this again - by those in a rational way who respect this particular period and I think it will also be seen in economic history, if you like, for this period that we are talking about. The second point I wanted to make is the question of recapitalisation. I do not think anyone doubts that, in the face of the possibility that the recapitalisation will take more time and risk having a cut in deposits of more than EUR 100,000, but also with any consequences that might have had for the whole of the deposits, the recapitalisation should have gone ahead. This is deliberately omitted from the debate. Where the debate focuses on is that we sold out - it says - the shares and left the Greek banks behind. What's the reality? I'll try to document it. If we look at the evolution of the stock exchanges of the Greek banks that held the HFSF, they seem to have a downward trend from May and June 2014. And it is not right that what is repeated in this Chamber, that allegedly in December or early January 2015, the stock market value was close to 19 billion. On the contrary, since 2014, we have a gradual decline, in September 2014 at 16.5 billion, in December at 14.3 billion, in January at 10.9 billion, while in June, before the imposition of capital controls, their stock exchange value had reached about 6 billion. But what is not responding - and it is a big question - is what happened to the previous ones, about 25 billion of the previous recapitalisation of 2012-2013 was not collected or collected a very small part, close to 300 million, if I'm not mistaken. That was the second issue. The previous governments have shaped state property valuation conditions, with the acceptance of the loss of majority rights and the maintenance of management by 10% of shareholders and therefore the concession of the administration of banks to private individuals - this was an international paradox - and, of course, with the gift of warrants, that is, the issue of repo rights for a period of five years, until 2017, with the imposition in fact of the imposition on the FFS of not being able to allocate the shares to profitable prices, since this factor, this imposition, has removed from the FFS the possibility of making its shares available at the appropriate time and at the appropriate prices. Therefore, it is true that there is a low price in shares and that price formation during the book building process has shaped low prices, but at this moment there was an incentive to attract investors. And indeed, it came "fresh" money in our banks, with about five billion, that came from private investors. It is also important to note that the Cocos composition enables us, in a visible period of time, to regain as public and about 6 billion, which will enter the public for the recapitalisation of banks. Finally, in order to observe what I have said and to close, the act of legislation on higher education institutions symbolises in a way and an ideological conflict that exists, in terms of the future and the evolution of higher education. This does not in any way remove the possibility of dialogue. Because no one can claim that I will only have a dialogue if you have the same view of me. We have had and continue to have a radically different view of education in general, but also of higher education in particular. We were able to exclude candidates and limit them to what we call shortlist three and I do not think one can argue with serious arguments that this was right. I really say that you look very closely at who these candidates were, and if, in fact, as far as academic criteria are concerned, they were able to choose the colleagues for the possibility of taking up an administrative position in their universities, then come and talk about it. For there are, indeed, examples. I am not talking about 'target' and'scientific' exclusions. However, I am talking about exclusions which, on the basis of this narrow margin of the three shortlist, were made and happened to people who had the academic criteria, had an opposition which they had expressed in an academic manner, whether in a trade union or in any other way, to the law of Diamantopoulou. That's the process. This is a particular disagreement. This, of course, does not prevent - and alas if it prevents - any dialogue on the issues of education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u125	Thank you to SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative Christo Manda. Mr Dimitris Emmanoulidis has the floor for seven minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the lyric of my favourite poet Miltos Sachtouris comes to my mind to see the empty benches of the New Democracy: 'Others, this Hall has become this Halloween'. And now I come to the point. Because the criticality of the days we are living is marginal, we need to granulate the reality and show some self-evident truths that are unfortunately silenced. SYRIZA was denounced for a boulevard of authority. Things are very simple, very clear and once this truth must finally be brought to light. The New Democracy, in front of the deadlock of the fifth evaluation and with social and economic debris, saw that it could not continue. If SYRIZA wanted to act in the light of a political feasibility, what would it be more appropriate to leave the political system that was there to deliver, by taking the last measures of social demolition, even knowing that the next moment would be the moment when it would come to power as the ruler of the game and without challenging social weights, which underneath had no reason to accept, because it was a burden that others carried on and brought to the people's backs? What is more honorable than waiting for time - since there was no logic of the mature fruit, but the reality of the rotten fruit - and had all the comfort of managing political and social reality as he wanted? Instead, he has chosen the way of responsibility and at marginal times, aware of this difficulty in the project he has undertaken. And I come to some contradictory remarks that at one point are heard about the charming role of SYRIZA, the paralyzing speech of SYRIZA towards society. Things are again very clear in their reading and interpretation. We therefore have the decision on the referendum. This decision is taken under the state of capital control, through an unprecedented social reality - when by crushing all of us we saw old people costing ATMs - and knowing that the economy was strangled at that time in the field of entrepreneurship and in the field of everyday family life. So in this social and economic reality, the people are stubborn in a system that fell on it with all its powers, saying 'no'. And then the elections come. And they say that SYRIZA is doing a resilience and a change of course of an eighty-degree eighty-degree. The people are again stubbornly supporting this assumption by SYRIZA. Is the people so naive that in two intersectional opposite positions they support a political convict? That's the question. The answer lies if one wants to deal with reality with boldness and courage. The people, having accumulated experience of years, and experiential years and history, are now convinced that all this adventure that SYRIZA wanted to have is an essential conversation with history, with the country, with the people. We are now coming to the results of the capital control. In fact, there has been a painful moment for the economy, a more painful moment for society. However, in an unprecedented condolence of society on the one hand, with an unprecedented maturity, and on the other hand, a hearing of politicians from the economic staff and, by extension, from the entire political system of SYRIZA, we had the least suffering from this adventure and are now at the point where the place begins to see a clear. This clearing has specific stations. On the one hand it is the recapitalisation, on the other hand it is the Junker package, and in the depth of time, which is not long, it is the negotiation that will ultimately cut off the burden of this debt and make economic reality the real battles for SYRIZA and society dimensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr. Dimitris Emmanoulidis from SYRIZA. I assume that the last speaker, before entering the rapporteurs' seconds, is Mr Ioannis Aivatidis from the People's Association - Golden Dawn. You have the floor for seven minutes, Mr Aivatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. The abuse in legislative acts does not betray political clarity. On the contrary, I believe that the legislative, parliamentary work is being circumvented. In any case, they are entirely consistent with the saying of the former Vice-President of Parliament, Alexis Metropoulou, who spoke of 'ermaphrodite honesty'. So this unprecedented attitude is still going on today. Minister, you may be kind to me personally, but your policy is detestable. You have an economic guru behaviour, but I believe that you are a persuasive instrument of the resentment of the so-called 'positions'. You think abundant drinking will go through all these measures. But I tell you and remember, the political price will be very great. But that is not something that is of interest to the Golden Dawn. Golden Dawn cares about the price of the nation. Your policy is ethno-corruption. As far as the individual articles are concerned, I will make a very small reference. For bank holidays and the restrictions on capital movements, you were fully in line with the demands of international loan sharks. I would like a concrete answer to a very simple question: When will these measures be lifted? The market, Minister, has suffered irresponsible damage. With regard to Article 8, where you refer to the sudden humanitarian crisis and you are trying to justify this act of legislation, I have to tell you that immigration did not appear suddenly. The Golden Dawn has long warned. In any case, then, we will be voting against these articles. I now come to two issues of topical and urgent importance. The first issue concerns the explosion that took place at 3.35 p.m. today at the BSE offices. There was a warning call, which means the perpetrators of course didn't want any victims. But there's a message. Who is the addressee of this message? Who's the bell ringing for, Minister? Please ask yourself, 'cause it's interesting. The second and very important issue is this: Today the Turkish armed forces destroyed a Russian aircraft Sukhoi SU -24. This act is an act condemnable. I must remind you that, as the Turks have said, there has been some breach of Turkey's airspace. Greek Air Force faces this phenomenon every day, but it did not break down any of the aircraft of Turkish Air Force. I would like to express on behalf of the Golden Dawn our deep grief for the loss of pilots, as well as for the loss of the innocent souls of flight from Egypt to St Petersburg. Indeed, it is true that the Russian nation pays a blood tax to rid mankind of this Islamic organization that looks like a modern Frankenstein. It's known how it started and evolved. I saw the pictures of the dead Russian pilot as they were released. I have to say to you, Minister - I am a coroner, I have served in the Ministry of Justice for sixteen years - that the pilot has had multiple wounds after death, which means that the perpetrators, who seem to be Turkish rebels financed by Turkey, have emptied all their wrath. Besides, his body was bent too. They removed the cross he had on him. As you can see, for the Greek but also for the Russian nation the cross is a great thing. Turkey with these lions predicts that it will have the fate of the Ottoman fleet in the battle of Navy in 1827 and will be crushed. We, as Greece, must formally condemn these acts. In any case, we need to know that the homonymous, Orthodox nation of Russia was historically next to us and will remain. I would remind you that the Golden Dawn insists on a geopolitical shift towards Russia, while Turkey appeals to NATO to support it, because it knows that it will have a very heavy price in this disgraceful act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis. I wanted to ask the SYRIZA rapporteur if he would like to give a second answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u130	Just for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u131	I'll give you three minutes. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u132	I would like to address you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u133	Aren't you going to get up? You don't respect the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u134	If that's what I'm doing, I don't know. Do I, Mr President, have to stand up?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u135	That's the usual way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u136	If he's used to it, yes, I'm sorry. Mr Minister, I should like to address you by saying the following and to close a little differently. I think too many things have been said. I have nothing to add for the bill. At some point a few days ago during a committee I heard an old parliamentarian with a lot of detail, he would say, an honour to say that during many years of his parliamentary activity he might have been over twenty, he saw too many things. The first thing I thought of was how he didn't get tired all these years. The second thing that came to my mind was that sometimes, you know, parliamentarianism feeds me to say civilian staff in the form of those wild beasts that we rear and when we defil them in their real nature, they cannot grab a cockroach. These are issues which we need to see and which have a crucial imprint in reality, on what we are living here in Parliament today. We hear things and miracles, we hear politicians who have served the place for too many years, not to apologize to the world, to do what they have done, to forget very easily. I have heard and found today that it is a very important thing to lose power from your hands when you have it years in your hands and to tell you by a new Member, who under no circumstances would want to live that duration of parliamentaryism on his side. They are things that we have to deal with at some point, of course they are irrelevant to the bill we are discussing today, but they are things that we need to deal with seriously now in our Parliament, if we want to upgrade it and if we want to produce a political staff that, on its part, will produce work for his place or on the other hand, they will take the opportunity of producing bad work for his place. That's what I have to say. I have no more to say, and I think we have a very long way to go. I have not heard any of the Opposition want to have a real national dialogue. I have not heard anyone want to join in a national dialogue today, but no rapporteur has heard me say a great 'no' in this national dialogue in whatever form. And I think that everyone, at least those who mentioned it, was deeply convinced that this dialogue would take place in the absence of the Prime Minister. This dialogue will take place with the Prime Minister of the country, but I am deeply disappointed and I believe that they will not really come to this national dialogue. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrios Vettas, SYRIZA rapporteur. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Asmakopoulou, now has the floor. How much time do you want, Mrs. Asmakopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u138	As far as I'm concerned, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u139	They account for seven and a half minutes. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr President. I'm a little confused, because this is where the rapporteur is asking for a dialogue. Is this an open and honest discussion, Minister? Because in the open and sincere debate today, according to what you have said, it is to fight. So, if you're calling us to fight, here we are, but anyway. Of course I do, Minister. I immediately start this debate on the tragic issue of bank closure with something positive, and that is that in the Minister's speech, not to exaggerate, it seemed to me that you finally admitted that you closed the banks. At least you did not argue that you did not close the banks, and that is, of course, very good, Mr Minister, because before I showed my prototype and my report the signatures that exist in the legislative acts which, of course, are also the signature 'Eklidis Tsakalotos', at least that shows one serious thing. To finish this conversation about whether you closed or didn't close the banks. Now, you also made a kind of self-criticism and I choose the phrase you used in the context of this self-criticism. "It was not pleasant," you said, "that the banks closed down and entered the capital control". Wasn't it pleasant, Minister? Really? The shock that people have been through doesn't touch you? The fact that older people were in line, the concern about life's labor, what business went through, what people went through the private sector, what people lost their jobs, didn't touch you at all? 'It was not pleasant'. In fact, it wasn't pleasant. Now it's a pleasure, isn't it? Why, if you'll excuse me, I asked you the first time: Are they going? I didn't hear anything about leaving the Capital Controls. Are they going away? When are they leaving? You talked to us later about limiting the negative effects. You see, I'm fair. Of course, a job has been done to limit the negative effects. I beg your pardon if I consider it self-evident that this should be done. You got it. And I think that someone in there also made a good comment on Mr Stournara - if I listened well - why you referred to the Bank of Greece. So this job has been done, and you are telling us - and I am still telling you - that I am not falsifying any of your statements - that to improve the consequences they have told you 'bravo' from Peru? Bravo! You know, in Peru by the way - I say - the average wage is under 200 euros. So that's where the argument you used that someone made EUR 1.680 from the bank comfortably...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u141	The IMF told us it was just the meeting in Peru.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u142	Okay, but he was in Peru. Good, so when you're in a country where the average salary is 200 euros, it can be that when you tell them that 1,680 euros are taken in a month, it looks amazing to them. I don't know, I say. 'Bravo', then! Do you want us to call you good? So, you ruined the economy, you shut down the banks, and because you're fighting - and you're doing well - so that the bad consequences of this go away, we have to tell you good? How can I not stay out loud, Minister? How can I not stay out loud? You'll allow me, but the only achievement I see you've achieved in this speech is to leave me speechless, because I honestly myself very rarely speak voice, as you know, from my presence in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u143	A voice? You're fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u144	Bowling for the damage! Well, I don't expect to hear and apologise to the world the banks have closed down. Alas! Stay away from you! Minister, you have spoken of your account. So you started your speech in a more general context and beyond a bill that we are discussing today. So you told us that you have restored our prestige in Europe, that you are not provincial like us, and that you have raised the refugee on an international issue, that they are now talking at Eurogroup 30 minutes only about Greece - is it because you have agreed everything, you say 'yes', and it does not take much time to say 'yes' to everything? - and anyway, of course, you're defending solidarity. Another achievement: While we have returned to the recession, "hey, it will not be so much the recession! The recession will be less than expected." Is that good? And, of course, because I know we all want to leave to watch the game tonight, you did me one pass and thank you. You have asked or rather considered whether there is even one Member who considers that if Antonis Samaras were Prime Minister, he would have handled the refugee better. In English, Minister: 'Live in the flesh'. Here is a Member who believes that, yes, the refugee question had been handled better by the Samara government. And to go to another account, in a parallel universe, in which we unfortunately don't live, why did SYRIZA come out - if there was the Samara government, do you know where we'd be? We would have 2.9% growth, not recession and not less than the expected recession. The gradual decline in unemployment would continue. We'd have left the memorandum and gone to the credit line. Maybe we'd go out on the markets sooner. What do you think, Minister, of the 11 billion for a preventive support line? Wouldn't that be nice? Instead, what do we have? Third memorial! That is what we would not have had if the Antonis Samaras government had continued: we would not have a third memorandum, we would not have increased the debt even further. Unemployment would not increase, VAT would not have been increased, the tax on free trade and the 100% tax advance would not have been increased. What's coming for the farmers wouldn't come. What else can I say? A lot of them! So that would be if the government of Antonis Samaras existed, Minister. And I'm coming back to the bill. They would not have shut down the banks and we would have no capital control, and we would not have discussed whether it would have been possible to reduce the damage from the closure of the banks. We'd talk about other things. That is what I call a ‘letter’. That is what you are saying. I call it fairy tales, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mrs Asmakopoulou. The reason is the special speaker of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Ilias Panagiotaros.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. We have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur speak of 'national understanding', about'sympathy' for all Greeks. In order for there to be national consensus and consensus, the one who calls for it, the one who directions it - the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence - to set a good example. SYRIZA's rapporteur, the Greek people with the referendum showed a very great consensus. A 62% of the Greek people voted for what you brought to the referendum. And you took this compassion and the next morning of the referendum, you ragged it. You have done exactly the opposite. You have dissolved everything the Greeks believed that they can do against the international loan sharks, against the institutions, against the creditors, against all those who you, as opposition, but also according to what you said in the Prime Minister's first programming statements and who, after seven months of regression, did not understand exactly what you wanted to do and started doing exactly the opposite. You have brought the third memorandum, what you would vote against 'with an article and a law', as Prime Minister Tsipras said. So you did exactly the opposite. You've made the worst recapitalisation of banks any one of the three could've done. For the first time, what was left of the "Greek" banks was taken by foreigners against a lentil plate. The shares that the State had were now a card fighter. They didn't even do anything to wrap skewers! More accurately, it was the chalcolate wrapping a shuffle from the stock, as you became one with your predecessors. So you can't ask Greek citizens any sympathy. Because, apart from the economic issues, where you have been disproved by yourself, they are the national issues, for which we see retreat everywhere. Only today we had sixty-two violations of the national airspace by the Turks. And you muga, not a word. At the same time, we saw what happened between Turkey and Russia. You cannot ask for sympathy when you bring bills, where you give Greek citizenship to anyone who enters this country and do everything you can, so that they can come as many as possible and stay here. There can be no compassion when it comes to the refugee or illegal immigration issue - say it's what you want - you literally dissolved the local communities of all the islands, of Athens, of the border, of small villages and we don't know what else. You cannot speak of compassion when from your actions and actions, from the seven Paris jihadists, at least three passed by Greece. In fact, one of them came in, came out, came back and went out and said. As for the New Democracy, it is very ironic to condemn SYRIZA when she voted in the third memorandum, knowing the prerequisites, regardless of whether she is now voting for opposition. Also, to talk about reducing unemployment, when we know that unemployment was'slashed' by more than 25%. And we do not know whether, at the rate of 0.1% that you say you have reduced unemployment, you also take account of the hundreds of thousands who are now working an hour or a week, as opposed to a lentil, not even for a coffee. To go and ask what wages young people - those employed - are recruited in private enterprises to understand whether there has been a decline in unemployment, as you said or a growth. For the hundreds of thousands of padlocks until January 2015, for which you are keyly responsible, for the tens of thousands of businesses who left Greece and went to Bulgaria, Romania, have gone anywhere else, for the many big companies that went to tax havens, to Luxembourg by your friend Mr. Juncker, what do you have to say? Nothing at all! As for the fact that the banks have closed down, that would be one way or another. The fact that he "dried" in SYRIZA's hands says nothing. It proves how tragic they were, because they said there was never any chance that any bank would be closed down. Banks closed down and achieved something that has been in the change, what banks have been trying for many years now, plastic money, all dealings with cards. They did so within a very short period of time, blackmailing an entire people and even extorting those who have money, having them locked up in the banks, cannot make them. Who knows what new time holds us, because no one - but no one! - it has not guaranteed that there will be no "haircut" of deposits either from Europe or from Greece or anywhere else. It is a pity, because you are constantly mocking the Greek people and the situation shows that things will get much worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u147	Thank you Mr Panagiotaros, special speaker of the People's League - Golden Dawn. Mr Vardalis, a special speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to refer to the party's position on the amendments tabled, to which we did not have the opportunity to refer. Mr Minister, you are continuing a process of inadmissibility, at the last minute you are bringing amendments and we do not have time to study them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u149	We didn't bring them now!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u150	When did you bring them? Today, after the start of the sitting. That is what I mean by 'the last moment', I do not mean 'the last hour'. The first thing about the employees of the Ministry of Finance is that we are positive. There's a problem solved. But, Minister, there are other workers who have exactly the same problems and are not there, for example municipal officers. Why? With regard to the second amendment concerning the ratification of the agreement on the banking resolution mechanism, we are opposed. We're going to vote against it anyway. It is not the time to talk about this. We all know the role of banks in the capitalist production system, in this system that we live in, capitalist. It is necessary for them to have a banking union, their central body. However, this is all about safeguarding bank funds and also about funds in general. For the third amendment concerning workers in the regions, we will vote'residents'. We had also tabled a topical question, which was discussed. Our proposal is to keep their payroll from the state budget and not to pass on to the regions. I would like to mention two issues on legislative acts now. The first one is for the cleaners. We have said in the rapporteur's speech what the solution should be, in our view. Let me remind you that we have tabled a proposal for a law last April 2015, which was not accepted. It was government. We believe that the responsibility for the cleanliness of schools must remain at the Ministry of Education. I would remind you that since the start of the school year 2016-2017 this is changing, it goes to the municipalities. The needs of the municipalities for the cleaning of school units must be met by the existing staff and by contracts which will have to be converted into private law for an indefinite period from the municipalities concerned. Such an amendment must be brought forward, namely that cleaners should be made indefinitely, so that we do not have redundancies next year. We agree, of course, on the extension you are giving for the current school year. The second issue with regard to legislative acts is as follows: Mr Famellos wondered whether anyone could disagree with the issue, as is the case with the legislative act, about the transfer of pupils. Minister, how have you solved this problem with the act of legislation? By Articles 1 to 3 of the Act, you once again extended the contracts on the routes. Answer me, though: There is a final date on this, 29-2-2016. Then what happens? New extension again? This issue has been resolved by the previous ones. Extension to extension. Can the issue be resolved permanently and firmly? In our opinion, yes. Our proposal, which we have put forward many times in this Chamber, is that this problem must be solved free of charge by creating an exclusive public body. In any case, however, it is not acceptable - clearly what will be done - that the proposal of the Communist Party of Greece should take all the measures necessary to ensure that all pupils are transported, that students are given special student cards free of charge from all public transport. We say that because there are other restrictions. Beyond twenty kilometers, the student is not entitled to free transportation, because he has no student card. Finally, Minister, I would like to make a comment on your position. You referred to the two conflicting narratives. You accused in particular the PASOK and the New Democracy of not completing the fifth assessment, of being responsible. You said they had red lines that would become pink because they weren't meant to crash. So since you guys who crashed and brought this contract that you brought, those who didn't intend to clash would have brought worse. Upstairs, without wanting to paraphrase, that logic was that. You have even conflicted and changed a great deal and in all of this you have changed the situation in the European Union as a whole. Now, then, conflicts are beginning to develop, discussions are taking place and, in any case, changes are taking place, changes are taking place in Portugal, in Spain, even in a part of social democracy. Is the European Union finally changing? Minister, we're the last to say it doesn't change. The European Union is changing, but it is changing for the worst on behalf of the workers and the rest of the people. Such changes are taking place and such conflicts are now evolving in the European Union. These are conflicts between the bourgeois ranks of the countries of the European Union and these conflicts, of course, you are also involved because you are defending the interests of our country's bourgeoisie. But these conflicts have nothing to do with the interests of the people. Because, for example, while many things change in the European Union, anti-grassroots measures are taken in all countries, whether they have no debt or have no Memorandums. Why raise age limits as a condition for retirement? Why are pensions and wages reduced? Why is the price of the labour force falling in all European Union countries? Why are these changes at the expense of the people anyway? Mr Minister, I would say this: there are surely conflicts. The conflict, which is necessary, however, is first of all the conflict of working order with the interests of the monopolies, their political representatives and all those who defend the interests of the urban classes of the countries of the European Union. The alliance of the populace, the work, the farmers, the self-employed professionals against the interests of the monopolies is essential. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. Vardalis. The last speaker is Mr Jason Fotillas, a special speaker from Potami. You have the same time. I hope you don't exhaust him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened carefully to the Minister, as I have heard the speaker of ANELs telling us about the responsibilities of the previous governments with regard to increasing red loans by tens of billions, 78 in fact. I agree that they have their own responsibilities. But do you, Minister, have nothing to say about your own responsibilities? I also did not hear you say anything, Minister, about the request you made to international funds, yes, hedge funds, what you complained about as vultures and predators of Greek citizens, to literally buy red loans from citizens and businesses for a piece of bread. We insist that the specific MAGPs, which the Greek Parliament is called upon to ratify, are the proof of amateurism and of the other supposedly negotiation of your Government. That is why we cannot support it, not only because you are bringing into legislative acts the legislation that you could bring it under normal procedure, but we cannot agree on the substance of it as well. We are unable to support the continuation of the bank closure and the freezing of capital movements, i.e. Articles 1, 2, 3 and 4. We cannot consent to the legalisation of shadow advisers and companies. No more secret counsellors, Minister. We are therefore voting against Article 5. We cannot allow the direct assignment of refugees and immigrants to continue. As I said in my prototype, the first quarter is an emergency, but when it takes place for seven to eight months at a time, the need becomes regular. It was evident that the refugee current would be intensified. You could have handled it differently. With another three-month extension, what do you gain? In the fourth month they will no longer need floating means, and if necessary, will you bring in a legislative act again? Why did you not provide for extending the time limit for the conclusion of lease contracts, chartering of waterways and announcing these financial elements to the National Representation so that it can be checked whether there is proper financial management and no overpricing? Likewise, for Article 9, which came out two days before the election and relates to the retroactive effect of fixed-term private-law contracts. Likewise for Article 10. All of this could be settled without the use of legislative acts, because it concerns permanent operational needs of the LAGs, schools, and not exceptional. You knew it a long time ago. You should know. Likewise, for Article 11, which is the sixth extension in order of this matter. Of course, I have analysed in detail in my prototype our strong opposition to Article 12 and, in particular, paragraph 6, which is changing the manner in which the dean is chosen and you must insist, Minister. We believe that this is all backwards for education. You want small and fearful, introverted Greek universities, separated from international developments, locked in their crab. Of course not! The only provisions we will support are those relating to the disasters in Evros and the appointment of the A/HSH to the position of the President of the Military Committee of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. As far as the amendments are concerned, listen - listen! Late amendments to urgent legislative drafts for the ratification of twelve legislative acts. Well, that's too much. He doesn't want a god or a devil! I have heard the Minister celebrate the reduced impact of capital control on our economy and the fact that growth will not be in -4 but in -1. I'm really wondering. Do you play with the nerves and endurances of the Greek people? Are you pretending to be ignoring the real results of capital controls across the entire spectrum of the Greek economy? Do you ignore the increase in unemployment, the closure of businesses, the suffocating liquidity issues faced by the market? Is it a success for you that imports into the country in July have dropped 32%? Is it a success that in all nineteen Member States, Greece records the second largest decline in exports and the largest drop in imports from January to July? Are you proud that for the fourth consecutive month is it felt that the downturn in the container handling activity in the port of Piraeus is evident? Are you celebrating that the two-month period of July-August lost 1 billion of shipping exchange and reduced the Greek register, which the stock exchange value of Greek banks from 29 billion in June 2013 has collapsed to 3.9 billion in November 2015? Are you proud that in the first quarter of 2015 the Greek banks announced EUR 74.5 billion of non-performing loans and now it is estimated at EUR 107 billion? These are your achievements and you are proud that the recession will not be 2.5%, but 16%. Congratulations! Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that our country is under constant pressure. Events in Paris, as well as today's crash of the plane from Turkish Air Force, are increasing the problems in our neighborhood. And we have the worst possible government at the wheel of the country, a government that systematically says 'yes' to everything and let it denounce the opposition. A government that signs with the international factor a memorandum of decades and exchanges its short-lived stay in power with the future of our children, a government that wants to cut off our universities from international developments. The accident is that you raised public opinion with conspiracy scenarios that this crisis was created by a foreign decision-maker to grab our assets. Now, you yourself are in the unpleasant position to spontaneously take over the position of negative protagonists in an absurd practice of permanent concessions. The difference is that we are no longer talking about scenarios, but about reality. And the concession isn't made by some mystery and unknown gentlemen in black suit and white collar. You are the same ones who hand over an entire country to foreign hands, you who were anxious to take the authority to save us from the traitors. Hypocrites! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u154	Very soon, Minister, for a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u155	I just wanted to say my Greeks aren't as bad as I thought. First of all, I know what the word speech means. I did not notice to Mrs Asmakopoulou any speech, which she was barely aware of. She supported her party's position. Secondly, I know what populism means.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u156	You know it firsthand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u157	Of course, I know firsthand. And I know that the parties that use populism like Potami say 'do as we say not as we do.' Such populism, such a distortion! Third, I know what celebration means. Where did you see the celebration? I said it twice - three times - and I speak to you and Mrs Asmakoulou - that it was not a pleasant situation and she was misunderstood and said 'thank you that it is not serious'. It was obvious what I meant, that we were trying to reduce the impact. No one's celebrated. And it's too big a populism for a party like the Potami to use words like celebrating. Fortunately, when I came here I had this feeling - because I always have a sense of fair play - that the New Democracy would not be ready to face me, because it had its own problems, but I see that the Potami, until the New Democracy finds a new Chief, is ready to support them and have the interests of the great classes and the ruling order in your hands with great security. That's what I have to say about the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u158	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u160	Yes, Mr. Carras, give me a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u162	What's that supposed to mean? I didn't say anything personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u163	No personal references. He made a political comment. Mr Carras has the floor, the last speaker before we proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President, for the absence of our special speaker. As a conclusion to today's debate, our side now concludes, Mr President. The responsibilities of the two major parties are opposed in the Chamber and do not improve and contribute nothing to escape the tunnel in which we are located. I have heard the SYRIZA side and the New Democracy side. I note a string of responsibilities, which leads me to think that each side is trying to cut off its own responsibilities. I am very concerned about the fact that I have heard words about consensus, that all sides are seeking consensus, but under the contents of these conflicts there can be no consensus, because the gap is growing. We therefore conclude, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that what is now being done is not enough. That's not good enough. That's not good enough. We are sinking into the recession, the recession is continuing and the issue is not resolved. We have discussed the question of banks today. Nothing's come up. We're trying to legitimize past situations. For the recapitalisation, which has taken place in great discussions, it has been shown that share prices, stock exchange values, disposal prices, which means that banks can actually only be recapitalised, can only be accounted for. In conclusion, I would like to point out the following. I heard Mr. Chakaloto. It remains my view that the transnational agreement could not come in the form of an amendment. The House will finally judge whether or not it votes. As far as Amendment No 57 is concerned, which last came after my speech, I must say this, that it is important to maintain the current situation, that the officials of the regions remain in the state budget, in order to ensure that they can be paid. We do not know the resources of the regions, we do not know what is happening. We shall then be voting on it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Carras. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is closed at the outset, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: a) of 28 June 2015 Act of Law of the Ministry of Finance of the Ministry of Finance of the Ministry of Finance of: a) of 28 June 2015 Act of Law of the Short Termination (A'66), (c) of 14 July 2015 Act of Legislation of the Legislation of the Legislation Act of 28 June 2015, (b) of 28 June 2015 "Amendment of the First Act of 28 June 2015" (Amendment of the Act of 28 June 2015, as amended by the Act of Law of 20 June 2015, (Amendment of 22 July 2015) and applicable, with regard to the extension of the Act of 14 July 2015, regulation of transactions in the course of which restrictive measures have been imposed (A'65), as amended by the Act of Accession of 28 June 2015, with effect of 28 July 2015, amending the Act of Accession of 20 July 2015, and of 18 July 2015 (Amendential amendments of 18 July 2015) of the Act of Accession of 18 July 2015, with effect of 18 July 2015.), the European Commission, the European Central Bank (ECB) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).) (A '90), (f) of 17 August 2015 Act of Legislative Content "Urgent Arrangements for the Rehabilitation of Loss of Extreme Creams in the Regional Unit of Evros" (A'97), (g) of 19 August 2015 Act of Legislative Content "Additional provision to n. 2292/1995 “Organisation and functioning of the Ministry of National Defence, Administration and Control of the Armed Forces and other Provisions” (A'100), (h) of 22 August 2015 Act of Legislative Content “Urgent arrangements for the smooth functioning of the Local Government Organisations” (A' 102), (j) of 10 September 2015 Act of Legislative Area “Enforcement of the School Year 2015-2016 and the orderly functioning of the School Units” (A' 108) and (k) of 25 September 2015. 4111/2013’ (A' 119) and (l) of 7-10-2015 Act of Legislative Content "Consolidation of Emergency Issues of the Ministries of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economy, Development and Tourism, Internal and Administrative Reconstruction, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks and Education, Research and Religious Affairs" (A' 127) and other provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, before you proceed to the vote, I would like to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u167	Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u168	Is it right - not under the Rules of Procedure - while the Minister was here all day, to leave at the moment? There is no government representative. Is this respect for Parliament and Members of Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u169	I guess he hasn't left because he's got his papers here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u170	We are voting and Minister does not exist. It outweighs the office you have here in the President to make the remarks, regardless of whether he is a member of the Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u171	You're right, Mr. Pappa. He's coming. He was out for a while. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u172	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u173	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u174	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u175	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u176	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u177	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u178	Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Modification: (a) of 28 June 2015 Act of Legislative Area of Short-Term Banking (A'65), (b) of 30 June 2015 Act of Legislative Content ‘Amendment of Article 28 of the Act of Legislative Area of Legislation’ (A'66), (c) of 14 July 2015 of the Act of Legislative Area ‘Completion of the Legislative Area of Legislative Area of 28 June 2015 ‘Amendation of the Legislation of the Legislative Area of Legislation of the Legislative Area of Legislation’ (A'66), (c) of 14 July 2015 concerning the extension of the Legislative Area of Legislative Area of Legislative Area of Legislative Area of 28 June 2015, (A' 66) and applicable, as regards the extension of the duration of the Act of the Act of 28 June 2015 Act of Accession and the Settlement of 18 July 2015, Restrictation and Settlement of 18 July 2015, Revision of 18 July 2015, Revisions, Revisions, Revisions, Revisionst.), the European Commission, the European Central Bank (ECB) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).) (A '90), (f) of 17 August 2015 Act of Legislative Content "Urgent Arrangements for the Rehabilitation of Loss of Extreme Creams in the Regional Unit of Evros" (A'97), (g) of 19 August 2015 Act of Legislative Content "Additional provision to n. 2292/1995 "Organisation and functioning of the Ministry of National Defence, Administration and Control of the Armed Forces and Other Provisions" (A'100), (h) of 22 August 2015 "Urgent arrangements for the smooth functioning of the Local Government Organisations" (A' 102), (j) of 10 September 2015 ‘Additional provisions for the uninterrupted start-up of the school year 2015-2016 and for the orderly functioning of school units’ (A' 108) and (k) of 25 September 2015 Act of Legislative Area ‘Enforcement of the school year 2015’, (A'10') and (k) of 25 September 2015, (Act of Legislation of the Governing Council of the Governing Council of the European Union of Economic Areas of Economic and Social Development (Agreement of the Republic of Cyprus) and of the European Union (Agreements No. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u179	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u180	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u181	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u182	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u183	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u184	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u185	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u186	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u187	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u188	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u189	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u190	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u191	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u192	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u193	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u194	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u195	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u196	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u197	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u198	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u199	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u200	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u201	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u202	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u203	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u204	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u205	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u206	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u207	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u208	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u209	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u210	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u211	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u212	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u213	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u214	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u215	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u216	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u217	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u218	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u220	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u222	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u223	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u224	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u225	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u226	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u227	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u228	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u230	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u231	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u232	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u233	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u234	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u235	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u236	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u237	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u238	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u239	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u240	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u241	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u242	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u243	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u244	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u245	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u247	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u248	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u249	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 55 and a special number 17 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u250	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u251	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u252	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u254	The amendment, under a general number 55 and a special 17, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 56 and a special 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u255	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u256	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u257	So the amendment under number 56 and a special 18 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 57 and a special 19 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u258	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u259	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u260	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u261	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u262	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u263	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u264	So the amendment under a general number 57 and a special 19 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u265	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u266	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u267	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u268	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u269	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u270	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u271	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft Law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Modification: (a) of 28 June 2015 Act of Legislative Area of Short-Term Banking (A'65), (b) of 30 June 2015 Act of Legislative Content ‘Amendment of Article 28 of the Act of Legislative Area of Legislation’ (A'66), (c) of 14 July 2015 of the Act of Legislative Area ‘Completion of the Legislative Area of Legislative Area of 28 June 2015 ‘Amendation of the Legislation of the Legislative Area of Legislation of the Legislative Area of Legislation’ (A'66), (c) of 14 July 2015 concerning the extension of the Legislative Area of Legislative Area of Legislative Area of Legislative Area of 28 June 2015, (A' 66) and applicable, as regards the extension of the duration of the Act of the Act of 28 June 2015 Act of Accession and the Settlement of 18 July 2015, Restrictation and Settlement of 18 July 2015, Revision of 18 July 2015, Revisions, Revisions, Revisions, Revisionst.), the European Commission, the European Central Bank (ECB) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).) (A '90), (f) of 17 August 2015 Act of Legislative Content "Urgent Arrangements for the Rehabilitation of Loss of Extreme Creams in the Regional Unit of Evros" (A'97), (g) of 19 August 2015 Act of Legislative Content "Additional provision to n. 2292/1995 "Organisation and functioning of the Ministry of National Defence, Administration and Control of the Armed Forces and Other Provisions" (A'100), (h) of 22 August 2015 "Urgent arrangements for the smooth functioning of the Local Government Organisations" (A' 102), (j) of 10 September 2015 ‘Additional provisions for the uninterrupted start-up of the school year 2015-2016 and for the orderly functioning of school units’ (A' 108) and (k) of 25 September 2015 Act of Legislative Area ‘Enterprises for the start of the school year 2015-2016 and for the proper functioning of school units’ (A'108') and (k) of 25 September 2015 Act of Legislation of the Governing Council for Economic Affairs and Development (A') on Other Provisions of Economic Development (Act No. 1211') and Reinforcement of the Education and Development of the Education Act of the ‘Act for Economic Development’ (Act No. Do you accept here that we shall vote on the bill as well as on the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u272	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u273	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u274	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u275	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u276	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u277	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u278	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u279	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘Modification: a) of 28 June 2015 Act of Legislative Area ‘Long Term Banking’ (A' 66), (c) of 14 July 2015 of a Legislative Area Act ‘Completion of the Legislative Content of 28 June 2015’ (A' 66), (c) of 14 July 2015 of a Legislative Area Act ‘Supplementation of the Legislative Area Act of 28 June 2015’, (b) of a short-term banking holiday’ (A'65), as amended by the Act of Law of 30 June 2015 (A'66), and in force, with regard to the extension of the duration of the Legislative Area of Banking Act, Arrangements on Transactions in the course of the Act of 28 June 2015, the suspension of enforcement, guarantee and extension of the anti-fraud Act, and the amendment of the Arrangements of 18 July 2015 (D.), the European Commission, the European Central Bank (ECB) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF).) (A '90), (f) of 17 August 2015 Act of Legislative Content "Urgent Arrangements for the Rehabilitation of Loss of Extreme Creams in the Regional Unit of Evros" (A'97), (g) of 19 August 2015 Act of Legislative Content "Additional provision to n. 2292/1995 "Organisation and functioning of the Ministry of National Defence, Administration and Control of the Armed Forces and Other Provisions" (A'100), (h) of 22 August 2015 "Urgent arrangements for the smooth functioning of the Local Government Organisations" (A' 102), (j) of 10 September 2015 "Act of Legislative Content of a large number of migrants" (A' 101), (i) of 26 August 2015, (i) of an Act of Legislative Area "Urgent Arrangements for the smooth functioning of the Local Government Organisations" (A'102), (j) of 10 September 2015 Act of Legislative Content "Environmental arrangements for the uninterrupted start of the school year 2015-2016 and the orderly functioning of the School Units" (A'10') and (k) of 25 September 2015 Act of Intellectual Reinforcement and Reinforcement of Others of Education (Actority's) (Activilities and Reconstruction') (Agregregregregregregregionalty) (Activ.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u280	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u281	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-24-S1-commons.u282	With the consent of the House at 22.45 minutes the sitting on Thursday, November 26, 2015, at 9.30, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny, is closed.
