ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 13-11-2015, the minutes of the CCM were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau of the CCM's minutes of Friday, 13 November 2015, with regard to the discussion and vote on the draft law: "State the amendment of Doha to the Kyoto Protocol to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change ratified by n. 3017/2002 (A'117)’]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question under number 105-10-11-2015 of the First Cycle of the MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the support and use of the National Centre for Quality Control, Classification and Standardisation of cotton in the Cardiff Prefecture, will not be discussed by the Minister and deleted. The second, under number 113/10-11-2015, timely question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Maximos Charakopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the pensions of the OGA, will also not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister and deleted. At this point, New Democracy MP Maximos Charakopoulos, who is present at the Chamber of Parliament, has asked for the floor. You have the floor, Mr. Harakopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. This is the second time when the head of the Ministry of Labour does not come to answer a timely question I tabled. I have to redeem it. I would like to believe, on the third time, that the leadership of the Ministry of Labour will be bound to come and give an answer. I understand that the leadership of the Ministry of Labour and the members of the government who previously promised a third pension, the restoration of pensions, which they considered to be excessive in 5% of the supplementary pensions provided for by the e-mail Hardouvel, are in difficulty to come to Parliament. They cannot, however, despise parliamentary control. Parliament's procedures cannot be balanced, as I see it to be done by a law in which twelve acts of legislation come into force. Since I was Minister, Mr President, I will tell you that I was always present at the time of parliamentary scrutiny. In fact, if you look at the Minutes, you see that I once came to the government headquarters to answer and was not the honourable Member underneath. He had forgotten to let me know that he had a coma and was absent. I would therefore ask you to make recommendations to the head of the Ministry of Labour, in order to be more consistent with their required presence in parliamentary control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Harakopoulos, I will agree with you. I think that this phenomenon, not to mention the ministers or the Deputy Ministers in order to respond to the Members, must be done in extremely rare cases. In any case, I will also pass on to the President and the Government the request - which is my own position - that the absences of the ministers be kept to a minimum, if possible. The third will be discussed with number 108-10-11-2015 top-level question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the need for improvement projects in the port infrastructure of the country. Mr Theodoros Dritsas will reply to the timely question by Mr. Theodoros. Your Honor, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, according to a report from the Masters' Union and a study by the Port Workshop of the National Technical University, out of ninety-four port projects, 97% has insufficient reception equipment, 92% has problematic ramps, 86% faces wave problems, 75% is unsuitable for cruise ships, 70% has unexistent land facilities, 50% has deep-sea problems. Also, there are problems of a safe approach to 44%, problems with reefs at 26%, incomplete mapping at 25%, problems of entering the port at 22%. Most ports are constructed at the wrong point, as weather conditions and local morphology of the region concerned have been ignored. Is the Minister asking? Is there any plans to improve port infrastructure? Will the Greek masters be consulted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Kouzeli. The Minister for Maritime Affairs, Mr. Theodores Dritsas, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kuzey, you're a captain, aren't you? So you know the issues. The report by the National Technical University of Athens, updated every year or every two years, as well as the report by the Pan-Hellenic Union of Masters of the Commercial Navy of all order - which is extremely useful, because it is simple and indicative of some specific interventions that need to be made in different ports - is a good basis for organising the reform of the port system, improving it and developing it. The evidence you have presented, of course, so that we do not have a picture that Greece does not have ports and that everything is in a poor state, indeed there are serious problems, but when one says that there are insufficient equipment at 97%, the lack of equipment has a dimension from 1 to 10. It can be 3, it can be 4, as well as the various other elements. Therefore, these studies do provide a good basis. That is what we agree on. The bad news is that there is not really a single port policy plan in our country, nor does the Ministry of Shipping have that responsibility, to set up and study and much more to fund a comprehensive plan, a combination, because every port is not alone. It has to be linked to the others and a hierarchy has to be made, so you are right to say that some ports have also been made at the wrong point. Why did they happen at the wrong point? Because they were not combined with real needs or with the best and best studies of weather conditions or other marine flows or anything else. However, I would like to say - and in my dentext I will tell you what the Ministry is doing and what it plans to do - that, unfortunately, this report by the captains - is very useful and very important - or that of the Polytechnics, it cannot be taken by a body as a whole and put forward a five-year programme. It will either do so every port fund that has to make a technical note or will do so by the region, or they will do so, then I will tell you that, unfortunately, port projects are not eligible for the NSRF programmes in recent years - either the Public Investment Programme, which in the last five years in our country is constantly falling. So all this means that the Ministry of Transport and Networks, the Ministry of Shipping, the region, the municipalities, the state port funds and each such body must plan, meet and coordinate with the other in order to do all this. That is why - and I am ending my first speech - very little has been done. The rhythms with which these exhibitions, both the Polytechnic and the captains, are covered, are turtle rhythms. Some things are being done, they are being financed, some interventions are being studied, but they are very slowly, and the reason for this is what I have mentioned. Indeed, since 2012, which is the Captains' report, so far, very little has been done. The update - the 2002 study of the National Technical University of Athens, compared to the 2011 study - found that between 2002 and 2011 little improved. It is a permanent and timeless problem and really needs to be designed very differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister. Mr Nikolaos Kouzilos, Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, now speaks for a second. Mr. Kouzeli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u8	You said, Minister, that there is no single master plan. However, there is the Secretariat-General for Ports, Port Policy and Maritime Investment and through the Secretariat-General, it can become a single master plan and find a solution. In addition, let us not forget that Mr von Wogau is here. 4150 which actually has the calli-state ports - if you remember well, you were against the calli-state ports - can be used to make the master plan of the area or the region. Also, we now see a press release on September 17, 2015 from the Ministry of Shipping, which talks about a Public Investment Program of the General Secretariat of Ports and Port Policy of EUR 4.3 million. You'll tell me it's too little because of the circumstances. We must not forget, however, that Greek ports live, exist and help the local population on our islands. Insularity is a very big part of our lives. In addition, a single and modern programme for investment, reconstruction, etc. will need to be developed. of our ports. I will set you a very simple example. Tinos Port, due to the fact that the medal was too small, the whole port was made wrong. The ship enters, there is the unclear term "safe velocity" and "safe approach", the port administration considers that the ship's speed is high and the master goes self-contained. You know, you know, we've told you many times. In fact, you also dealt with this issue in 2012 with your question. You knew the subject. So, you need to see and find the solutions. I do not believe that the economic problem is the only one at the moment. There is a question of coordination, for me, and the problem that some agencies have to start working together and consult each other. It's a combination of things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kouzilo. Mr Theodoros Dritsas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I will not disagree with your final conclusion, except this is the existing institutional framework that has already shaped realities and its change is not that simple. In other words, the Secretariat-General of Ports of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs promotes and speeds up procedures for the completion of scheduled port projects but does not have the power to carry out public works under the existing legislation. These are carried out by the services of the Ministry of Transport and Network Infrastructure or by the services of the decentralised administrations or regions of the country or by port agencies or by port funds. Subsequently, the areas of responsibility of port authorities are involved and the total number of projects carried out are referred to either in regional programmes or in an NRP. And I'm telling you again that unfortunately, port projects are not eligible now. The Juncker programmes need other kinds of intervention. Consortium needs high competitive intervention with very large studies and all of this. I wish there would be interest in and there would be combined networks for ports, on the basis of a public body set up by business networks. There, then, for 2016 this year, we have eighty-two projects totalling EUR 61,840,865,35. It is precisely because it is an exact amount. The implementation agencies, as I have told you, are the agencies, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the region. All this means coordination, what you end up with. We want another institution for the execution of port projects. We're studying it. In any case, the needs of a hundred forty-five port projects, a total budget of EUR 13,173.445.31, have been recorded. These are part of the Public Investment Programme. We have no room to cover the whole amount. We cover part of it, namely EUR 6,475,000, and have been proposed to be covered by the 2015 Public Investment Programme. It's a small amount. Of course, when we talk about port projects here, they are from interventions like those relating to shelters, shadows, shadows or anything else up to more serious port interventions. But we are not talking about large and structured port projects. We are talking about exorcism, upgrading, maintenance, which is very necessary, because there are certain ports where risks are now created. We are moving in this direction. We have a lot of hope in the committees set up by the General Secretariat of Public Works of the Ministry of Transport. We suggested that the masters should be called there and the masters should be involved. It is our proposal and has been accepted. I hope that it will be implemented. We have hopes in the national cruise committee, which, over the next month, I estimate that it will now be set up and will be a very good advisor to the state on those issues, but also to the Committee on Island Policy of the General Secretariat of the Aegean, which is now complete. There are two - three participations to be completed in order to make the official start of its operation and to go beyond the application of the Isle of Insularity Regulations. All this will be good tools for a better design. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. With the placement of the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Dritsa, the answer to the timely question has been completed. The fourth question will be discussed with number 969-11-2015, the first question by the MP of Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR, Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Research and Religious Education on the European School of Heraklion and the coverage of educational gaps in the schools of Crete. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of State, Theodos Peglinis. We give the floor to the Member, Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglu, for two minutes, to develop his timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Let me say that I had the opportunity to develop the content of the question during the debate on a similar question on education to the Minister, Mr Anagnastopoulou. However, it was kept in mind that she was not aware of the matter as unreserved. So we have the debate today on the School of European Education, such as its title. It was founded in Heraklion about ten years ago with a law passed by the Greek Parliament, harmonised, of course, with the institutional framework at European level, in order to register and teach it pupils who are workers' children at ENISA, a body established for the safety of networks and telecommunications based in Heraklion and other related services relating to the European Union. The School of European Education, obviously, had a year-on-year growth after starting from a class or classes and then went to high school. This development since 2005, of course, also needed technical support and logistical infrastructure, as well as real estate expansion and similar recruitment to teachers either on an annual basis or on a permanent basis that can be seconded, as far as I know. This year was the year when the school had to be certified, in order to continue its operation. Different problems have arisen. In the past few days, as far as I know, there has been a government cooperation with the corresponding European institution that monitors European schools. I would like the Minister to inform us whether these discussions and the escalation visit to Heraklion have brought positive results for the school's accreditation. The second question concerns the entire schools of the island and the educational gaps that exist - despite the latest intakes made after the legislation made by the House - to be able to use funds from the Public Investment Programme for the recruitment of substitutes in primary and secondary education. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Theodosis Pelgini, will answer. You have the floor for three minutes, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, the European School in Heraklion, as the Member, Mr Kegeroglu, said, was founded in August 2005 in order to provide education to pupils of the European Network and Information Security Agency, known as ENISA. The operation of the European Education School results from Greece's commitment under the ENISA Installation Convention. The fact that part of the organization was transferred to Athens results in a reduction in the number of pupils of the European Education School. Based on the very small number on the English-speaking section of the students, a category in which the children of the employees of the organization are subject, every effort is made to do so, even if there is a student per class. The operation of the European school is inextricably linked to the operation of ENISA in Heraklion, as I said before. The Ministry continues to strive to ensure the certification of Heraklion's European Education School. Having regard to the report of the European inspectors of the European Schools, the Ministry proceeded to: First, in defining the curriculum of the sixth and seventh grades of the secondary cycle and in regulating issues relating to the European Licensor's examinations under Ministerial Decision No 136208/H2/17-9-2015, which harmonized the Greek legislation with the Staff Regulations of the seconded staff of the European Schools. Second, at the secondment to the School of European Education, on 27-8-2015, four primary school teachers and six secondary school teachers. On 18-9-2015 and on 12-11-2015, seventeen appropriations were allocated for the recruitment of secondary and tertiary assistants for the English-speaking departments of the school, while the remaining gaps are covered by teachers belonging to the Directorates of Primary and Secondary Higher Education of Heraklion Crete. Thirdly, for the building, the University of Crete under the decision number 338/11-6-2015 of the Senate made available the former buildings of the University on Knossos Street, the renovation of which is the responsibility of the Municipality of Heraklion and other national institutions responsible for the school buildings. Within the next few days, the last autopsy will be carried out in this building awarded by the University of Crete. The project is EUR 300,000 for the work envisaged in the technical study. The Municipality of Heraklion secured the amount of 120,000 euros from the Region of Crete for the work of the above building. Now, as regards the gaps in the schools of Crete, mentioned by the honourable Member, I would like to say that in these schools the number of appropriations allocated to the recruitment of substitute teachers, both general education and special education, either through the regular budget or from the Ministry of Education's Public Investment Programme, is extremely limited due to the country's general budget situation, and therefore these appropriations are not sufficient to cover all the existing operational gaps in the country. However, Mr Papoutsis, ten thousand ninety-seven recruits of teachers have so far been carried out. I would like to point out that, in general, despite the unfavourable economic situation, the recruitment of Deputy Professors has increased by 20% over last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Theodosis Pelgini. The reason for this is that the Member of Parliament has the floor for three minutes of the Democratic Incorporation, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is easy, after all, to refer to a necessary decision on the programme of the sixth and seventh years, that the European School was growing year after year, so not all could have been done since the first day, which means that it constantly needs the attention of the State, as expressed by the Ministry of Education, the region and the Municipality, and of course through the Regional Education Department responsible. You told us about some things that have been done. I think we should give more weight, much more weight. It's not just a question of the kids they're studying. There is a more general issue of a negative report from our country to the European institutions. Therefore, I ask you to bend more on the subject, to help the Municipality of Heraklion financially in order to be able to renovate the buildings of the University of Crete in the area of Knossos - this is what the area is called, it is not in antiquities near, but it is called - to solve once and for outside now that we have full development of this theme of the building. Of course the subject of teachers is very important. But be careful. The Secretary-General of the European Schools tells us that the presence of ENISA in Heraklion, as has been informed by the relevant body, is at risk because of the uncertification of the school. You said today, and others have said so, that the school is not going well because ENISA has already carried services. You can understand that, on the one hand, and on the other, the result is the same, that ENISA is weakened in Heraklion - it does not concern you - and at the same time, those who weaken him to find an excuse for the unintended and flawed operation of the school and the possible non-certification. That's why I'm asking you to bend on this. Because they will find us the excuse from both Greek authorities, if you want and from European authorities, that because it was not working well in the European school, they have transferred a whole body. And it's not that the transfer takes place in Athens. They want to take him from Greece. That is the second step. It is perhaps the only organization - it is another in Thessaloniki I think - that has a seat in our country. And because it is also a timely organization, it covers modern needs, security, communications and networks, I think that on the part of the Ministry of Education should not be given the alibi for the fate of the organization. And for the school itself, however, it is worth it to do five things more than we would do under other circumstances, because it is precisely because this year that this accreditation has to be done. In 2014 it was the previous one. We should already have successfully completed some of the conditions laid down. Even now we have to do it. I was under the impression and I was waiting - if you have to tell us in your speech - that you have been informed by the Secretary-General of the European Schools about the contact he had on what he intends to do with accreditation. It's very important. If we have not been officially informed, it would be good, beyond the contact in which the Secretary-General came to Heraklion, to come as a ministry, if there is any gap that we can fill by the last hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Kegerau. Now he will answer second-guessing Mr. Theodos Pelogrinis, State Secretary for Education, Research and Religious Affairs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u18	Mr Kegeroglu, you are right that this is a very important organisation and the state must support the European school in Heraklion. The fact that these employees were transported, a part of the Agency in Athens, is not, of course, due to the Greek state. And I want to assure you that at the moment there are eleven foreign-language children at this school. And a child stays, we'll make sure there's a teacher for this kid. It is very serious and that is why we have been very serious about this. I would like to tell you that representatives of parents and teachers and also the Secretary of the European Schools visited me and we discussed this issue. Of course, we are aware that this certification is to be done and we have discussed that we can meet the requirements that such a school must have. What I want to assure you is that we have not neglected this school. We recognise its importance and we will make every effort to deal with any problems. But I would like to tell you that these problems are not solely due to the Ministry of Education and the state. We must all help to overcome them with good will. It's not so tragic about this school as it's left to be understood by your denology. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u19	So it's completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u20	Let me add something if I may, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u21	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u22	Right now - I say this because you said there is a lack of staff - there is for all children, Greek-language and foreign-language, a teacher for five students.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u23	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u24	Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu, for a little while.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u25	The small proportion certainly shows that there are people who do not exist in public schools, which is why I asked about public schools at the same time. Sadly, however, the small number and specialties require that this staff should be able to teach at another school next door. Not to be exclusively for this school. Therefore, to facilitate recruitment for two schools. He doesn't have to do two hours' lesson. And since you are here - without having to continue the debate today - I should like to tell you that questions have been raised, which we have tabled, with regard to the pan-Hellenic examinations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u26	But don't go there.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u27	It's not about today's question. You should be informed by the press and by any appropriate way about these questions. I've filed reports for you. There's a lot of the students' questions that they have to say about schools. Thank you for the tolerance and for the intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. However, the thought - a proposal put forward by Mr Kegeroglu for the use of teachers in neighbouring schools - seems to be very interesting, Mr Secretary, and we should see it quite seriously. To proceed to the fifth, with number 120/10-11-2015, a top-level question for the Z's Vice-Chairman of the Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of health workers as subsidiary or through CEDEFOP at the public health units. The current question will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr. George Lambroulis has the floor for two minutes to develop his timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. By December 2015, around the end of December, hundreds of health contracts working as subsidiarys are concluded, i.e. as contractors with annual contracts or through CIRRN at public health units, and are in danger of being fired and even greater problems arise in the already subordinated health units. At the same time, the empty organic positions - according to poor government health establishments - exceed twenty-six thousand in medical, nursing and other paramedical and auxiliary personnel. Of course, the recruitments announced by the government, even if they all take place, are not enough to cover even this year's health pensions at the end of 2015 or at the beginning of 2016. So the questions we ask the Ministry of Health are what measures will it take, in what direction will it move in order to re-enter those workers who ended their contract or will it end? We say and permanentize all health workers with flexible working relationships whether they are subsidiary or through CEDEFOP - as I said before - the five-month-olds, etc., who, in our view, should have full working rights. And, of course, what action will the Ministry take to immediately recruit the permanent staff of all the specialities needed to serve the state health and welfare units in order to fully meet the public health needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u31	My dear colleague, I think you are right to point out the huge gaps that the health system currently has in human resources - whether it concerns doctors, nurses or paramedical staff - and, of course, with funding. This year was a difficult year for the system. We have had the cumulative impact of drastic cuts that have occurred over the past five years in the operational costs of hospitals and also the cumulative impact of the freezing of recruitment of permanent staff for over six years. The gaps are, to a very small extent, covered by these tyre recruitments, so let us say, industrial relations, i.e. ancillary staff, CEDEFOP contracts, programmes financed by the NRP, five-month public works and so on. What we have tried to do since the beginning of the year is to ensure that we do not lose human resources during the year. You know very well that there has been an amendment which has been passed by law and has enabled the contracts of ancillary staff, which are about a thousand people, five hundred doctors and five hundred other nurses and paramedical staff to be extended. This was extended by regulation of ours until 31 December. We had hoped that within this period we could proceed with a hiring package mainly of permanent staff. This has not been possible for various reasons, and that is why now in the first bill that will come in this House these days, we are in agreement with the General Secretariat of the Government, there will be new legislation that will extend the mandate and those whose contract ends until 31 December, but also those who are working in hospitals or in primary care facilities, in rural health centres and in CEDEFOP, and that will also involve doctors and other staff. This extension will be until 30 September. In this way and with the recruitment packages of permanent staff we believe we are creating stability conditions in the system. You know very well that the contest for about a thousand places has been launched by the AACC and we have the assurance that by the end of the year we will have the first results and therefore early 2016 these people will be able to appoint and meet emergency needs in hospitals. Obviously these positions are inadequate. But there will also be a second package of some two and a half thousand permanent staff - we hope that in February we will be able to publish them - by also working in consultation with the AACC to speed up the process and that these people will be able to fill additional gaps in the first half of the year. This will also be practically easier, because from the first notice there will be this tank of applications on the basis of which there will be rolling lists of successful ones, and they will be able to be appointed quickly in the next phase. I think that in this way we are giving a signal that the process of disorganising the system is stopping. You already know very well that we have been able to increase by EUR 150 million in a difficult financial year the expenditure limit in hospitals and this has given a financial injection and has facilitated their supply in the last few months of 2015. We believe that we will be able when the budget is discussed to present an even more noticeable upgrade of the financing of the system for 2016. And I think that 2016 will indeed be a year for stabilising operational, financial and administrative and gradual upgrading of the system. I believe that this year, which was really difficult, has had too many gaps, many needs uncovered will be past, and we will give society the priority that it needs in this sensitive area, in the area of public care, which is also a great wage for the government to be reorganised, reorganised, overcome the sufferings and distortions of the past and give society security that at the time of the need, at the time of the illness of every person in that country, regardless of whether he is a worker or an unemployed person, regardless of whether he is insured or uninsured, regardless of whether he is rich or poor can have reliable medical care.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos. Mr. Lambroulis has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened carefully to the Minister, and of course the announcements and amendments which extended the contracts of the already serving health personnel are known. Even if we take into account February, as you said, the two and a half thousand positions that you said will be launched together with the thousand, which I am passing away, are one of the previous governments - for five and six years, the nineteen, one thousand, and one thousand, which we expect to appoint - two and a half thousand, and three and a half thousand - to put it as a whole. But here there are more than six thousand missing. In hospitals right now, you know the picture, as every Greek who is also accustomed to health services in state units and not only in hospitals, but also in health centres, etc. There are beds in intensive care units that are closed due to lack of staff. I don't mean from the existing staff, through CEDEFOP or the AS. What's gonna happen? I'm telling you one example. They're closing down departments in hospitals and they've been blocked enough, because they don't have any staff. You'll tell me there might be a hierarchy, but see now. Three thousand - if I'm not mistaken about that number - will retire by the end of '15, the first quarter of '16. So, 'bad boats', let me say it like that. In other words, within '16, it is a question of whether the two and a half thousand or the thousands may be able to meet these needs which will only arise from retirement, not those which, of course, have reached this figure for over six thousand years. We don't have any illusions. We say that it should be understood that, behind all these problems and with regard to funds, state funding, staff shortages, shortages in materials, consumables, medical equipment for hospitals, state health units as a whole, there is a specific cause. A specific policy that has been unfolding for years, both from previous governments and from the present government and is being implemented, which says what? A cut in the name of budgetary needs, a cut in government expenditure, a reduction in any social costs, if we focus only on health, and of course a reduction and retention of what? The labour cost. And of course this has something to do with what? With the development path followed in our country over the last few years and in front of the crisis, but also any prospect of recovery after the crisis, which wants what? Strengthening the competitiveness of the capitalist economy, which, in order to recover, also requires that state spending, staff, etc. be reduced. In practice, therefore, this is translated not only by reducing or, if you like, setting up health wages but also by continuing the regime of the enormous shortages of health units to permanent staff, intensifying working conditions with what it results in the workers themselves, but also much more for the patients. It is precisely because it has to be served - and this is an option for the current government - this development path and recruitment will move to the limits of the current inadequate number and the status of flexible working relationships will be extended at the same time. Excuse me very much, even 50% is not even staff with permanent and stable work in hospitals as a whole. It is covered by subsidiarys - or, anyway, to put it on the more general terms - of all types of elastic forms of work and with minutes and with apprenticeships and blocks, etc. So now see how the government and the state in general are even blocking this obligation, so that it can charge payroll costs, i.e. the labour costs of those employed - if you want - with this type of employment relationship, to the hospitals themselves, to which you are maintaining the status of self-employment. So what? They will be paid with own resources, which means from the insurance funds, if they are gradually reduced - and here it is apparent from the third memorandum that state health spending is cut down, at least by 2018 - so that hospitals are forced to take them from patients or from the funds in order to hire, that is, hospitals themselves will pay. But if they have no revenue, if they do not have to pay, they will not hire and so they will not provide services, they will close sections and the chain continues. I shall end with this, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. This policy must be taken by our people - the workers, the health workers - to condemn it as a whole and to organise their struggle, their claims to overthrow this policy. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u34	Thank you Mr. Lambroulis from the Communist Party of Greece. The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. We have had this debate too many times, Mr Lambroulis. In fact, I think that, beyond the general political debate, there is a very specific reality today in our country, which we at least owe as a government to deal with in terms of realism. The gaps are huge. To fill these gaps quickly and automatically with the recruitment of permanent staff, I think you understand that this cannot be done in a short time. What we are promoting is an intervention to strengthen the system with permanent staff for the first time after six years. This is a political signal that public care is a priority for us and that we are not consistent with the image of deorganisation and the achievement of public structures. At the same time, however, we are making use of all the available forms of employment relationships, precisely to strengthen stability in the system and to obtain valuable time, because you know very well that recruitment of permanent staff, especially doctors, is being delayed very much. That is why we are also making use of subsidiary staff and blocks and five-month contracts and any legal employment relationship, to help a system that is at risk and to meet the needs of people who are currently out of access to public care. We are going to move to the first bill the universal coverage of uninsured people. We will therefore strengthen citizens' access to public hospitals, and that is why we want to support them in terms of staffing and funding. We have increased the spending limit since this year, also for the first time after a five-year cut and austerity. This is also a signal to the priority of this sector in the context of government policy. We believe that the expenditure limit will be even more increased in the 2016 budget. So there is no such thing as a'reimbursement of expenditure' or a Memorandum of Understanding. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000. The priority for us is public care. We're people of public care, dear colleague, and we've served her for years. We know very well, firsthand, what it means to fight in the emergency, to fight in the emergency department, to offer reliable care, to cover shifts in subordinated sections. We believe that, with these interventions, by strengthening and speeding up the coverage of subsidiary doctors at this time - you know that there are five hundred fifty requests, we have already signed over a hundred twenty appointments in the past few days - we are constantly strengthening this attempt to fill gaps. Today we signed the possibility of specializing eighty-six doctors in intensive care units. This will also be a staff injection in the suboptimals today and suboptimal intensive care units. I believe that combined all these interventions create a better and upgraded expectation in the next period. The central political direction of the government in this budget that will soon come to Parliament is to have a budget for social policy, to support both public welfare and welfare in our country. This is the political signal of this government and we believe that this is how we respond to the needs of a society in a protracted economic and social crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos. Mr. Red, I know your request, but the Deputy Minister hasn't come. So we'll move on...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u37	I'll answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u38	Will you respond, Minister? Very nice. Then, because a request was made by MP Larisa of the Independent Greeks, his timely question with the understanding of this House must be preceded. So we move on to the sixth Question No 117/10-11-2015 topical question by MP Larissa of the Independent Greeks Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Health, on the lack of a crownist at the General University Hospital of Larissa. In the timely question, the Minister will answer Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr. Red, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you well know, the General University Hospital of Larissa serves thousands of patients from both Thessaly and the surroundings. A coroner is expected to be installed in the hospital's cardiological clinic. Thousands of patients are afflicted, addressing hospitals either Athens or Thessaloniki. The cause of the delay is purely bureaucratic because of the non-legal establishment of the hospital board of directors. In my view, this delay is tragic. Questions: What actions do you intend to take to overcome all the bureaucratic obstacles that have to do with the immediate and timely installation of the coroner at the hospital's cardiological clinic?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u40	Thank you. Mr Andreas Xanthos, Minister for Health, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u41	My dear colleague, to a large extent, the substance of the question has been answered from last week in a debate which has been distributed here in the Chamber between your fellow Member, Mr Bargiotas and the Deputy Minister. I answer today because the deputy had a coma. What I would like to say is that, with the amendment that we tabled a few days ago - it has already been published in FEK on 9-11-2015 - we have legalised the composition and functioning of the administrative boards, where there has been an administrative gap for more than three months, as foreseen by the law. In this sense, the problem that existed in the legal composition and functioning of the Board of Directors of the University Hospital of Larissa has been restored. Already from what I have been informed by the Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, he has been increasingly meeting to address the outstanding issues that had been accumulated in the previous period. He told me that this is the fifth time he met together today, in order to deal with, among other things, this looseness with the NRP but also to complete the procurement not only of the coroner but also of other machinery necessary for the proper functioning of the hospital. So I think this has gone ahead and this function has been restored. In fact, I believe that a large regional hospital, such as the hospital in Larissa, will have the care it needs in the next period to meet the increased needs of a very large area that covers populations today and continue to provide reliable and upgraded tertiary health services to the citizens of your regions. On this occasion, I would like to say that this year was indeed a year that was also an administrative year in the system, which could very much have had a negative impact on the overall operational problems that existed before. But we believe that we are in the final straight line to resolve this problem on a firm basis. The Ministry's Evaluation Committee was set up. We have the suggestions from the Ministry administrations for the active administrators and sub-professionals of hospitals. The Evaluation Committee will invite them and receive a personal interview from each of them. He will evaluate the reports submitted by the Ministry and recommend to the Ministry's political leadership which can remain in their positions, because they will be judged adequate and cooperative and people who have responded to the needs of public hospitals at this time and which will need to be replaced. Then there will be a call of interest with specific criteria and we will call on people who have the opportunity and the CVs and knowledge to command the system to deposit their availability. They will be evaluated by this evaluation committee provided by the law and also in a very transparent and valuable manner, the Ministry's political leadership will make the final choices. At the same time, at the same time, we are promoting the replacement of the nominated members of the Boards, as the law provides, and I believe that in the next two to three months at the latest, the administration of the system will be fully normalised, and the workers in the system and citizens will be able to feel that these critical services can be managed in the most rational way and the fewer human and material resources that our country has at this time will have to be fairly distributed, based on the needs of the hospitals and on the real gaps that exist, which - as we know - are - especially in the province.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u42	Thank you. Mr. Red, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u43	We have to fight with the pathogens of many years in public administration. Everything that hasn't happened for forty years has to be done now. I honor your work. But even though I'm not a doctor, I know the coroner is a machine that has the ability to diagnose very serious health problems. Because I am a lawyer, I will say something about all the public administration and in this respect: there is the term 'due relevance' between the event and the damage. We must in this country at last get everyone to do their job properly and, if it can't, give an explanation. If a resident in a village in Elassona suffers a serious health problem, which only the coroner can find out, then there is likely to be a causal link with the damage he had suffered. I wish - I beat wood - that damage is not irreparable. It should have been the coroner in the cardiological clinic yesterday, because he would never have been able to go to Thessaloniki or come here to Athens, so that he could get directly into surgery. The reason is the bureaucracy that has been afflicting us all these years. You must finally run them, Minister. Your work is already well known, but we are dealing with the good of health. And in these things, I want us to be very careful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u44	Thank you. The Minister has the floor, Mr. Andreas Xanthos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u45	I would just like to make a very brief comment. I agree with these points. Obviously, it cannot be reconciled with this picture of the huge delays in carrying out changes and upgrades that both infrastructure and equipment are needed in public hospitals, in the name of bureaucracy. You know very well that the funding of these projects by the ESRB has had and still has too many problems. There have been delays there too. There were works that were not well designed. They have not been able to mature the studies and we have reached the end of the ESDP and enough of them - I am talking about the country as a whole - have endured. The effort we made in consultation with the relevant Ministry was in the health field: all the projects involving critical system infrastructures and equipment to go ahead, and even if some of them for reasons of time did not manage to repay and surrender until 31 December, there would be a possibility of a bridge in the next programme so that they would soon be completed. However, I think that - beyond these needs related to the infrastructure and equipment of the system - a great challenge for the system is now to invest in human resources. I think there have been several investments in equipment. It takes many hospitals, upgraded at this level, and we need to put a priority on them, particularly hospitals upgraded, tertiary, university hospitals which obviously have these kinds of critical sections to address the urgent heart problem. I believe that investment really and the great challenge must be to strengthen the system with human potential and to overcome the well-known phenomenon that there are fully equipped sections that cannot function, because there has never been a serious design of recruitment of qualified medical and paramedical personnel. This is for us the great bet at this time, to plan the recruitments, which I have mentioned before, in such a way that there is a targeted support for such sections of the invasive sections, related to the cardiovascular sector, oncology departments, intensive treatment units, artificial kidney units, radiation therapists and adults, particularly where there are huge waiting lists. I therefore believe that in this way we can strengthen system functions that are very vital to the quality of care. That is what we will try to do in the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. We move to the sixth question under number 116/10-11-2015. First question from the MEP, Achaias, the Independent Greeks. Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the self-reliance of the Greek Open University. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Athanasia Anagnostopoulou. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. It will look as if the juncture of two Ajai, one in the government headquarters, and the other here in the parliamentary seats, is happy to have a matter before them, Madam Minister, I am sure - because I have followed your statements - that you will not tell us that it is a planning issue - as we have heard just now - and that you will give a clear answer to that answer which many of you have not given. Twenty years, Mr President, the Greek Open University has truly won - everyone knows about it in and out of Greece - an adventurous position on the scientific area. Students' interest is multiples of the possibilities they have and therefore, as you know, so far many people have come to the clerk to attend their courses. And yet, in these twenty years, it has not yet been possible to implement the existing legislation, which provides for the institution's self-responsibility and has been abusive to date. Looking at the questions today, Minister, which I have done over all these twenty years to all the ministers, the Prime Ministers, I see that I have been 'new and old' here too. I was still a member of the New Democracy and said to them 'why do we have administrations - ghosts, administrations where they did not come, administrations that had resigned and were not replaced?' Finally, you know at the very fast pace - ironically I say, unfortunately - he was replaced and finally appointed an administration, which we all hope will have success in the difficult task he has undertaken. Besides, it's made up of serious faces and it looks from the first steps that it's probably going to work. But, Minister, we would like today and on the basis of what you know, as you know - I am sure - the last decision of the assembly of teaching staff and research staff, clearly and unequivocally to commit to when it will begin. I am not talking about whether it should be done. I imagine I'm breaking open doors, so I'm saying, let's hear dates. Don't listen to design anymore, your answer doesn't look like the previous ones' answer. When will the process of electing the dean, the council and the board of this higher education institution finally begin, the establishment of the congress? In any case, is it possible - we would like to hear your comment - that the public administration can suspend, freeze a law, when this law is based on a fundamental constitutional principle, which, as you know, wants higher education institutions to have full self-government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Mrs Ithanasia Anagnostopoulos, Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u49	Dear colleague and abbreviation, I am pleased that you have shown the interest you have shown in the Greek Open University and your questions have shown it in the past not only in the current government. I would therefore like to assure you that our interest in the government's political leadership, like the current governor, is just as strong. We fully agree and it is the beginning of a government, such as ours, that universities, and this university, must have self-reliance. However, and because I have discussed very much with the staff of the Open University, some steps need to be taken to ensure this self-reliance. The first problem we had to deal with as political leadership but also the new management committee was the problem of administrative officials. There is no permanent administrative staff in the PSC. For 20 years. We have arrived to date and ask the academic staff for separatism without the first basic condition, for the administrative function of the university to be studied, and for it to have been established with a permanent staff, with an organogram showing what personnel it needs. That's the first. I am telling you the steps to be taken to ensure self-reliance, which is directly in our intentions and the political leadership and the commander. So we had to deal with this major problem. You know, Mr. Nicholas, that he would collapse the university and the previous management did nothing to predict that he needed permanent administrative personnel or to secure the existing administrative staff. So we had this major problem. Secondly, the necessary institutional steps must be taken to reach separatism, and these institutional steps will always be anticipated, in cooperation with the staff of the PSC. Thirdly and importantly: an internal regulation. Is it possible for a university that has been operating for twenty years and wants to reach self-responsibility not to have an internal regulation? We don't have that yet. We are immediately starting these steps, starting with the administrative staff and hoping very quickly to get to the university's self-determination, but having been shielded in such a way. You know that a Minister's provision to self-determination the university says absolutely nothing if there are no preconditions for segregation. We believe that in a reasonable period of time there will be. We have also said with the teachers' club members who came and talked to the Ministry, that before Christmas celebrations we will have a debate to put this timetable forward, so that this major issue can finally be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Minister. Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u51	I have no reason to question what you have said. But I have to say that there is one paragraph in the content of the question that I took care of from their decision, which says that all the conditions are met. And I have no reason to argue against, not just because you're like me or because we're just sympathetic, but because I don't know why I don't know to tell you that you're probably wrong. But they'll answer you, they're sure. I am told that already in our constituency and the Open University and the media are following this debate. So if you didn't say anything accurate, you'll be judged. I declare that I do not know and wish to say that everything you have said will obviously be true, because I know that you did have communication and contact with them. I would, however, like you to tell us the timetable. For example, with regard to these poor workers, the hostages - to say it by his name - I don't know - good luck! - maybe the "bad" kids have this price to have and when you're annoying in power, you can't have any part of the spoil. In these two hundred I, Minister, have no one and no one I put them on the side road. But don't I hide you that I too asked questions, as you know, here and I said, "Is it possible? Are we going to start the micro-party game again? Is there only a god and a government for the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance? Isn't there for them?' But because for these two hundred, there is also a response from the chairman of the Management Committee, who says, Mr President, that they will stay until August and after August, we will see with what molecules, how we will declare the positions, I would like to ask you for the timetable. You know they're workers who obviously don't blame them because they've been held hostage for so many years. I think, Minister, that you should, for the reasons that you have said, for their necessity, for their usefulness, after being evaluated - if you also want us to enter this trip of an objective assessment, not to assess a Mrs.Kyriakos Mitsotakis, an assessment of normal, not a monkey - to tell them, why many - you know that, and you, down in Achaia - are being dealt with - are concerned about another, on the other hand, a micro-party or micro-political game going to stand. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, it is incomprehensible - and I stop here - that, Mr President, workers of a Greek university, as you have heard from the Minister, with three thousand students and two thousand teaching staff, from the resources of the NRP. And if they hadn't ensured it, that's why you too were surprised when you wondered why that noise was up, because they could have been given the answers in time and, indeed, that this tension, anxiety, but - if you like - and misinformation and information to the public. So if you can tell us a few more words. You have opened it up - and you have well done - the question of workers. Fortunately, what you told us today is the same as what you said outside the House. And for the timeline, I think it would be very useful if you had something more specific to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. The Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, has the floor for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u53	On the issue of administrative officials, Mr Nicholas, I have again answered a timely question in this House, but I also spoke to the workers in Patras, where I went to their assembly. So I'll say the same thing. Besides, we're committed to these things. We have ensured - not very easily and after too much thought - with the chairman of the board of directors, Mr Cardassis, until the academic year is over, that no administrative staff will be tempted so as not to undermine the functioning of the university. We said we needed an establishment plan at the university, to see what these administrative agencies are to be permanently covered. We will therefore make legislation in this period by August - you will be here to judge us - so that we can cover the positions of administrative staff permanently, i.e. have a permanent employment relationship, because it is incomprehensible to depend on the NRP. And that's what I'm saying we're committed to doing. Here we go. For the time being, I cannot say at this time that in March we will have the segregation of the PSC. What I said - and I wish they would listen to us, because I say the same thing I have said to them - is that we will take these institutional steps that will preserve the university. Before the celebrations, I will meet with the workers and we will decide with the Management Committee the timetable for this case of segregation. But I mean, Mr Nicolopoulos, one thing I'm dealing with at the Ministry: I've been at the Ministry for a month and a half. Suddenly, people, who are certainly right, on issues that have been pending for many years and say to you "do a law now". If I'm not informed, if I don't see why the legal counsel...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u54	They think we're their own people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u55	Yes, of course. And that is the intention, and with that intent became the new commander. Of course I do. But I have a reasonable time to be informed. Why, for example, did the Legal Adviser of the OSH say that the provision of segregation cannot be done? Why do the Ministry of Education say that? In order for there to be a law and to solve a problem definitively, it must take these interim steps. We talked to some representatives of the workers who came to the Ministry today and agreed on some steps. When we're ready, we'll also announce them here in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u56	Madam Minister, the two hundred after August will go to the unemployment fund?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u57	No, no, Mr. Nicolopoulos. They're not going for the unemployment fund. And that's why we talked about it. It is a matter of the university, since it has for so many years a hundred and seventy-seven employees, to have such an organizational chart covering these positions and more and more.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u58	Besides, unfortunately - you're a university student - you know university workers are relatives, friends, nephews.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u59	All right, thank you. It's not what you call it, Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u60	However, I do not think it is possible to do so, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u61	Before we proceed to the next time-limit, a few communications to the House. The Foreign, Home and Administrative Reconstruction Ministers, Economy, Development and Tourism, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Finance and the Deputy Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Economics, Development and Tourism submitted a draft law on 13-11-2015: "Strengthening the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Australia on regulating visas for youth mobility (Work and Holiday Visa). It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The Committee on Finance of the Parliament shall submit its report to the draft budget of the Parliament, for the financial year 2016, and to Parliament's statement of expenditure for the financial year 2014. MEP Mr Theocharis Theocharis asks for a short-day absence abroad, for the dates of 22-26 November, for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u62	The House approved the requested permission. We move to the debate of the first under number 106-10-11-2015 topical question from the Evia MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Excellency to the Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, on the construction of a frontal toll station on the Shadow-Chalkida motorway. The Minister will answer Mr. Spirtzis. Your Honor, you have two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u63	Minister, we are once again dealing with the issue of toll construction on the Schemarios-Chalkida motorway. Unfortunately, it seems that this is not accepted by the Evia society, by all the actors who have been responding for three years with the logic of building tolls on this road, which relates to the Shadow and Chalkida at the height of Kalochori - Pantechios. Furthermore, the company ‘NEAO’, which has undertaken to build these tolls, is being put into implementation and the concessionaire has already launched the procedures for the expropriation of twenty-five acres required for the construction of the frontal tolls in this area. Evia is one of the largest prefectures, and the accident is that a new road enters into an arched network and this should become an object of the state as well, see what will happen with Evia. Secondly, Evia, as a prefecture of unemployment and de-industrialisation, with the effects of the crisis, primarily at local employment levels, now also accepts this challenge. I think our arguments are crucial and serious. Since workers in Evia who have remained and because of the deindustrialisation of the region, work by majority in the BIP Shapes, or even in Attica, on this path daily, because the cost of the already affected family budget will lead the drivers to use the old road - "carmaniola" Shape - Chalkidas, which already counts as dozens of victims, because it is essentially paradoxical that Eubots pay a price for a station included in the construction project of the Ionian Road, which is typically Antirios - Yannina from Evia, because the highway is a typical public and co-financed by national and European resources and nowhere has the private company "NEODOS" contributed to this project, because this project finds vertically contrary to all citizens and all the actors of the county, which are in the process of mobilisation of the project, Is it in your plan to overturn or reform the contract with concessionaires for the benefit of the citizens and visitors of Evia? In the case of non-flexicurity in the negotiation with concessionaires, analog toll repayment plan has been designed, free of charge for residents, etc.Huh? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Excellency. The Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks will answer Mr Christos Spirtzis. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague, the government had two options: or to accept the contracts it has inherited from previous governments - we are talking about an anti-social, anti-developmental model - which would lead works to a tide, society in decline, or move to unilateral actions, which would entail huge costs for the Greek people themselves and the non-completion of works, too. These were the two streets that originally could choose. You know very well what the clauses envisaged and keeping the country bound in relation to the existing conventions are. In this dilemma we have chosen a third route, a painful, laboring, but effective path, which is negotiation and agreement in terms of guaranteeing the public interest, with social sensitivity and targeted interventions for the weakest strata of the Greek people and with mutual understanding and good faith with those who have undertaken these projects. This is not what we believe to be the best way of implementing public infrastructures. It is not what we believe in either concessions or public-private partnerships, but it is not projects that have started now or have been planned for us. They are works which have contracts which are well-built and in the direction of serving only the banks which finance these projects and the concessionaires. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] Thus any changes provide for the assent of the concessionaires and provide for the assent of the banks they finance and of the institutions of the European Commission. The agreement that has already been announced on this road contains free passages from toll stations to vehicles belonging to or recognised as transferring our fellow citizens with disabilities, with specific kinetic problems. Includes the provision of additional discounts to employees from one municipality to another. In particular, 12.5% of additional free passages are included in the existing programmes that those who use the motorway on a daily basis have. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] There are free moves to the limit of every town - so that we do not have within the same framework what we have in the Horopo Municipality, where we have seven toll stations - that is, for permanent residents of free passages. A toll analogue toll system is provided for. We have already written to start the studies on this, and with the completion of the construction phase, the electronic system of proportional charge will also be in operation. In the context of this agreement, of course, it has also been included in the fact that all judicial cases, criminal prosecutions, injurious claims against the social networks of citizens and the people involved in mobilisations will be lifted. These are the discussions on the first agreement that had been made last summer, to have, if you like, additional points in favour of the Greek public. What I cannot monitor is that we have a local problem in mind, because that is a national problem. It's not just a private problem. It is a bigger problem among the citizens, who are forced to use these motorways, even to get from home to their workplace in the same prefecture, in the same municipality. So the effort we are making is not to favour one county or the other, because I would like to inform you that exactly the same problems you mentioned - and worse perhaps - exist for the inhabitants of Attica or Boeotia, for the whole of Greece, where these motorways run under concessions. So what we are finally aiming, apart from these point-of-point agreements that I have told you just before, is a horizontal reduction in tolls. This has entered into the agreement with a new study, which will demonstrate that projects are sustainable and will calculate other factors, such as having variable time, depending on the transport burden, and not a stable time for concession. And take into account social and development indicators, so that we can have the reverse result from what we have today. I mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u66	Complete in your dentistry, if you're kind, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u67	Yeah. Thank you, Mr President. I apologise for the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u68	Congressman George Aristotle of the Radical Left Coalition has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u69	I would like to say, Minister, that the issue of the analogue distance system I think - I do not know what margin you have with the concessionaires to come to an agreement - is essential. And that will solve a problem, because if we put a toll on the side and abolish the frontals, we won't have any trouble getting the tolls there. Now we seem to pay tolls twice in a distance. And proportionally Evia pays in relation to many other areas more expensive tolls, at least to reach Athens. So, in this sense, I think you should in a way delay these tolls and go to the new way, the system of more proportionate toll performance, which I think will give us a solution. I would like to stress a second point. If today a few people are moving on the side road, which has its bad ones, with a quitting road and accidents occur - in the last few months there have been three major accidents - imagine if they put a toll on what kind of people are going to move there. Previously, when it was our main road, we had too many accidents in that area. I think this is a serious cost both for the economy and for the human resources. We would like to know, because in total the operators have put the toll issue in the area at the top, and we would like to tell you that you need to see them. One request we have is to see them. However, I think that with the sensitivity that you possess, a solution can be found to this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Excellency. Minister Christos Spirtzis has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u71	Me meeting with the authorities of the county, Mr. Colleague, is obvious and will take place this week. Besides, with Evia, you know I have personal relationships, especially. The second is that what you say about the security of the side network is a fact. On many roads there's no security. In neighbouring Evia, from Evia to Boeotia, dozens of accidents occur from the inner street of Elefsina - Thebes - Material. The same goes for the Attica corridors. There the Ministry intends to take very specific measures in relation to the handling of heavy goods vehicles, which, while counting on their costs and on the transport of tolls, use the paradoxes that are for other types of cars and the alternative route of residents. Obviously, the road network of Evia must be seen. It has too many problems, and we need to put a burden on it. But that is where all the actors involved in the construction of the projects must bend up, I mean the region, for Evia. From there on, what I wanted to say before, to conclude, is that we cannot when we are in crisis times and have an obvious effect of reducing the traffic burden, of further burdening the interests of the citizens, of further burdening the difficulties we have for the development of the country with models like those envisaged by the previous governments, by increasing tolls. The existing conventions foresee that. In other words, when the study and model for motorways fails, tolls are increased or new stations are introduced. In fact, these are provided without the approval of the relevant Ministry. They are made automatically by the concessionaire and by the study and information made each year. These are the issues that show how far these models have failed for heavy public infrastructure, but also how well those who are against making such heavy infrastructures with such concessions and with such contracts have failed, and what costs the Greek society has from that. I am sure that we will be able to correct these contracts as much as we can and the new projects that will come out, give our own signal about how concessions should be made and how public-private partnerships for the benefit of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, Mr Christos Spirtzi. The second question, under number 123/10-11-2015, of the second question of the New Democracy MP Drama, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, concerning the evolution of the course of the construction of the Drama Prefecture, will not be discussed due to irresponsibility and deleted. The third, with number 109-10-11-2015, topical question by MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the "delegation of our Macedonian name to the scoppiens", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The fourth question under number 100/9-11-2015 is the second question of the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the lifting of a limitation of twenty kilometres for the free transfer of students of daily and summer PAALs, not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The fifth will be discussed under No 121/10-11-2015 topical question by MP Atolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Moraitis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problems in the operation of the Central Greek TEI and in particular of the Amphisssa Annex. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Athanasia Anagnostopoulou. Mr Moraitis has the floor now to develop his timely question. Here, Mr Moraite, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, an explosive situation is the state of the Central Greek TEI, in all the annexes and in all sections, such as Lamia, Chalkida, Karpenisi, and especially in Amphissa, where the acute problems are in fact threatening the operation of the TEI with complete interruption. The shortages are everywhere huge in staff, educational and administrative, and there are great cuts in its funding. The secretariat operates occasionally, and we also have poor maintenance of facilities and logistics. Under these poor conditions, departments are unable to organise their laboratories. We are also delaying the provision of writings, and in many cases we have even stopped. Finally, we have serious problems in the feeding and housing of students. All these major problems are the result of the anti-grassroots policies it implements in the field of education and the current SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, taking over from the previous New Democracy-PASOK coexistence. These are policies that raise class barriers, provide education and higher education. We have drastic cuts in school costs by charging burdens on the backs of poor people's families to their children. This is the strategy of the European Union that is closely followed by your Government. It is a policy that turns education, education into goods and even expensive and sceptical about poverty. In the face of this explosive situation, Minister, we are asking you what measures are to be taken to ensure that the Central Greek TEI and particularly the Amphissa Annex, where the problems, as I said, are particularly sharp? What measures will you take to fill gaps in educational and administrative staff with a permanent and stable employment relationship? What measures will you take to give direct writings for free to all students? Also, what measures will you take to maintain and equip laboratories and teaching rooms adequately and to ensure free feeding and housing for all regardless of students, Greeks and immigrants?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u74	Thank you Mr. Nikolaos Moraitis, MP of the Communist Party of Greece. As we have said, the question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mrs Ithanasia Anagnostopoulou. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u75	Mr Moraitis, Mr President, I will reply first to your specific questions and then, if I have time or my dentistry, I would like to say two things about the Central Greek TEI and education in general, at least the highest one. As far as the Amphissa Annex is concerned, there is no longer an annex, as you know, there are the two sections. The annex has been repealed and not by us. So there are the two sections. I'll say later, in general, because there have been these steep problems. Anyway, what we have done immediately - and there will be no problem - is that by means of an act of a ministerial council, which has been signed, an extraordinary scientific and laboratory staff will be hired to meet the needs of the TEI and of course the departments of the amphissa. As far as the writings are concerned, there has been no problem with us. As you know, the writings don't distribute the universities or the TEIs. The writings are distributed in specific locations, they go from "Glory" to "Greek" to "Students". In the case of Amphissa, it is distributed by a central bookstore. There has been no such problem to us so far. As far as student care, catering and feeding are concerned, it has not been cut even half of the euros from student care this year. It's barely been redistributed from the Ministry's available resources. As far as building infrastructure is concerned, there are problems in building infrastructure, there are problems in stoves, particularly in the Evia fishing areas, but these are problems, for which we can discuss and why they have been created and how we are trying to resolve them. I would like to say, however, that Amphissa has no problem with building, for the simple reason that the summer has been moved to a new building and now has a new building. I also want to say that Lamia doesn't have any real problems or Karpenissi or Thebe. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of Mrs. Deputy Minister hits the warning bell at the end of the speech time.]] In Chalkida, we do have an old building. However, it has not covered all the building potential of Chalkida and could be housed. That is what I have to say for now, and then I have to say a few more things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister. Mr Moraite, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u77	Madam Minister, after your reply, students and their families must be even more concerned. You did not give a convincing answer. And 'I don't know' or 'I haven't been informed' I don't think it's right. The problems are preoccupied at the Central Greece TEI and, as I mentioned, in the departments of Amphissa Students continue to meet rooms without teachers, no housing, no free feeding. And it is not an answer that you say you have not reduced it. The expenditure on the feeding and housing of students has already been cut, and I shall refer here to them. You put on rabbles. And we want you to answer whether this is the case with regard to the 100 euros that have to pay a guarantee to house students. The greatest problem is: It turns out that the building, which is intended to take lessons, opened a few days ago, on November 2, Madam Minister, a whole month after the official start of the academic year. Didn't you know that? Tell us what measures you took in time. You fully reap the content of the studies when the two departments operate with two permanent teachers yet, after the recruitment of the temporary staff you say and did not. It's just an announcement, after the pressure of the students and the question of the JRC. It's nothing for granted, you say there will be a ministerial decision on them. In our opinion, there can be no serious scientific research and integrated education on the subject chosen by the students with two teachers in the subject, as you say or as it is at the moment. While we have all these explosive problems, today there are the possibilities of having schools that meet the needs for education, education and the service of people's needs. While there are thousands of unemployed teachers, scientists who could serve the schools, we have these huge shortcomings, because such a perspective stumbles - as we say - in the European Union's policy that all your governments and your government are making abundantly effective, on behalf of the capital they want - and this is demonstrated on a daily basis - students to become customers, tomorrow' unemployed, cheap workers. That is what the TEI administration does - I did not say in my protolog, I left it to see if you, Minister - will say so - implementing the guidelines of the Ministry of Education and the Governance, which has adopted a new rules of procedure - an abortion of your own government, which puts students in - and answer here - to pay a guarantee for their accommodation. This same circular imposes a racist quota for student housing and breaks every trade union freedom. Madam Minister, instead of solving these problems for students and students, you are resorting to the tested recipe that the former were following: the criminalisation of the games. At the request of the TEI administration - and this was done by an intervention of the prosecutor - at the moment we have an order for a preliminary examination. Do you know that, Minister? There is a group announcement in the region and also in Greece. Dozens, over fifty unions denounce this criminalization of the games. Why did the administration go to the D.A., in front of the law for students and students for the T.E., so that there could be better conditions of study for the sole public nature of education? That's why the D.A.'s doing the intervention. Because students are struggling, so they can stay in homes for free, so they can live in human conditions. You put this charm I mentioned earlier, while the working people's families still don't have to respond to either the necessary and don't send their children to the TEIs or to the universities and turn them back to the homes when the people's families are narrowing down to poverty and poverty. We believe that the popular movement, the students themselves, should fight exclusively for the public free education of modern folk needs. I would like to say by closing down, as it is forty-two years tomorrow by the heroic Polytechnic uprising, that the demands of that uproar, Madam Minister, against the military dictatorship remain current and unfulfilled, because over the years another dictatorship, that of capital, has continued. That is why, in our view, labour struggle must be intensified, the fight of youth to overthrow this barbarism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Moraite. The Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs now has the floor, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. First, PIS has been signed for the staff, laboratory and scientific staff of the TEIs as well as the universities. So it's not a commitment here or a promise. If from Monday there are problems with the operation, especially the Amphissa, but also at all the TEIs, you can come here and tell me. The second point. You say 'criminalized', 'you put 100 euros'. Who's this? Did we do it? I contacted the President of the Central Greek TEI to tell me why this was happening. You know very well that institutions have a self-interest. Did we do it? And he promised me that this would stop. It was no Ministry decision, because the Ministry can't make that kind of decision. Thirdly, and generally speaking, you are beginning to say, as always, 'the anti-grassroots measures of the SYRIZA Government' and all of this. Do you know that this whole U.S. universe would collapse if there wasn't a SYRIZA government? Do you know the reality of the TEIs? You know that for 15 years there have been divisions scattered in the middle of nowhere for electoral reasons and when the difficult ones have been merging again in the middle of nowhere, without any rationalisation, without any thought, without any thought, to close or merge or open other sections, etc.Huh? Do you know that many of the problems that exist are why do we have sections untied out of the center of the institution? Not only did we cut attention, but what we have tried to do in war conditions as we are - we have never said that these are normal conditions, Mr Moraite, we have never said that we accept these policies - is to salvage both public health and public education and not to merchandise anything. As far as the Amphissa outbreak is concerned, there is indeed no focus. There's the 1,000 euros that students can rent. For feedingstuffs there is and is covered the feeding of at least one hundred sixty students, students and students. Until now the students have not all gone because there has indeed been a problem with the functioning of the Amphissa departments. And I want to tell you specifically about Amphissa, because the way you present it is like we suddenly did something that was to underestimate, downgrade or close these sections. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] You know that the Central Greece TEI came from the merger of two TEIs, Lamia and Chalkidas, with a Presidential Decree of 2013. You know that two sections were created in Amphissa, one of which - not to read them to you now, I can leave them to you if you like - was foreseen to have ten permanent staff. Do you know how many people he actually had and actually? Zero people. And he had two administrative staff or one, if I'm not mistaken. I don't read it here so I don't take time. The other section of the Amphissa again, Mr Moraitis, had four permanent staff, two of whom were unpaid for two years and the other two remained. That was the situation, this situation we had to deal with, mergers in the middle of nowhere due to the Athens project, with all the things that have been done at the TEIs, and at some point they have to be discussed. And we are trying, at all costs, to keep these foundations, all the foundations open and in the way they should be in these times the hard things that we are going through and that we have not accepted. In conclusion - and I am sorry, Mr President - I should like to say that we are moving forward with the necessary legislation, because the institutions' budget is too low. We are therefore moving on to the necessary legislative arrangements so that senior institutions and presidents of HEIs can transfer funds from one account to another, which was not allowed up to now, to deal with the problems of higher institutions due to a cut in their budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, I would just like to say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u81	Yes, Mr. Moraite, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u82	Minister, you didn't tell us anything about the prosecutor's intervention on the terror that he's trying to pass on to the students. Answer that. Because there are lies that go to form charges, there are charges against students, which I cannot even mention what they include. Reply to the Attorney's intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u83	Answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u84	I'm totally against it. I'm learning it right now that you're telling me, and I'm surprised, because I had contacted the president of the TEI. The president of the TEI had promised me that this case would be terminated without a problem, that there would be no one with the 100 euros asking for an advance and that there would be no criminal prosecution. Now I'm learning. I'll be taken care of immediately. I can't tell you anything else, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u85	All the homes are asking for this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u86	No, they don't want it in all the homes. A hundred euros advance? I've learned about these homes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u87	If it's not 100, it's 80, 90 euros. Look at it. In Larissa...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u88	Tell me all the other homes, 'cause I found out about this place. We'll see, because I don't know about other homes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u89	Okay. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u90	I'm sorry, Mr. President. But be careful. Because I'm asking you, you know that these are the homes that belong to universities or the TEI and manage these outbreaks. Where it comes to our attention, as was the case with the TEI Central Greece, in particular for Chalkidas, we intervened immediately. Now, that's for criminalization, really, I didn't know and we're gonna do what we have to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u91	That's a very serious problem with the D.A. I hope we see it, Minister. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-11-16-S1-commons.u92	With the consent of the House at 20.06 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 17 November 2015 at 10.00 hours, on the subject of the proceedings of the House: a special plenary session dedicated to the day of remembrance and honor for the revolt of the University.
