ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 16-10-2015, its minutes of 16 October 2015 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, on Friday, 16 October 2015, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: "Measures for the implementation of the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement".]] Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the agenda, I have the honour to announce to this House: The Finance and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction Ministers tabled a draft law on 19-10-2015: ‘Preparation of the Convention for the Enforcement of the exclusive right to organise and conduct a reciprocal racing bet in Greece for a period of 20 years and other provisions’. This draft law has been characterised by the government as urgent. The Ministers of State, Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Finance, Infrastructure, Transport and Networks, and the Deputy Minister for Home and Administrative Reconstruction submitted a draft law on 19-10-2015: ‘Authorisation of terrestrial digital television broadcasting content providers - Establishment linked to ERT.A. anonymity company for the development of a digital terrestrial broadcasting network - Arrangement of themes of the National Telecommunications and Post Commission (E.T.T.) - National Communication Policy, Organisation of Communications Diplomacy - Establishment of the National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications and the Register of Electronic Media Enterprises - Amendment of Provisions N.4070/2012 (GBU A 1982/2012) and other provisions”. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. The Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Following the Convention on the Enforcement of the Exclusive Right to Organise and conduct a Mutual Racing Bet in Greece for a period of 20 years and other provisions". Also, I have the honour to announce: (a) The decision of the President of the Parliament of 19 October 2015 "Recommendation and establishment of the Special Standing Committee on Equipment and Conventions". (b) The decision of the President of the Parliament of 19 October 2015 ‘Recommendation and establishment of the Special Standing Committee for the Monitoring of the Social Security System’. (c) The decision of the President of the Parliament of 20 October 2015 "Recommendation and Establishment of the Special Standing Committee on European Affairs". The relevant decisions have been posted to Parliament Transparency and will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u2	I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Priminal Responsibility of the Ministers", as in force, on 19-10-2015, a criminal case for the former Deputy Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Christos Spirtzi. There are also some empty colleagues. We'll announce them on our way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle of the articles and the whole draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the Convention on the grant of the exclusive right to organise and hold a mutual bet on horse racing in Greece for a period of twenty years and other provisions". The above bill, in accordance with the decision taken by the Standing Committee on a proposal from the Minister responsible, is discussed in accordance with the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would like to remind you that, in accordance with this procedure, the debate is being concluded in principle and on the articles in a meeting. The rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and one of their representatives are involved in the debate. Their speech is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose - although it is not provided for in the Rules of Procedure - that four speakers from SYRIZA, two speakers from some from New Democracy, one speaker appointed by the Golden Dawn Association, one from the Democratic Alliance of Greece, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from Potami, one from the Independent Greeks and one speaker designated by the Central Association. I also propose that the debate on the principle and the articles should be uniform. With regard to speaking time, I suggest that the rapporteurs and special speakers have twelve minutes of speaking time, the competent Minister, 13 minutes, the Prime Minister and the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, and the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, fourteen minutes, the President of the other parliamentary groups, twelve minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives, ten minutes, the speakers appointed by the parties. Because, as I understand it, there is no information about the parties' leaders, obviously, I suppose there will be no speeches. This means that there will be a little tolerance for other speakers in relation to the time that I mentioned. Dentality is limited to half the time of protology. Finally, in accordance with Rule 109, the meeting shall be concluded within a maximum of 10 hours. First of all, is there an agreement on what you have heard?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u4	Good. We're moving on. He agrees with the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, may I have the floor, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Loverdo, let me finish this one minute and immediately afterwards. Do you want to talk about this? Let me not say that the House has agreed if there is any objection.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u7	There's no objection. After all, we have also expressed ourselves in the Standing Committee in a clear way, but we consider it necessary, as Democratic Reconciliation, to make a comment. If it is, we do it now or we do it afterwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u8	Immediately afterwards or in your speech, where I will give you extra time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u9	Not in my speech, now, with the tolerance of colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u10	Yeah, say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, you were present at the Conference of Presidents on Monday, when we accepted the proposal made by the President of Parliament - without criticism and without much criticism - to go into urgent procedure - so we also committed ourselves to the Standing Committee to doing the same - so that a legislative need for the government is met in order not to go beyond the limits laid down in the Constitution for the ratification of a legislative act. We discovered in the Standing Committee yesterday that there was no legislative act, Mr President. It is simply because of delays in the previous government because, as they tell us, the former President of the Parliament, there was a problem that had to be dealt with - ratification of a contract - within these days. We pointed out inconsistencies - others on Monday another Tuesday - but, as we always do this nine months in opposition, we said: 'Yes, the process should go ahead'. But it has not been clarified, Mr President, why the House must ratify. We concluded that Minister Chakalotos, who is not a legal person, said that he needs to be informed to tell us - but there was no reason why Parliament has a ratification deadline. We conclude, using our own legal tools. But the government has not clarified it. And there is a need for the Minister who will support the current government's legislative initiative to tell us why there is a need for Parliament to ratify. You'd say there's no need. Now every public contract is to be ratified by the House. It's not a law. We can't touch somewhere. We are not saying 'no' in the procedure, but we want this clarification to be made and we do not want this clarification to be ignored. Finally, Mr President, in the last few days many bodies who have seen us have been asking us to speed up their regulation of the matter, and when we tell them what the legislative procedure is, we are told 'Do a PPP. You suggested that a NSA be made. ” The legislative act has become a rule of law in this nine-month period. Because we are criticising - and we will be criticising - this is an open matter - I would like you, Mr President, to convey to the President of this House that we are asking, from January to today, that the government give us a list of the MIPs it has established. Because we find that matters much less important than the big agreements of the country or the prerequisites or the related matters have been regulated by an act of legislation and we ignore it. We want, therefore, to know the work of Parliament in the coming months, what an MGF has been issued on the government's side.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u12	Mr Loverdo, first of all everything you have said to me, of course, and I will also convey it, although I am sure the President can hear it. He may not be here, but he hears what you said. It's hard to see. I would like to believe that the President of this House had no information either. It did not make sense to the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u13	Obviously, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u14	Yes, let me clarify. He was obviously misinformed. It's self-evident. We'll wait for the Minister's answer. And, of course, I think that the issue of giving us the list, apart from transferring it to the next Conference of Presidents, can also be put to the vote. And I'm telling you that I, as Vice-President, will agree to have that list. The House therefore agreed. Because the Minister wants to hear the rapporteurs first and then speak before I give the floor to the first rapporteur of SYRIZA, Mr Anastasio Pratssol, I would like to inform you: Mr Placiotakis, on behalf of the New Democracy, announced that Mr Voutsi had been appointed a Parliamentary representative. Also, by letter, the Secretary of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group Mr Georgios Germenis announced that Mr Ilias Panayotaros and a special speaker Mr Georgios Germenis were appointed. On behalf of the Democratic Association, Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulou is designated by the Democratic Association with corresponding letters. On behalf of Mr Athanasios Pafilis, Mrs Diamanto Manolakos is appointed a special speaker. Mr Panagiotis Kartsoulis is appointed rapporteur, Mr Theocharis Theocharis Theocharis. Athanasios Papachristopoulos, on behalf of the Independent Greeks by letter, appointed Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u16	On what matter? Would you like to place yourself on the subject raised by Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u17	I would like to give an answer on the subject raised by Mr Loverdes and to present a legislative improvement in the first place so that there are no...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u18	Then I give you three minutes to have time for the legislature, which you will be tabling. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u19	On the subject raised by Mr Lovers, we will soon have an answer for that, as well as for other issues. I would like to table a legislative improvement. At the end of paragraph 7 of Article 2, a proposal is added to which the question concerning workers is resolved. I read it to you: ‘As for the remainder of 1/3 of the monthlyly paid leases which are less than the concession referred to in paragraph 7 of this Article, part or all of this may be transferred from the administration of the “PIOIO S.A.” to the employees of the “WIOIO S.A.” for the repayment of due labour requirements under the applicable Collective Labour Convention for the period up to the entry into force of the concession agreement.’ I think that the problem raised by the workers is also solved. [[At this point the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Treasury Alexiadis, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvement, which reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[Insert the page. 22]] PAGE OF PAGE
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u20	I would very much ask that this legislative improvement be distributed to colleagues. To be all those who follow ready, I announce that special speakers and rapporteurs are: Mr Anastasios Pratsolis from SYRIZA, Mr Christos Dimas from New Democracy, Mr George Germenis from the Golden Dawn, Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos from the Democratic Compact, Mrs Diamanto Manolakos from the KKE, Mr Theocharis Theocharis from Potami, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos from the Independent Greeks. Parliamentary Representatives are: Christos Mantas from SYRIZA, Mr.Ioannis Vroutis from New Democracy, Mr.Ilias Panagiotaros from the Golden Dawn, Mr. Andreas Loverdes from the Democratic Compact, Mr.Nicholas Karathanasopoulos from the KKE, Mr. Spyridon Dannelis from Potami and Mr. Athanasios Papachristopoulos from the Independent Greeks. I do not read the additional speakers, because I see that one of SYRIZA, a colleague from New Democracy and one of the Democratic Reconciliation has been given. The rest of the parties haven't given up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u21	Two from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u22	From SYRIZA, I see Mr. Diaras has been appointed. From New Democracy, in addition to Mrs Asmakopoulou, I see in the paper that has been given to me that Mr Makis has also been designated - it does not suit me, Maki, to say "Mavroudis" - Vorides. Mr Koutsoukos, as we have said, has been designated by the Democratic Alliance. Mr. Lazarides from the Independent Greeks. That's all at the moment. Where there are one, two gaps, they may not want to give another speaker, so we'll be done sooner. Mr Pranchol, you have the floor. Because we have time, I'm putting two more minutes to everyone, that is, fourteen minutes, with the wish and hope that you'll be in time and I won't have to ring a bell.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u23	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u24	Here you go, Mr. Pratsol.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this draft law ‘Standarding of the Convention on the Enforcement of the exclusive right to organise and conduct a reciprocal racing bet in Greece for a period of twenty years and other provisions’, which is now introduced to the plenary session for urgent vote, because if the contract is not completed and if the contract is not published in FEK until 24 October 2015, the OPAP has the right to withdraw, on the one hand, and the concession contract signed in Athens on 24 April 2015 between the IPTO and the company FEW and the company FEW on the exclusive right to organise and conduct a reciprocal racing bet in Greece for a period of twenty years, on the other hand, regulates the issues of the liquidation of the ‘GREEN’. At yesterday's meeting of the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs I listened very carefully to the position of all colleagues from all the parties and there is a general comment. On every subject discussed, the representatives of the parties of the New Democracy and PASOK are constantly referring to the failed negotiation of the seven-month government SYRIZA - ANEL. Why is that? In order to convince themselves on this issue, given that the Greek people on 20 September 2015 sent their message for the third time, a message of faith and confidence to the government, recognition of the great effort and real negotiation that has taken place for the first time and the approval of governance over the last forty years, a message that they neither want nor can, as it seems, receive and understand. I can say that some of the positions have surprised me, because I heard colleagues from the Opposition that I had the government abducted for the conditions of the concession contract signed between the GOI and the company "PROPROM S.A." I would like to remind you at this point that the auction was opened by the GOI on 1 March 2013 and the declaration of ‘OPAP Investment Ltd’, a selected investor, took place on 30 October 2014. At that time, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, the New Democracy and the PASOK were confronted. None of us, ladies and gentlemen, have come here from virginity, and of course we all have a past. And the Greek people on the basis of this past are placed and sent their own messages. Your inspiration, therefore, was to privatise the OIE and your creation, the concession agreement, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy, admitted at yesterday's committee meeting, since, as he said, the Samara government was working on the privatization of the OIE. And, of course, we must bear in mind that there are debts to workers of EUR 980,000. Debts relate to accrued redundancies resulting from the collective agreement, covering permanent or temporary ones, and special attention should be paid to this. As the Minister has already announced, there is an amendment to this effect. So why, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy - PASOK, did you not plan to restore these workers? Why in the concession you have drawn up, did you not take care to include a special clause guaranteeing the debts to workers who are engaged and who are overcapacity by absorbing them to other bodies? We, despite all the above failures or intentional omissions, are dealing with the issues of workers and, of course, we cannot accept that with our own actions, as the rapporteurs of counter-population, we are pushing unemployment workers when in her official report the GFCM says that over the period 2010-2014 four hundred and two thousand jobs have been lost, about half a million young unemployed. Doesn't that mean anything to you? Who was really ruling then? Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I would like to inform the Members of this House of what is being granted by this auction, but also of its procedure, as far as concessions are concerned. Article 13(7)(b) of Law No 4111/2013 may be awarded by means of an international auction to a special-purpose company, a concessionaire, recommended by the contractor: Firstly, the non-exclusive right to organise and export horse racing in Greece, in which, of course, the concessionaire must be guaranteed to conduct horse racing only in Greece. Secondly, the exclusive right to organise and carry out mutually in relation to the races conducted within the Greek territory, bets, lottery or not within and outside the horse racing area. Third, the exclusive right to take over activities related to racing bets at national and international level, including the organisation, conducting and exploiting of reciprocal bets for foreign horse racing or participating in the organisation, conducting and exploitation of foreign racing bets. Fourthly, the exclusive right to organise and conduct an additional mutual bet on horse races. Fifth, the exclusive right to organise and conduct reciprocal racing bets conducted online. As regards the procedure, an international bidding procedure was opened on 1 March 2013 by the GOI for the concession of the rights to conduct horse racing and the right to conduct a reciprocal horse racing bet. As you will read in the explanatory statement here, the invitation to tender was held in two stages: In the first phase the tenderers had the opportunity to express their interest in the tender, proving that they fulfilled the economic, technical and legal criteria set out in the call for expressions of interest. In the second phase, they were able to comment on the draft concession, gaining access to an electronic database. On 26 April 2013, two companies expressed an interest, ‘2PU’ and ‘INTRALOT S.A.’, where after verification of their data to determine whether they fulfilled the criteria, were invited to submit financial offers by 31 July 2014. The tender given by the ‘INTRALOT S.A.’ was deemed to be unsatisfactory both the first and the improved version. Therefore, the Board of Directors of the GOI proceeded to reopen the tender with a new call for tenders from 29-8-2014. New offers were submitted by INTRALOT S.A. and OPAP companies. Following the opening of the files, it was found that the OPAP offered a much higher price, about eight times the price. Thus, after having taken into account the assent of the Board of Experts, the Board of Directors of the GOI proceeded to award the tender to the OPCW. The contract was signed on 24 April 2015. The financial consideration of the contract shall be EUR 40,501,000 and the payment of the contract shall be as follows: at the date of signature 20% shall be paid, at the date of entry into force 30% shall be paid and the remaining 50% shall be paid on the first anniversary of the date of entry into force. Interest shall be paid together on any unpaid amount, calculated from the date of entry into force until the date of payment. The Greek State participates in revenues with a rate of 30% on the concessionaire's gross profit for each calendar month, part of which will be available for the maintenance and operation costs of the horse racing industry. In particular, 24% will be available for the payment of the prizes and live racing, 1.5% for the "Philippis Union" and 4.5% for the Greek State. It is also laid down that in the event of a deficit in the accounts held by the concessionaire for payment, he will be solely responsible for the payment of the sums. In the event of surplus in the abovementioned prize accounts, it may offset it with the deficits of previous years, and if a surplus occurs in more than two consecutive years, the excess amount shall also be paid to the Greek State. The concession agreement provides for the right to compensation for the Greek State in the event of a substantial infringement of concessions by the concessionaire and also for cases in which it is due from the Greek State to the concessionaire. Ladies and gentlemen, in this draft law on the clearance of the EPO, with a view to making better use of the property of the liquidated company in the interests of the public interest, and to satisfying the employees of the EPO, taking into account the objectives of the mutually accepted race betting. It is intended to protect the assets of the IORP from possible individual seizures, since the deposit of the bill and for seven years all acts or measures under the Code of Civil Procedure are suspended, but also to take any administrative measure under the Code of Administrative Procedure, which are accelerated or exercised by all kinds of lenders of the “WIPO S.A.”. Out of the proposed provisions of the bill, positive financial results are generated on the state budget, as we will have a total increase in revenue for 2015-2016 of EUR 40.5 million from the financial contribution. We will probably have an increase in revenue from the increase in the percentage attributed to the Greek State with a corresponding reduction in the 'Philippi Union' and a share of more than EUR 200 million of the total bet turnover. And I say 'possibly' because the 'Philippine Union' is a body of the general government. Thirdly, we will have to pay the Greek State any surplus of the prize account. Regardless of the economic benefits that will arise for the Greek State, which will contribute in part to the repayment of the public debt, an important sector, the horse racing industry, is to be developed to improve the conditions for this sport. At the same time, however, several new jobs will be created by conducting the horse races, given that the horse racing industry has a great deal of growth. Many benefits will arise for the local community as it will continue to be a pole of attraction for races at national level, thus strengthening the local economy and entrepreneurship. Paragraph 13 regulates the functioning of the Veterinary Clinic within the Olympic Cavalry Centre. In particular, it shall be specified that this clinical clinic shall be understood as legally authorised in accordance with the provisions of the legislation in force. It should be noted here that this is the only clinical of large animals operating within Attica and its operation is not limited to the needs of horse racing and horse racing, but provides services for large, in general, animals. This ensures that it operates smoothly, but also that a significant social project is carried out by the services provided. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by pointing out to you that for us, for the Left Government, in any form of concession or privatization resulting from the agreement, our only concern will be our firm position on the protection of workers and the social whole, because everything in life is not numbers but people, even in these difficult budgetary conditions that exist, can and must be at the heart of our policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. Until Dimas in Vima goes up, I would like to inform you that they have requested a few days' absence abroad - there are the corresponding letters to the President of Parliament - Mrs Bakoyannis from 20 to 22 October, Mr Koumoutsakos from 20 to 23 October, Mr Dousinas from 19 to 22 October, Mr Mitarakis - two requests - from 21 to 22 October and from 28 October to 1 November, Mr Besiropoulos from 23 to 25 October, Mr Arvanitides from 23 to 28 October 2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u27	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Mr. Dimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to start with you at first. You've had a concession contract ready for six months. This convention is currently being introduced for ratification by Parliament at six months' delay, as the deadlines have elapsed and you have adopted successive legislative acts. You don't call that responsible governance. I would like to begin with something else, however, with something that the Minister for Finance said yesterday in committee. The Minister referred to Augustine's writings. I will tell you that I, too, have an interest in the political theory and the philosophy of law. The Minister has even said that he does not want to sin. I would remind you that Augustine had written in the "Explanations" that to abstain from sin, when he no longer can sin, does not mean that he has abandoned sin, but that sin has abandoned him. I think that this phrase reflects not only your attitude, the attitude of the Ministry of Finance, but also the attitude of the Government in general. In just ten months of governance, but mainly two and a half years as a Civic Opposition - not to forget these years - you have sinned so much against Greek citizens, who now want to abstain from sin, you cannot. And since today we are talking about the privatization of the EMI, I would remind you that this is one of SYRIZA's sins. Let's go back a year, you know, when we had economic growth, fewer taxes, and of course we didn't have any funds, we didn't have the great capital controls. It was the time when SYRIZA had a plan for the economy, the famous «Thessaloniki program». And that was a sin, by the way. I will, however, stay on the subject of today's debate, in the privatization of the EMI. It was a time when the SYRIZA MPs, including Mrs Gerovas - are not here now - of the Government Representative were asking a question about the DPO, in which they were talking about selling and claiming that they should not come into the hands of individuals and lose public revenues. I'm really wondering if he has the same views today. I put the question for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, I am not so much referring to the content of the SYRIZA Members' question as to the fact that in recent years SYRIZA has been haunting Greek citizens. You said you'd abolish the ENPY. You did exactly the opposite. You said you'd cut taxes. You did exactly the opposite. You said you'd restore salaries and pensions. You did exactly the opposite. You said you'd bring economic growth. You did exactly the opposite. You said you would reduce unemployment. You did exactly the opposite. You said you wouldn't bring any new measures. You did exactly the opposite. You said you'd find the equivalent. Of course you didn't find the equivalent. These are no longer election promises. They are the ‘seven death-sented sins’. No one now doubts that the situation in the national economy was much better in November 2014 than it is today. The privatization of the OLAF is a small but characteristic example of the impasse policy of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. You missed deadlines. You have proceeded with lengthy extensions of time by misusing legislative acts - in our view completely unjustified - and the whole process of privatization is at risk of being shaken down in the air. Along with the government, however, it is wasting time and the country is costing citizens and the national economy dear. The government until first was a sworn enemy of the militia. In recent months he obsessedly refused to move any of them forward. You were not interested in the fact that privatization could be a way out for an incomplete TECE, which might put it, and would bring revenue not only for the State but also create new jobs, that is to say, to benefit the economy and the local and national. You have wasted time again, but you realised that the public interest is not contrary to the privatizations, but that there are several times that there must be privatizations. And today, in the first demilitarisation of the left-wing government, this seems a little - fortunately - to recognise it. Nevertheless, you are rather incomprehensible in terms of the sizes of the democracies. In the revenues of the ordinary budget, according to its preliminary draft, for this year you estimate that you will receive about EUR 2 billion. However, it comes in a recent statement to the "REUTERS" agency, the president of the TIAD, Mr Pitsorlas disproves you, stressing that the objective set will not be achieved. I also make Mr Pitsirla's statement in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Dimas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Who should we believe, Minister? Believe the preliminary draft budget signed by your chief or president of the HIAD on the revenues of the demilitarisation this year? It would therefore be extremely interesting for the government to tell us how, if we get to that amount. Apart from regional airports and, of course, the ILO, what else do you promote for privatisation? I asked the Minister yesterday, but he gave us a very general answer. It should be noted here that the revenue from the privatizations, including that of the PLO, is intended for public debt. This is what the Prime Minister himself agreed on in July in the agreement with the lenders. Of course, this agreement also provides for the creation of a fund for the exploitation of public property, so that all privatization revenues are directed towards public debt alone, but some also go to investment in the country. You can tell us what revenues of possible privatisation - now of course the Minister is talking on the phone -...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u29	He might ask about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u30	That's right, he might ask. Minister, speaking on the phone in the House is unprecedented!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u31	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u32	He may have taken St. Augustine, Mr. Balaura, indeed! I would, however, be very interested to know which privatisations will go ahead, what revenues will be paid for the public debt and what revenues will be paid for the investments. Once again, yesterday, we only received general answers. We therefore expect the Minister to answer these questions. SYRIZA, as an official opposition, may not have voted for a single bill in the House when it was the government of New Democracy. However, today you are bringing to Parliament the privatization of the ODR for which, yes, SYRIZA's rapporteur, the former government, the New Democracy government, has worked very effectively. Let me remind you that the concession you are bringing is exactly the same as the one you denounced in the past. You are currently supporting the ratification of the granting of the exclusive right to organise and conduct a reciprocal racing bet in Greece for a 20-year period. In other words, the concession agreement between the GOI and the company "HOPROGRAMS S.A.", which is a subsidiary of the OPAP, is valid. In your vote, ladies and gentlemen, not only do you contribute to a necessary democratization, but you continue the liberal policy of the governments of the New Democracy for a lesser state. Parenthood, not to forget, of course, we have reduced taxes, you are overtaxing Greek citizens and Greek businesses. Besides, well-designed and targeted militarisations give international investors the slogan that the Greek economy has dynamic and opportunities with which one deserves to deal with a mutual benefit. Today, it is mainly the private economy that can guarantee the creation of new jobs and sustainable growth rates. Among other things, that is what liberal economic thought supports. And of course, we welcome anyone who perceives, even somewhat late or twisted, the benefits that he is gaining. It may have taken you plenty of time and cost the Greek economy very expensive, but finally I see that you too recognize that the state can no longer make the businessman. However, the privatization of the EDP is generally moving - because there are some problematic points in Article 2 - in a proper direction. The first steps for its completion were taken in 2013 on the New Democracy Government, under Law 4111, where an open tender was provided for the granting of specific rights, such as the non-exclusive right to organise and conduct horse races in Greece, the exclusive right to bets and lottery tickets for horse racing, the exclusive right to take activities for horse racing and online betting. In particular, the State expects a nominal amount of EUR 90 million. Of these, the 40.5 million will come from the assignment of the licence and the remaining 50 million from the rental contract for the horse race in Marcoupoulos Attica, as the concession contract provides for a monthly rental of EUR 210.833. I also note that public participation results from 30% of the concessionaire's gross profit for each calendar month, with the report of the State Accounting Office estimated that the revenues from Greek and foreign races, which will be conducted, are expected to be around EUR 200 million. The rate of revenue for the public as such is, first, 4.5%. That's all about the general picture. In the case of Article 2 in particular, however, we find some problems. In particular, in the individual paragraphs, the provision for a general suspension of enforcement during the liquidation of the property for seven years, although it is not initially contrary to a constitutional rule, is disproportionate to the objective of such a period of delay. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection also underlines this. Similarly, as far as the ban on divestment is concerned, there is a possible issue of discrimination of powers. This is also true for the provision contained in Article 2, that the IMI may but shall not be required to agree to an assignment of up to 2/3 and not to all monthly leases to creditors who have forced the seizure. And, of course, as has already been mentioned in the Committee on Finance by the New Democracy MPs in the Attica Region, the debts of the FDI in the Municipality of Markopoulos should be repaid or examined for the granting of a small part to the region so that the municipality can develop public-interest structures. There is also a decision of the administrative court. For Article 2, we have tabled an amendment, Mr Minister. If it is accepted, we shall also be voting in favour of Article 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Dimas. Mr. George Germenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u34	You, gentlemen of the New Democracy, rather than applauding the fact that SYRIZA is now moving on to privatization, are blaming them because they have been delayed seven months to bring this sanction. And of course, we should ask ourselves in the five years of the memorandum, during your own governance, where the DPO arrived, the horse racing, which went bankrupt. Because in simple numbers - a little bit of the Internet - we searched the revenue budget for the years 2004-2014, the agency was profitable and I will speak to you in particular. Revenue for the OAU amounted to EUR 3,9 million in 2004, in 2005 to EUR 3,8 million, in 2006 to EUR 4 million, in 2007 to EUR 3,3 million, in 2008 to EUR 2,1 million, in 2009 to EUR 5,4 million. And if you want to say and listen to this House in 2010 - listen well, gentlemen - we have reached EUR 31,15 in favour of the public! So in 2009 we had 5 million profits, and in 2010, when we entered the memorandum, we reached 34 euros? So this is the forceful opposition that the New Democracy has to make and let it say that it has been delayed seven months and what the reason for the contract has been delayed. Let us see what has happened over the last five years that the OAU has changed four administrations: the arrest of the government's CEO for public debts of 84 million. Did every government that took over and every council that took over against the other government carry out an audit of the four administrations they took over? Which governments was it then? Wasn't New Democracy and PASOK? Do you wonder? Man in particular, not to say names here. It is not in the committee that took place the day before yesterday, nor in the House to find out where the 84 million went. They were your people, weren't they? What kind of political identity do these people have? And we arrive at the SYRIZA - ANEL government. The people who said that for any privatization, when it comes to things, it will do it in the state again. And today we reach the first official deprivation and raise your hands up. We don't have anything to say about it, we're out of our minds. I mean, you're asking us to validate the race races. You yourself who, a few months ago, would have smashed memos and anything that had been illegally in the private sector with the TIAD, would have done so again in public, now you yourself are asking us to come here today and vote under the urgency procedure. What was the emergency? It was April 24th. You had in May, June, July, August. Whenever you wanted and whatever time you wanted, you brought it to the House. Of course, you had your internal problems at the time. You first looked to cut off the harmful part of your party that would vote 'no' and now it is time that you are on your own, with the people who vote 'yes', to bring the contract. That's the reality. However, from there on, as many groups have said in committee and they have heard today in the Chamber, you are bringing us to ratify the convention. Here, Members are to ratify, to say 'yes' or 'no' to a contract for which none of us even know what was said in these dark offices with the painted and mysterious buyers? What was said? What happened in there? What was the contract? Here, is this House to ratify? That's right, Mr. Loverdos. Are we here to dominate this thing, take a responsibility on us for 'yes' or 'no'? If that's possible! Let us now talk about the substance of the contract, which we said until 2009 was profitable. What are we doing? The constant tactics of the multinationals and the people of neoliberal thought is, when we have a "filet" that makes a lot of money, to bring it into such a situation that the state cannot stand to sustain it and sell it for a piece of bread. In fact, it seems to us that the competition was two companies. One was the 'INTRALOT' that proposed EUR 5 million and the other was - it says - the OPAP which proposed EUR 40 million. What's going on? One suggests EUR 5 million and the other EUR 40 million? Why is he doing this? Because they're good people? There's something important here. We said the OPAP is taking HOPS S.A. and we are going for a monopoly. In other words, the business bet will be a monopoly, again from a particular family that decides and will do whatever it wants. So where is the free market? In monopolies we're turning again. Of course, it reminds us of the oldest scandals, such as that of the Agricultural Bank. The new buyer will get the healthy part. As for the rest of the harmful part of the OIE - because we recall that it is a debt of many millions of euros to the Municipality of Markopoulou, it only reaches 31 million euros to the municipality - the new body that will buy it has nothing to do with it. This debt will be recharged by the Greek taxpayer on his back. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] Of course, we have to see that, within this liquidation, the revenues of the OIE from the rental of the horse race in Markopoulos amount to EUR 210,000 per year. Really, will the new company be able to meet these obligations? Of course, if we're just thinking about the revenues and expenses that the company has had over the last three years, we're very doubtful if it'll get money back from this body as well. Of course, you are not covering us, Minister, with this legislative improvement in terms of the thirty-forty-forty employees that they will be paid for. Of course, you have to pay the prizes. So that's what we're talking about? Are we talking about the thirty - forty employees who are permanent and professional? It is not a question of that, that is to say whether they will be paid for. The question is whether the new company will continue to have them at work. They're professional people and beyond this thing they don't know how to do anything else. Do we have any other races here to pick them up? You're not covering us! Of course, there are another three hundred - four hundred employees who were daily - saying - a contract, that is, every day their contract was renewed. New trick and that! We didn't really know those things. Yesterday we heard that in committee. So we're talking about Bananas situations! Daily contract in a European Western state? Also, all the rest there, for example, tours, the people who gave up their tangles for the races, what about them? We are talking about a lot of people, that is, many hundreds of thousands of people working around the horse races. It's not just those thirty - forty. SYRIZA's rapporteur told us that the bill is being secured within it. It's not guaranteed from anywhere. It does not refer to the bill at all, and it could be something that the House will ratify today. It could have been on an asterisk for the employees who have been working so long on horse racing that the new body must take them back. It was very simple for you to do that thing. In fact, it's about a million-dollars. Of course, the Minister Tsakalotos, orally said: “We will see what we can do. The OPAP has shown a good example so long and we believe that it will now continue to respect such commitments." Objection, of course! We are - we are making this clear - against such privatizations. We do not think that such privatizations will help the Greek state or the Greek people. Specific interests once again will be helped. The people will be drowned in their misery again. Today, only since the morning, the system has fallen. The first hour he had over six thousand people. And I don't know how many of these six thousand were the infarctions that the world suffered. So we cannot plead for such a sanction and say 'no'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Germenis. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor on behalf of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is it responsible for the ministers having in their drawers a bill of six months and for bringing it to the 'no more than one' in the House for a vote? This contract should have brought it to the House much earlier and not wait until the deadline expires to put the knife on the Members' neck. You cannot put the House before final events. It cannot work in this suffocating context, because you did not have the political will and the determination to proceed to the arrangements when you should. In the summer you submitted the bill again. His conversation, however, did not go any further. Perhaps some of your party then did not want to link their name to the first left-wing militarisation. You said: “We will come back. We will reintroduce democratic processes to Parliament." Are these democratic processes? Ladies and gentlemen, we are forced to ratify the convention in a debate, because otherwise the concessionaire is given the opportunity to withdraw without any impact, of course by returning the amount of EUR 8 million. The conclusions, then, are yours. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind the current Members that a whole year has been lost. You said that you would abolish the memorandum, that you would delete the debt. You said you would bring back the wages of EUR 751, that you would give the 15th pension, that you would not even make an unfair horizontal cut. Today, you have reached the lowest pension at EUR 396 - I would remind you - with the signature of Paul Haikalis. For wages, not a word. You said you were going to abolish HISBIA. On Friday, however, you have legislated for his stay, and in fact, without any favourable regulation. Finally, it was all words, hollow words! Ladies and gentlemen, the first laws of the government have to do either with a settlement of delays or with new regulations abolishing what you have brought. These are examples of writing of a government without consciousness of what is happening in the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law has been declared urgent because of the frugality of the government. It concerns the ratification of the Convention on the Enforcement of the exclusive right to organise and conduct a mutual bet on horse races in Greece and, at the same time, regulates the issues of the liquidation of the "WIPO S.A.". The State General Accounting Report provides for revenues amounting to EUR 40,5 million for the State in the period from 2015 to 2016. Of these, 20% will be paid on the date of signature, 30% on the date of entry into force, i.e. in a few days and the remaining 50% on the first anniversary from the date of entry into force, i.e. in October 2016. So this is a contract that will have a 20-year duration. There are, however, important issues to which the government has to respond today. Firstly, why did you let the debts of the IPO be raised so long as to third parties? Secondly, what will be done with debts owed by the ODP to workers? Thirdly, what about the workers themselves? You have spoken about transfers of workers to other bodies and the absorption of some from the OPCW. We therefore expect these commitments to be implemented. Fourthly, will all the employees of the ILO, who exceed four hundred, be absorbed, or will workers be found in insecurity and unemployment in the economic crisis and war and in the difficult circumstances in our country? However, let us not forget that there is a grid of working relationships in the OHIM, such as the equine units where the horses are reared, the merchants working with the OHIM for cavalry equipment, and here I wonder: does the government have an integrated plan not to produce any more unemployed, so as not to push other businesses into 'lukelet' or all that you had in mind, as Mr Lovers said, was how to draft legislative acts? And this to give an extension after the other? It's no use. And finally, at the last minute, you have to bring us a ratification contract and, indeed, an urgent procedure. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, we are full of words. That's enough! It's the time of actions and the truth, but as it turns out, you have a bad relationship with the truth. We also saw it in VAT in private education. One month we play the courgette, when 23%, when 13%, when 6%. For other things, the Prime Minister has committed himself within the House, but it has finally brought us. I hope you really understand the deadlock you have chosen before it is too late for the country. Besides, whenever you leave the path of damage, it is beneficial. So in the draft legislation, we talked about it yesterday in Article 2. We have serious objections to what is written and referred to in paragraph 2. Seven years of suspension of prosecutions against the FIFG by creditors is too much. This is also noted by the Scientific Service of the House in its report. That time could be shortened. I mentioned yesterday the case of the Municipality of Markopoulos, for which there is a final decision by the Trimela Administrative Court of Athens for 31 million euros at the expense of the IMI. This amount of interest amounts to 62,000,000 euros. We've all been informed by the city authority already. In this provision, the requirements of the municipality are at risk. The municipality asks for 3% of the area to be attributed to it for building a school unit. What one is wondering about is why there has been no consultation with the municipality so far. And why don't you even do that now, which is both progressive and left? Why don't you do what the municipality asks, that is, a thousand hundred acres, give him 3%, or about fifty acres, to solve the problem of the school roof in the region? After all, this is a area which will be directly allocated to the citizens. In addition, paragraph 7 of that Article provides for the possibility of selling rents to those who have already imposed a forced confiscation. This regulation obviously aims to satisfy the ‘INTRALOT’, which has already imposed a confiscation on a debt of several million euros. If the arrangement remains as it stands, the municipality enters second, i.e. in relation to the other creditors of the IPO. Are you going to do something about this? Of course, a solution would be the privileged classification of OTAs. We don't see it. It could be part of the leased rents that would be directed towards the repayment of these debts. Because otherwise you put the OTAs on new adventures and new losses. Do not forget that both OTAs are public and the public interest requires a solution to be found. Also, what about the demands of the workers? Will they wait just and patiently seven years, in the seven years of liquidation? That is a question that needs an immediate answer. The debt of the Occupied Territories amounts to EUR 980,000. In fact, there are people who are due to a small amount of EUR 1,000. Here, therefore, some of the leased rents referred to in paragraph 7 could be used to repay workers. And indeed, we have seen the legislative improvement you have tabled. This is where you agree. Minister, you are turning this House into a mere observer. We are therefore totally opposed to that. We are prepared to ratify the convention by law, i.e. 'yes' or 'no'. However, you are well aware that, in the form of an emergency, there is no possibility of better change. We're hitting the alarm bell on you. This is not responsible for governing the country. It is time, then, for you to assume your responsibilities. We are here to resist policies that do not bring growth to the country and do not guarantee a better tomorrow for the citizens. We as a opposition have proved our responsible attitude. We are here for a fruitful and constructive opposition, to support the decisions that serve the good of citizens and their homeland. That's why we vote for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Constantopoulos. Mrs Diamanto Manolakou has the floor on the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. The privatization bar has begun. The'red lines' go. They're gone! In the past, words of the air! Of course, the process is much faster than 'fast track', without much talk and discussions, and let them concern the work of many people and their own survival. In addition, the privatisations of state-owned property are and give way to the accumulation of pluralism's capital and at the same time ensure new profitability. Because it is not only the lowest selling price to the concessionaire - almost free of charge - but also the terrible employment relationships, with an almost antidote fee at work. The profitability conditions are therefore ensured by the greater exploitation of labour. The laws of capitalist profitability in all its majesty! And do not make fun of the fact that it will contribute to the repayment of the public debt, since the exorbitant amount of its construction through the Olympic projects saved the people and enriched the great builders and big-workers, while the loans will continue to be paid by the state budget, i.e. by the people. The truth is that the FDI is a great "file" and already there is a co-operation of local and foreign capital to expand gambling business in this area, as if these were the needs of the people. That is why there have also been intense competitions of business groups about who will acquire it and continue with statements of claim. For many years the ODR has been a source of funding for many activities. Sports, culture, etc. They crushed him, plundered him directly and indirectly, grabbed hot money, fueled all sorts of rumbles, however, by applying medieval labour relationships of real slavery, with one-day contracts, with no rights, allowances and licences, and of course not even unemployment benefits in the event of redundancies. But what are we talking about? They had a one-day contract! For years now they systematically launched his credit to facilitate his sale, to give this huge fortune to powerful funds, to full plunder and to exploit for private gains. That's how capitalism and the urban state work with every state property. It has it, even when it is in the ownership of the State, in the service and in the service of the profitability of the capital. For workers, however, hunger wages and austerity without end! Of course, the people, the working class, the popular layers and the country need work and productive growth rather than gambling and betting. And it is funny to write in the explanatory statement, page 3, that this will develop an important sector. A little more and you'll put him in school books. Not to mention VAT in schools, in foreign languages, that is to say, what public education does not provide and the parent tries to make up for his basic needs. However, this Convention sets out a number of details between the GOI and the concessionaire, which have been equitable characterised by many as a whole, but nothing refers to those who work in this area. We have been talking about the hundreds of workers working for decades - and some over thirty years - with a one-day contract, with a battered fee, with a loss of allowances, with insecurity and with serious consequences and with their retirement, since workers on the horse race took at least forty-five years for the minimum contract in IKA. Although many members of the current government from the position of the then opposition had denounced in the past and had asked questions about this unacceptable employment regime and were committed to abolishing it when they become a government, they are now privatising the OLAF. Leave the contracted, permanent and fired to rest. Your promises were socks and tangible proof is the O.D.I.E.L.D. And because Minister Chakalotos told us yesterday that the OPAP is already working, I would like to say that we asked them - and we asked them today - and they told us that it was not the case. As much as you're trying to sweeten the cruelty and cruelty of your policy, barbarism is not hiding. In fact, some four hundred employees of the OIE are ‘in the air’. And may last May the government passed a legislative regulation in the form of an amendment to the Ministry of Education bill: 'Granging measures to deal with violence in sport and other provisions', however, it had no concern for the hundreds of 50s who did not have recourse to the courts or the dismissals. But those who had appealed to the courts - and some have already been vindicated, by the court of appeal, which I am presenting in the minutes for your information, if you do not know it - are still chasing them. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolaku, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of Parliament.]] Why? Because the administration of the IPO has applied for appeals, seeking legal action in the Marios Ice, with clear arguments against the workers who have won their right through a final judicial decision. I am presenting in the Minutes and the request of the IGC administration against workers and denounce it as a burdensome act. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Diamanto Manolakou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] You're chasing the workers until you melt their right to work. It's embarrassing and disgraceful! There should be an official response from the government, not to act as Pontius Pilate nor to disguise the interest that in general and indefinitely the new "boss" on the hippodrome will take some. This had to be guaranteed through the contract. But you do not reserve the right of the worker but only the interests of the employer, and then you get misunderstood, when they call you 'Government of the Employer'. The Communist Party of Greece will insist on restoring all workers, inclusive and exceptions. They've had enough of the lousy one day contract hostage, according to Jun law 598/68. In fact, many of them are over fifty years old and it is a question of whether they will be able to regain jobs. We have therefore tabled an amendment amending paragraph 1 of Article 16 of the Treaty. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 4326/2015. However, the concession agreement for the horse race bet between TSED and the public limited company "FIRDS S.A." for the next twenty years, instead of the sum of 40.5 million, is the first privatisation completed by SYRIZA - ANEL, in the context of the unpopular commitments that you make quickly. Of course you also have the support of the other urban parties - New Democracy, PASOK, Potami - who together voted for the third memorandum. They even welcomed you to the constellation of privatizations, so as not to be ashamed of the disappearance of your red lines. We hope that by the end of the day, until the vote, you will not bring any new storm amendment after the morning meeting with the quartet and their demands. I say it because you get used to it by surprise. But that is the case, after you have left all the anti-grassroots, anti-grassroots framework that has been formed in previous years by New Democracy and PASOK, because that is a precondition for the investment of major business groups and the recovery of their profits. You are now coming to take even worse measures while implementing the privatisations you are baptizing 'developmental'. Of course, we are not saying what you were saying when you were opposition a year ago, but instead of improving conditions, we are actually getting worse. And yet the "fillet" is about not only the profits of the rider's bet but also the properties, such as thirty-three thousand square meters of surface, a thousand meters of land with forecasts of use, particularly attractive and a change in the status of the land, which allows casinos, hotels, golf, shopping centers, i.e. profitable businesses, and let the Municipality of Markopoulos claim a concession of fifty acres to make schools. This is support for private entrepreneurs, clearly. That's why you have them to pay for by the people. And if anything else were to happen, you wouldn't do it, because it runs counter to the capitalist recovery. We call on colleagues to vote for the amendment by the Communist Party of Greece, which gives some relief for those who worked on the race and is now in unemployment and insecurity. With regard to what the Minister has announced on the grounds of this and must be given priority in 1/3- to say that it concerns only the permanent, that is, the one you owe, etc. - we have not received any response to what is going to happen with the workers of the Convention, even to those who had a decision on the IAS and were covered by the May amendment. You haven't made any progress. We also transfer the anguish of archaeologists as to whether the archaeological findings on the site will be protected under the agreement. What about them? Will the private manage these too? As far as the veterinary clinic is concerned, one of the best in the Balkans, and there the conventions on veterinary surgeons are one day old. We ask that it stay in the public sector and meet wider needs and not go to the private sector. We also ask for the 50 acres to be awarded to the Municipality of Markopoulos for school buildings and for the fees due from municipal fees. We have not received any answers to the questions we have put to the committee. I hope it happens today. Is the estimate correct that depreciation will take place in less than two years, when construction costs were hundreds of millions? And it is said, in fact, that it was not even a receipt procedure. It is also said that before the crisis horse racing revenues amounted to three hundred million or eight and a half million a week, showing favor to the entrepreneur. The Communist Party of Greece is voting against the bill and its articles. It may be argued by the Government that the management exercised by the former was unsuccessful, but it is an excuse to conceal that its own policy is a faithful follow-up. The reversals he adds to work, insurance, privatisations and others actually make a leap in people’s lives, with measures serving capital. The answer must be clear and be heard loudly, on the occasion of and tomorrow's rally, on Thursday afternoon, in fifty cities across Greece and also on the Noemvé strike. No tolerance to overturn these measures and this barbaric policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you are moving on to your Memorandum of Understanding with your first privatisation. Welcome! Congratulations! How distant the recent past is when you had submitted the contract and the President of the Parliament was not planning it for a debate in this House. That's what the former President of Parliament did to you! And you, in a sign of firmness and leadership and determination, have left it in place and have proclaimed elections. Let it be! We didn't cost that much of your indecisiveness. Only 13.5 million. The OAU costs a month 1.5 million and these nine months of delay cost the Greek people 13.5 million. Five hundred, you'll tell me. Five-tenths of the FDI, five-pointed in VAT on private education, says Mr. Philis. And to have a good explanation on the subject of VAT in private education, did you ask the government's amateurs responsible services of the Ministry of Finance about the proposal of 13% and 6% in education? Because the proposal is not allowed by the Community VAT directive. So Community legislation does not allow this proposal. In training, you put 23% VAT or zero. Not 13% and 6%. So it is not the quartet or the troika that will ban you from this proposal. Community law will forbid you. And you go around it as serious. When you are rejected, will you tell us that it was rejected by the "quartetets" or that you will tell us "we have not done an elementary check, apologies, mistakes"? You're the world's first amateur government. The first! Only you're not lovers of any art. You guys are lovers of power. You live for her, and for her you have forgotten about your ideology. "Everyones" you're, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u41	We won't allow you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u42	In this context, for example, you have forgotten what Mrs Olga Gerovasil and Mr Panzas said about the OAU in the question of 17 September 2014. You forgot about the sale, you forgot about the public fillet, you forgot that you were going to ask the workers, and you would do what they would have told you. Is that what this is about? You asked the workers? Because I don't think that's what happened. You are first bringing us a contract that we do not have to ratify. You don't have to ratify this contract. We disagree with much that is in the convention and we do not want to ratify it. Why, for example, is there a 20% deposit, 30% deposit with start-up and 50% one year later? Why were these conditions made known after the tender - why were they made known - by signing the contract? Why do these payments have no VAT? Why do you relieve the citizen of VAT, Mr. Manda?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u43	What about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u44	You, Mr. Mada. We'll answer them. Mr. Tsakalotos told us yesterday about Stournara. We'll say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u45	He doesn't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u46	You are dominating a contract of 40 million - it has been mentioned - instead of 5 million, because a monopoly is being created, because the OPCW pays eight times more, so that it will not leave any'second dog' in its yard. He wants it in this yard to be just him. You're telling us that with the contract we'll have jobs around the horses and a small industry will work and bloom. This will be done because in the contract awarding the Greek State, it grants the Greek but also the foreign racing bet but there is a minimum number of horse races in Greece. So we force the concessionaire to do races in our country. This is how this small industry is guaranteed. However, INTRALT S.A. already has insurance measures for the LAG building. Does these insurance measures actually cancel the possibility of horse racing in our country? You also have exceptions to the minimum Greek races. For the first two years there is no minimum number. This will lead to the greek horses being swept away and perhaps they are not written enough in the Philippian Union. If, in turn, they fall under the three hundred horses in Philippi, there will be no minimum number of Greek horse races after the two years. If the horses are less than three hundred years in a row, then the contributor is completely relieved of the obligation to make few horse races in Greece. And with the exception of number VII you recognize the insurance measures and allow them not to be races unless they have access to Markopoulos in the field of horse races the concessionaire. Also, the money is distributed as follows: 60% for bet players, 10% for company profits, 1.5% in Philippian Union, 4.5% in public alone - a small amount in relation to international standards - and 24% in prizes. From the last amount the company is allowed to give 2/3 as a commission to foreign agents, if it joins the bet, as it will definitely do, foreign struggles. For the company, that is, two-thirds of 24%. 16% may pay a commission abroad. Not even in the country. He's going out. From this pigeon, the company can get a interest-free loan as a working capital from the government. I find us some hobbles! So why should we ratify an agreement that we would like to have been better than what we see? However, we would not like the possibility of horse races being permanently closed in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, you are bringing us here unnecessarily, since the convention would arrive as such, even with the signature of the Minister of Finance, as he said yesterday in my colleague in the New Democracy committee. You have brought seven extensions to this contract and we have finally paid 13.5 million more, with two PPAs that you have never ratified, doing what you have been accusing the previous governments of the past. You're a little concerned about it. We are told by the Minister, Mr Chakalotos - and Mr Mandas tells us now - that we should ask Mr Stournara, on whose ombudsman the contest was made. However, as I have shown you, the conditions for payment were known by signing the contract in SYRIZA. In any case, you signed three months after you came and had the time to change some things in the contract. You didn't look at them then. You were negotiating and signing what you were being brought. I'm sure you won't give up on us because you're the ones who did a miserable delivery and receipt to the Treasury. Your predecessor is required to ask him, to learn and to change what you have to change. You won't tell us to look for Mr. Stournara. You know where he works, I think, you can take him to the three digits and get up to date. So we believe, in order to be clear, that, as you have covered the workers - and it is good - you must also cover the Marcopoulou Municipality, and that is why we will not vote on Article 2 if you do not cover it with the New Democracy amendment or otherwise - if you have a better way, Mr President - and the Marcopoulou Municipality for the money that the FDI owes to him. Otherwise, we'll vote for the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing a government which makes a policy that says it does not believe it. It makes a right-wing policy while it tells us it's left-wing. We see a government that hits the argument while taking it with him on foreign travel - because it is not random businessmen who follow the Prime Minister and follow the previous Prime Minister - who cares for retired people as long as they cut them off yesterday, CSCE today and tomorrow, who close the banks, why your voters don't have any money there - what do you care about, let them shut down - that you put VAT on education, because 'no votes will be lost by those who send their children to the private or in the school', who exterminate the middle class, because they are not voting you - the only ones who care about you are Keracini and Drapetsonas. Do you have time for Keratsini when you don't talk to investors in America? That's good again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u47	Is the law's purpose is Keratsini?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u48	I talked about the subject and I'm talking. You are shouting for the corrupt, the corrupt, but the balances of Mr Flabourari's company - I'm sorry, Mr. Flabourari's former company - show cash in the funds over a million years from 2011 onwards. Interestingly, we only have 75,000 cash in 2010. What makes it all that cash? I'm presenting the company's balance sheets in the minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What's the company doing all that cash? 'Black' funds refer to these on the streets, ladies and gentlemen. "Black" funds. So leave morals, because arrogance will quickly lead to destruction, as has led so many others before you. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday Mr Tsakalotos told us that the impact of the measures and their effectiveness will be assessed. It will be valued, to see if this program really does what it says. Don't do it. You'll pay for money for it. There is no policy that you have implemented or will implement that has or will work out. The Greek people are asking for effort, honesty and results. I'm afraid you have only one left and soon none of them left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Mr Theochari. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I was brief in the committee too. I'll be there today. The reason is simple. It is a contract that has come and must be ratified by the House. There's no way it won't be validated. It has been negotiated by the previous government. It came to this government in April and was signed within the framework of the will of this government to rationalise, control and bring - if you want - a cleanliness at first hand on the race bet, which has been demonstrated by the last checks of known companies in Greece on black money which has been moving over the past twenty-five years in Greece, and in particular in the last ten five against coronary bets, both the horse race, the electronics and the electronic horse race. He had to get in a class. This class entered with the privatization and the right to the concessionaire for the exploitation of the racing bet, as emerged from the n. 4111/25-1-2013. As I did in committee, I will recall that this law - I will leave its introduction and the entire body - in Article 48 validates English law, the PSI loans of PASOK that came in 2011 and after 2012 with the FEK 240 in December. It is good to remember in what law the PASOK and New Democracy government brought into an article and the issue of betting. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned law, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as this convention is concerned, I would like to say this: there are some issues that all my fellow Members in this House have recognised, all the rapporteurs. Some have been corrected and we thank the Minister for the corrections he has made today and the amendments. However, I have two or three questions to ask. The first question concerns Article 10, where paragraph 1 speaks of 20% of the financial consideration that has been deposited in the account by means of a guarantee. Question: Has it been tabled? Yes or no? Secondly, the guarantee must be repaid by 20%. Was there a warranty lodged? Yes or no? We would like to have it in the House, in the Minutes, to know what has happened. To know if he had entered a guarantee, which bank was, what amount was, and anything. This is a public text and we need to know - because on the basis of the guarantee, the tender has been guaranteed - and if 20% of the consideration has entered and the guarantee has been returned. This is on page 84 of the contract for anyone who wants to see it. I won't give anything. It's in the texts we've taken. Paragraph 10.5, as I said in my introduction to the committee, which deals with surpluses, is a little curious: financial and administrative to one company. The use of surpluses is specific. Mr Theocharis has said now about the surpluses of another company. However, as shown by paragraph (iii), for the surpluses of a company in the second year - it says, "the Contracting Parties agree that if the surplus occurs in more than two (2) continuous economic years and provided that all previous deficits have been offset, the Concessor will pay the surplus (excess) to the Greek State within three months of the end of the financial year." What's that surplus to figure out what we're talking about? This paragraph refers to the previous paragraph in paragraph (a) of 10.3, which is the main condition that divides profits and revenues, and speaks of 24% that goes towards profits. I mean, we make a million profits, 24% keep it in an account, and we pay it as a prize. One year we have come out instead of 24% 26%, that is, instead of 240,000 euros, we will have a surplus. We keep the 20. Now we've shared it. In the second year of EUR 280,000, that is, forty grand over 240,000 euros, which is the 24% prize. We're keeping it. Then we exaggerate it. My objection - and what we need to see - is whether anyone will be able to control - because they must all have shared and who will check that the prizes are shared properly - that he shares 24%, when there is no control mechanism from the Greek State to see whether the surpluses are correctly or wrong and have been shared in the right way. We must see the interest of the Greek public. The Greek public should control this money every year and every year what remains like a surplus of what it has to share in the public eye. Not every two years. What is extremely interesting for the investor is on page 89, paragraph 13: ‘any prohibition of activities’. It lists us the activities, and beyond that, it is forbidden to do something by the person who has done the contest. The last paragraph tells us that the investor - and has put it in the last paragraph - has the right to put slots in the horse race. The right to take up other relevant gainful activities, including, in particular, recreational and operation facilities for the horse races and the agencies. It is worth seeing because in 2013 there was a process in the VLTS OP. We also know which competitions and which consortia have shown interest even today. We hadn't seen if they had the VLTS in the contract. If they had any anomaly on the offer. But if they didn't have the predicted profits from VLTS, it's one of those slot machines that'll compensate for income or for the chaos from the race race that isn't even the most profitable betting product, I mean, globally, how much more in Greece? We're not talking about Ascott in London. Let's see. It's on page 89 that says about VLTS. Let's take a look at the relationship and the revenue. Because this will be another contract. When we give someone the right to put slots it is a subconvention - I imagine or want to imagine from contracts that I have read - and you give them the right to use them, to own them and to win from another cost center that we say. Another cost center and a revenue center within the horse racing package. This should be seen in how it will be taxed together, separately or otherwise. If it's taxed like a slot machine, it's good, it's going to the VLTS tax that everyone gets. If there is a window, however, some special treatment because it is included in the horse betting contract, then this needs a seat, to say it legally. Am I right, Mr. Voridis? From there on, the investor - I hope he has done so, and I asked the committee - to bring it to the state, to the public, with all due regard for his legitimate rights and confidentiality, a business plan. He'll have to show us what he's thinking. Because the 40,500 that he's going to give, good ones are the slots they give, but they don't go into details if he's gonna pay, what costs he's taking, what obligations, what loans, what clearing will take or anything else. But that must have been foreseen by a three-year, five-year, two-year business plan. We, as rapporteurs or our parliamentary representatives, must be empowered by the parties to take five years with full confidentiality and see what this man who invests in doing, to know how we can control him from now on. Because the state must no longer be'stick dogs' and everyone must say that it will do something and not be controlled by anyone in relation to what it has signed, it has been committed at least contractually as a contractor to bring it. Also, it takes control at some point of the administrations to accumulate debts and mismanagement over the last fifteen years. A colleague also mentioned the results. They're familiar. Besides, they're posted online. It's not the time to do it, but it's not the time to lie to this government because it clears up a landscape, sets laws and rules. It's good to be privatized. But the contract needs attention. What I said, as did other Members of this House, pointed out. I have nothing to add but to give for the Minutes, to have the letter from the minutes of the City Council of Marcopoulou. He came to us at noon too. All Members must be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u51	What position do you take in this? The letter is known and has been filed. Do you vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u52	We are voting. I mean, Mr. Bourra, I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u53	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u54	If I say "I don't vote", what about now? If I say I don't vote for that, say I don't vote for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u55	Above - I beg your pardon - on this issue, Article 2, which refers to the issue of Marcopoulou, do you vote on it? Clear it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u56	We need to fix this. I said to the budget, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u57	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u58	It is nice to have this debate on your constituents.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u59	But what do we want to know?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u60	Please, Mr. Bourra.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u61	I don't do anything for the voters either of the ANELs or of the gentleman...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u62	Please, Mr. Bourra. I'm sorry, Mr. Cammene. Excuse me. Please follow the Rules of Procedure. Alas, if each Member is interrupting the speaker and asking him a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u63	You are right, Mr President, but some things are causing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u64	It makes sense to ask questions, but it is absurd to want until we drop a government or swallow a whole privatization or have to pay criminal clauses, not to pass by majority and to tell us 'give me 100 million because I have lost the slots' because this has to be done. We're voting for them and we're here to check it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u65	So you're not voting for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u66	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u67	I said we're here to check it out. How much did I say we check? Four things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u68	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u69	Article 2 has nothing to do with the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u70	Article 2 has nothing to do with the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u71	It's indirectly. When someone has a business plan, we have to say that in the course of the next year's use, he will also have put in precarious debts, he will also have put costs on liquidators, for judicial decisions, for officials, for IKAs, for banks. So I'm asking his plan to see P&L, profit and loss. What he's doing as income, what he's spending next year. Does it have as a cost any security to pay the City of Markopoulos or any other creditor? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u72	Mr Alexiadis, Deputy Minister of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. I did not want to be late, and I did not ask why I should be tabling a piece of legislation. Can I do it now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u74	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u75	Under the title of the draft law, the words ‘and other provisions’ are deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u76	I didn't want to take the floor and delay. I would like to say from the outset that, when Mr Chakalotos told me that I would be in this bill to replace him, because he has another obligation - as you know today, we have meetings with the institutions - on these specific issues, I did not feel enthusiasm because there are too many work and too many responsibilities. But when I came here and heard the speeches of the opposition representatives, I realized that I was making a big mistake. So I am delighted to see that for some people the arguments have been left in the pre-election period, and they have probably not changed in their speeches. What they said to Mr.4337 as argument, they come and repeat it now. And when you really hear criticism from officials of the New Democracy, PASOK, or from the Potami to SYRIZA on such matters, you fill up with the fact that you first understand their strategic deficit, the inability to formulate a political proposal and political criticism. In fact, you are condemning the Greek people for what it has voted on. But you did that again, three times in '15, didn't you believe? You need to change your strategy. Go out and blame SYRIZA, the SYRIZA Government - ANEL for responsible governance? You who - say it clearly - want the government to fall down to bring this whole regime back to life, all this complexity, all this viciousness that brought us here, and forced us to do all that we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Varoufakis, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u78	By sitting with you and doing to us, in a bill like this, lessons of sin theory - the newest is your rapporteur...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Chakalotos started it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u80	I think you should learn lessons of parliamentary morality and not interrupt the speaker, because if you have any arguments, you should make them here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u81	Sir, Dimas, please no more the same words. Do not interrupt the speaker, much more the Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u82	Not at parliamentary morals lessons!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u83	So, as far as issues are concerned, to charge SYRIZA sins for a bill relating to gambling, where you have written from the most insane points of Greek political history, what can we begin to remember? How did you split the state lottery address? With what procedures, what terms and prices? What did you do with the OPAP? What have you done with this whole story and you're coming to us now to move our finger? You criticise the SYRIZA for inconsistency and I am delighted to see that you are constantly testifying to what SYRIZA has done in an election. You will shortly be able to submit to the minutes all the minutes of the Committees of Inquiry and the elections that took place, not to mention the Greek people's conviction that they made a mistake and voted. Take the decision. You said that in the election, you did not convince anyone. You did it in programming, you told Mr.4337. I'm going to ask for another bill to have the pleasure of listening to it to see the strategy deficit. I understand why, because I feel awkward politically opposed to what SYRIZA does. Just what do you think? You don't do it well. You do not disagree on the substance of the policy, but you disagree on how we implement it. But that's what you told us about interacting lessons and governance courses. We don't do as you do. We go ahead, we change, we amend, we do not do as you do. We don't leave behind any grey belts, no inappropriate ones. To close this issue, we have also heard a criticism: for example, what will happen to workers? But he's answered. And we're going back to it again. A law has come, 4326, Article 16 of the 15 which fully answers what is going to happen with the workers and clears up and says in detail and explained to the committee what is to be done about these issues. Let us now come to the essence of the bill without eating too much of your time. With this draft law, the concession contract for the mutual race bet is ratified and the company's liquidation is governed by the law, which is the current body of this right. The contract, as you know, lasted 20 years, was signed on 20-4-2015 between TIEDD and an anonymous company called "HYPROPAP INVESTMENT LTD", a subsidiary of "OPAP INVESTMENT LTD" who became a host in the relevant process conducted by TIED. The object of the tender is laid down in paragraph 7 of Article 13 of Law No 4111/2013 and in substance concerns the non-exclusive right to conduct horse races and the exclusive right to conduct a reciprocal horse race betting. The relevant competitive procedure for the concession of the above rights was set to be conducted by the GOI following a decision of the Interministerial Committee on Restructuring and Privatisation in 2013, the call for tenders was made and the TSE was awarded to OPAP INVESTMENT LTD for a total price of EUR 40501,000. In addition, it should be noted that the contractor expressed his desire to lease the racetrack and other sports facilities of the DPRK in Markopoulos, as well as part of the company’s mobile equipment against a total annual lease of approximately 2,500,000. It is noted that both concessions and lease agreements prior to signature were audited by the Court of Auditors, which found the lawfulness of the procedure. With regard to the economic and social benefits, which will arise for the public in terms of these contracts, these are expected to be multiple, they have been mentioned and I do not want to take any time on these issues. I would like to stress, however, that it is expected that the individual with his know-how will give new impetus to the activity and contribute to its development. Furthermore, the relevant provision in the concession contract under which the concessionaire is obliged to conduct a minimum number of horse races. Alongside the rental of the horse race, the value of a particularly important property built in the context of the 2004 Olympic Games will be maintained. Do not open up, of course, now talk about what they were saying at the time about the Olympic Games and the real estate of some parties and what others were saying. These belong to the past, they've been omitted. Multiple benefits will arise for the local community, which will continue to be the attraction of races at national level. At the same time, it is estimated that jobs will be maintained, while the future development of the activity by the concessionaire with an increase in the number of runways (horses) and then of the horse races being conducted will lead to the development of individual activities directly or indirectly related to the sport. In paragraph 11, it is intended to supplement the existing provision of Article 13(7) of Law 411/2013, which provides that Article 479 of the Civil Code does not apply, so it is clearly laid down that the concessionaire is not a successor to the IPO for any relationship it has entered into, as well as for any obligation or right it has entered into in its operation. Finally, I would like to highlight another issue, which is not regulated by this bill, but is of great importance, as it concerns the future of the staff employed to date in the OIE. We would like to mention that, as I said before - since last May with L.4326, the main volume of workers has been translated into other bodies of the Ministry of Culture. This will minimise the social impact of the clearance of the EDP and ensure the working rights of staff as far as possible. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Georgios VARIVEOS is occupied by the Presidential Chair.]] Finally, I want to close down to not waste all your time, to answer the question of why the concession has to be ratified by law. The ratification of the concessions by law is common practice. We can tell you such contracts that have been ratified by law. Eight motorway construction contracts, the airport development contract, the COSCO PPA contract, as well as the concession contract for the concession of state lotteries showing significant similarities to the contract in question. The need for ratification by law lies in the fact that these contracts are of a mixed nature, as public law matters are also regulated, which could only be regulated by law or by special legislative powers. Moreover, the solution to the signature of the contract by the State by means of a special legislative authority would not give the same level of legal certainty as potential investors would not make a bid or offer a lower price. We tried to give the answers on a difficult day to critical issues. I repeat the Minister of Finance wanted to be here, but there was no possibility. As you can see, there is another obligation. I understand and feel enjoyment from the criticism that we as government accept from the Opposition on these issues. But I want to finally point out the need to change this strategy. Because some have spoken in their speeches, I did not want to take the floor and add anything else. On tax policy issues, may I remind you what we were discussing a few days ago and what arguments were there? For example, for HICPIA, there was the argument that this government is increasing HICPIA. The winding-up of HNVY has finally come out, and some people who said we will not make it, we are neither competent nor that is why it will go on October 28th and will still be cleared up. They started this morning, millions of HISBILE cleansings have come up, and the citizen can now see if what you were saying here...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u84	Clearance is out, Minister. By collecting money to see what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u85	We shall also see the collection, of course, Mr Yakumate, because we are concerned with realism and sensitivity to deal with matters. As far as ENPI is concerned, therefore, the citizen can see whether what we have heard here for so many days is true or not, the misinformation that we are increasing the ENPIA and can see in his liquidation that the ENPI is the same as the previous year. They're finishing lies. By the way, one more lie that sounds. He heard these days and there was on the website that the government's duels have been escaping and that we have an eruption of government duel at www. Minfin.gr the website of the Ministry of Finance is the painting we have taken today and we explain what is going on. So, if we compare the same months of the 1914s to the same months of the 1915s, that is to say until September, we will see that in 14 we had 7,692,000,000 while in 15 we have 7,017,000,000. We go much better in 2015 since 2014, although because of the capital controls we cannot necessarily take recovery measures that we had the possibility in 2015, but this proves that destruction, terrorism that the world is not paying, that everything is going to hell, that nothing can be done, is a lie. So take this decision, this criticism you are making and this opposition to the only good thing is in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u87	Mr President, I will take my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u88	Are we in the process?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u89	I made this choice, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, when the majority of the last part-session of Parliament brought the first legislative act of the Tsipras Government to this House, speaking as a parliamentary representative at that time, I said, reminding me of a phrase by Alekos Alavanos, 'good children'. Now that the first privatization is coming under law, I want to repeat this phrase by Alekos Alavanos. 'Good children'. And because you have spent more than half your time, Minister, criticising the criticism of the opposition, the first thing I have to say is that you have to get used to criticism, because the government has the facts against it, it does not have the opposition. And listen to the arguments, because many of them are experienced arguments, they are not speech exercises. Mr Theocharis reminded you of what you said here, as opposition, about every contract that the public wanted to conclude. You were incapable of distinguishing between privatisations and concessions. Full weakness. You called it all a sale. You were opposed to everything, and now you're chewing it all up. All of it! And you also become proclaimers of policies you had denounced and the governments that had denounced them as treacherous, merciful, that they are selling out public wealth. That's what you said. Because you weren't personally here, because you're a non-parliamentary minister? Your MPs, as Members of the Major Opposition, have said so. They were told by the MPs of governmental co-population for seven months, until that day of August 14, the third memorial. Where you changed. You've completely changed. And you are now coming here to criticize us for the criticism we have made, which is based, of course, on the change of face you have shown. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I would like to know how, since of human honesty, you feel within yourself. How do you feel in you now that you are voting for privatisations in relation to what you were saying? Feeling okay? Do you press hard or doubt what you're doing? And I don't care about politics. Politics is political. It is extinguished with arguments, in words. Inside you, how do you feel, when you were pioneers, not only of complaints and protests, but also of acts of violence, against the governments that said some of what you want to do today? And you won't let us sanctify. Today, yesterday in the committee with Mr Tsakalotos, we were exemplary opposition in the sense that we are also critical, but we also want the government to facilitate on dates the suffocators it sometimes has. We're not messing around here, Minister. We are serious - nothing to do with you - as opposition parties. But you won't let us sanctify. Today we agree. Mr Constantopoulos, the rapporteur for the PASOK - DIMAR, and I do not have much to add. But he has united our party's voice and with the voices of other parties of the National Representation that tell you to see the issues referred to in Article 2. In any case, however, this has been covered by my colleague. I don't want to stay any longer. We could, Minister, end this debate by stating our agreement at political level and I have the floor as a parliamentary representative. It is, however, the day, ladies and gentlemen, when we heard Mr. Friends, to characterise VAT increases in private education as five hundred euros, 13%, when the schools themselves determine the relevant cost for primary school, high school and high school, in hundreds of euros for each child. And note, ladies and gentlemen, not for the large private schools, which have institutional or other form and therefore are leaving out of the specific regulation, which is not yet a regulation. The regulation is 23%. 13% and 6% have not been legislated. In any case, it is about 500 to 600 euros for primary children, close to 700 to 800 euros or even 900 euros for high school and high school. Are these five-tenths? From what position does the Minister of Education thus speak and how does he offend the children of a middle-class who study there by exempting the public from their own participation in the expenditure? The public does not spend on these children either books or any other means of spending. Are you insulting these families? It's awesome! Is the Minister doing this criticism right? And is our excellent colleague Mr. Sevastakis right when he says that SYRIZA is not affected, is it not politically costing this measure because his voters do not belong to those who have children in private schools? Are these arguments? Can I combine them with Mr. Katrugalo? Mrs Christophilopoulou, myself and Mr Gregorakos, colleagues - and we want you to do so too, Mr Bruts, I do not know what she will say about what has hurt the insurance issues - we invited him to come to Parliament's Committee on Social Affairs. What's he talking about? Will supplementary pensions be curtailed by integrating the subsidiary into the main pension? Can you imagine, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, that I would have said that as the Minister of Labour? Not to have done it, to have said it! The phrase of Mr Tsipras, now Prime Minister, "We will not let you out of your homes", would have been, "We will not let you go home". You would have executed me. So it's Varoufakis number 2, because a number hasn't given. And the Committee of Wise Men has been working for a week. That's in the air. We don't know what's gonna happen. And he goes out like that, he says, he's laughing and he's making smart. It's Barofalis number two! But what he says is a slayer, not a minister. And this is today. The insurance is all over the place. Nothing has been heard in this House yet. What do you say? And, Minister, tell him. Today we have tabled the request. To come and tell us in the Committee on Social Affairs too. First of all, he should tell his party, the Independent Greeks, that is to say, the Congress. But tell the other parties of the National Representation to the six opposition parties. Let's see, where we know what she's talking about, how is she gonna get past the conversation? He's coming out on the channels, and he's saying that? He's unexplained and I don't want to go further. Ladies and gentlemen, since the Minister is here, Mr Alexiadis, who respects the National Representation, does he have to respect it a little more by giving us information - we have asked for it - for the hundred doses? I heard you talking about personal data protection. I'm a lawyer, and I respect that. Give us a picture, though. Don't give us names. Not what has been regulated, but on the basis of the legislative instrument. You remember, ladies and gentlemen, we voted on the one hundred-dollar arrangement. We have said that we are voting for it and we are not voting for it. That is why we did not support the amendments that you made, which gave appalling discretion to the taxpayers. And that has many readings, Minister. So we did not vote for that. That's not what we're asking you about. It's just people that came in there. We ask you about the legislative act of a Sunday. And we were the first parliamentary group to ask the question at that time. Other colleagues have done to you. You'll give us a picture. You're obliged to give us a picture. We don't want the names. We'll understand. We want a picture of the arrangements made and of the companies that have entered those regulations - I repeat - of the act of legislative content. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a horrifying issue of cohesion policy between yesterday and today and a horrifying issue of skill in the matters you are dealing with. What are you doing to get out of trouble? Does he save the image of the government here and there by any Minister who knows - such as Mr Alexiadis who knows his subject - but what about all the other problems that are created in the world? This morning I heard a gentleman dealing with the nursing homes, who said about the extra cost - around 100 euros - per person of age. Against this, you make a point forward: that you are honest and that the other political system is not, it is corrupt. A crown of this communication policy, ladies and gentlemen, is the media plan that is being discussed at the same time, now, in two Permanent Committees of Parliament and coming to plenary tomorrow 1st noon, a draft law which - as the National Broadcasting Council said - is aimed at the things of 1995 and not in 2015 to 2016 and which makes the Minister of State, with the responsibilities he gives him, the man who will dance the new dance of interactivity in the media field. If you do not make the changes that we tell you in almost all the parties in the Standing Committee, there is no consensus and a vote of support. You have the margin of one more night to make the changes that will make you out of this dance of a Stalinist form that wants to come to the point of communication to save the political problems that he has in his relationship with the world. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention the following: Mr Constantopoulos said so. We are voting. We ask for one or two changes. Colleagues of the New Democracy, you said an amendment, but you did not bring it. Did you bring her?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u90	We got her yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u91	He's been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u92	Good. What did the Minister say about her?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u93	He didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u94	There's an open matter. Good and convincing you said and explained, for me who's legal, for the first time after two days because ratification is needed. And the arguments were good. There may be reservations, but you have given a clear explanation. Give the National Representation and your opinion of the amendment tabled. If you can, accept her piece. Mr Constantopoulos gave you the thread for such an intervention from our side. We're waiting for her result. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Minister has the floor for a minute until Mr. Panayotarus comes to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u98	Please, as long as the Minister wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u99	So that Parliament does not have to deal with the issue again with the hundreds of instalments, and since we have all agreed that we cannot give personal data until we change the issue of tax confidentiality at some point in this country, I undertake that I will immediately communicate the table with whoever has been regulated - not their names, but the number - with debts of more than a million euros. I will do this, although my appeals four days in Parliament listen to the Lagard list in 2010-2012 and what happened in 2013-2014, have not been answered until today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u100	And for 2015 you can tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u101	For 2015, I brought the painting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u102	You brought the painting the numbers aren't good for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u103	We've been through it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u104	Here, Mr. Panayotare, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are talking about ratifying by law the granting of the exclusive right to organise and hold a reciprocal racing bet in Greece for a 20-year period. Of course, before I say two things about this bill, I would like to comment on what the Minister said, mainly in relation to CSR. The Minister spoke of a strategic deficit in the Qualified Opposition and lack of a proposal. That's right. However, to say that the Minister of Conflict SYRIZA - ANEL, who until a few months ago was in front of the tambourine, against privatization, has a strategic deficit, that Accuracy Opposition and, more generally, opposition, all of us who have an opposite view, must be heard as a comical one. And this is what happens at the moment you are implementing, and indeed with much greater warmth, memorial measures than the third memorial that everyone voted for - and SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks and the New Democracy and the PASOK and the River - except for the Golden Dawn that remains the only antimony force. As for the Communist Party, for its own reasons he said 'no'. You said that it has no right to speak of these terrible and terrible measures, which you are bringing to the detriment of all Greek citizens, from the richest to the poorest. Because, as we see most of the measures you bring are horizontal, they do not know whether or not someone has the burden-sharing capacity for these measures. As you also consider nothing else and say 'we have been voted on'. That is not what honours you at all, Minister. It does not honour your Government at all, it does not honor your Prime Minister, it does not honor anyone, from those who up until 5 July the very opposite was said. And then you surrendered, lifted up a white flag - unconditionally conspiracy - and do exactly what the lenders tell you. Do exactly what you spent until July 5th. You also accused the New Democracy of wanting to shoot you to become a government. But you think exactly the same thing and you do the same. And if the New Democracy for policy reasons, seeing the great defeat suffered by the elections a few days ago, has partially changed its tactics, this does not mean that it has changed its attitude and thinking. You referred at some point to the building of the horse race, but also to other buildings and said not to open a debate on 2004, obviously about the properties of the Olympic Games and others. Well, let's open up the debate and say a couple of things about what happened with the DEAD. Until before the Olympic Games the OHIM was located elsewhere, it was in Faliro - everyone knew that - it was particularly profitable and indeed everyone involved with the OHIM whether they were the players or the owners of horses, had asked that the OHIM should not be transferred to Markopoulos for too many reasons. They asked themselves to buy it with their own money, to upgrade it, they had a great plan, which of course was not heard and became one of the Olympic Real Estates, this in Markopoulos, the new racetrack. A mistreated, overpriced, overpriced, with too many imperfections. For years after the racetrack was built, the track had serious problems. The horses were wounded deadly and no one did anything about it. To understand the indifference and mistakes of the state - possibly intentionally, because privatization seems to have been the common denominator of all those who were seeking the fillets and profitable businesses of the state - there was not even a bus line in order to be able to take a player from Athens to Marcopoulou. And they waited later to have revenue, spectators and anything else. In order not to talk about unbelievable contracts, extremely damaging that of course no one was responsible for them and no one paid for them - such as foreign races, where the bet went unleashed - but there were the clauses and the OAU paid for them. And of course no one has been punished for this matter. But in other cases, such as in the PPA, a highly profitable enterprise, a business with a perspective. Everyone was aware of the importance of the port of Piraeus in the geopolitical game, where it is located, the evolution that has been happening in China, India and elsewhere, where the closest port is that of Piraeus from which the products can directly go to Central, Northern Europe and elsewhere. And artificially, deliberately and always with the help of trade unionists and workers, who also made tragic mistakes in the PPA, were harming the organization. However, the agency had revenues, although it did not have proper management. But how can it have, when PASOK and New Democracy ruled this place for forty years without doubt and now govern the new PASOK? Tragic mistakes and of course all unpunished. The Minister spoke of realism and sensitivity, and that sounds very ironic, with the Memorandum 3 that you voted for and with the draft budget 2016. Are you talking about realism and sensitivity with the prerequisites? There is no kind of mercy for anyone! Greek citizens die in hospitals, streets, anywhere. They're killing themselves! And suddenly, by magic, he ceased to be heard from the SYRIZA's agenda the issue of suicides that continue every day. Today we had a tragic incident in Halandri - some would hear it - where a professional, in which the municipality fined 8,500 euros because he made three tables above, bathed with gasoline, went to burn and saved him at the last minute. But of course SYRIZA, because we are talking about realism and sensitivity! We cannot talk about such humble incidents, which are disgraceful of the plans of lenders, which you are doing so beautifully! You said - and it is unbelievable for a SYRIZA government, not a tax office, as you are, Minister - that you are going better in due course. Others show that the overdue debts of individuals to the state are growing. They have approached the EUR 100 billion. And you said a number, which we have no reason to question, but obviously, because year after year you put the more taxes, you are draining as much as possible Greek citizens, where it may be reasonable to have an increase in tax capacity. You've taken everything from them. You're taxing everything. Well, some people pay. But if you put in real numbers what they should pay and what they're paying, it's probably a shameful failure! Delicious failure in everything! I come back to what you said, that you were voted on. Many of you voted, you were given a second chance. Of course, not as many as you think. The abstention approached 50%, most of which were frustrated by the fucking pause you did, because others were telling them and had bet a lot on it. 62% of the Greek people said 'no' in the referendum, they said 'no' in new memoranda, said 'no' in the troika, said 'no' to the lenders and that 'yes, we will fight, fight, we will crumble with them and what they want'. So they were ready for everything. And on one night you overthrown all of this and let most of you down. And you know what most people say: "Ishir, you're all the same." That's what they say. So you are not honoured to say that you have been voted on. No one voted for you! Fewer people voted for you and everyone! And the ball, unfortunately, gets the whole society. And they tell you, "All of them are, what to go to vote, no one's going to change anything." What you have achieved was tragic, dramatic and you are not entitled to say it and say "we". And of course, even if elections are held, I don't think you'll expect a vote after these measures. And now we understand why so deliberately - although it was known above - you wanted to hold elections. Before the S.H.I.E.L.D.S.S.S.S.S.C.S.S.R.S before one came before the other before all of this came in. Such a tsunami, such a storm of taxes, absurd taxes, has never happened before. Even during Turkish rule had not been understood by the Turks and their Jewish collectors to apply such taxes. You apply to the thirteen, to the twenty - five - year - old things that were applied in the years of Turkish domination. You are not honoured at all, Minister, which is what is happening! One more thing about taxes. We do not know - as is the case in the budget - the revenue from the GOI. You haven't. The S.H.I.E.L.D. was a red cloth for you. You've denounced all the presidents and governors of HICP and said that everyone would go to justice, that everyone would be apologized, that everyone would speak. But now, in good cooperation with them, you are selling bread and bread, on the grounds that you were left, that you were humanists and that you have a parallel program. Of course, it's a parallel program that nobody knows, and neither do you. Of course, day after day those who hope in the parallel program see that this does not exist. As you said, there will be other equivalents for VAT in schools, where for the first time this has been done. And finally you said that then there is no possibility, there are no other equivalents. Because - and let's not laugh at each other - the equivalent means that from somewhere else we'll take it, to give it away somewhere else. And you reach a point when you do not say that there are no equivalents anywhere, such as Mr Katrugalos and the supplementary pensions, which, while they said others, eventually the result is that supplementary pensions are abolished, the main pensions are reduced, the universe is destroyed. We could talk about this bill hours endless, Minister, and about the disgrace that is happening at the moment, which you are doing. You have no shame at all, you feel no shame in everything that's going on! As for the ratification of a law, one will only say: How is it possible to make the first privatisation and the debts of the DPRK, a'magic corner' on the substance, which you artificially destroyed, leave them to the state, the sucklers, take new loans to repay whatever debts they are - nobody knows where and how much they are - and give the company clean and nice? Then do the same - if you want - and anyone who wants to give, sell his business. Say, we'll take the debts each individual has, anyone's business, and have the ability of each individual to give his business clean and nice, free of taxes, debts and anything else. Clearly, we are voting against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Brutsis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised. I am surprised that I have attended my friend, and I would say - and my old colleague, Mr Tryphoon Alexiades, today in the capacity of the Minister, and I really see him mutated. Welcome to Parliament, Mr Typhoon Alexiadis. However, you cannot teach a parliamentary morale, because in Parliament, for many years now, this fact called the New Democracy, the parliamentary morality and the issues relating to responsibility and seriousness always suggests it. I would remind you that in the party to which you belong - and you and many other ministers sitting next to you - for a very long time - and this has been demonstrated by this bill - years now by turning to television or writing in various newspapers, you have conquered and listened to a very strong criticism, which was a structural opposition. You never suggested anything. You were only trying to say pleasantly. You did not say anything that would be beneficial to the country. Everything was moving in this well-known logic, the antimony, with which you won the elections. But now you're government and you have responsibilities. Now you have a responsibility to rule. And, unfortunately, things - and I am not saying this as a representative of the New Democracy and the New Democracy - unfortunately the figures do not go well. I would like to begin with a first point, which is essentially the big difference between us. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, is a bill of demilitarisation. We morally, politically, ideologically, always see that militarisations are in favour of creating wealth in society, helping the development and growth of the economy and it is something we believe in and for which we are fighting for. So this bill may have made you more careful. We should just turn the time back a little bit. Not long, not a year back. Do you know what you were saying about this New Democracy initiative? If we look back on the Minutes, Mr Alexiadis, you will not feel well at all. You were talking about selling out - about the bill you're bringing today - you were talking about little, about black money, about corruption. That's what you said, isn't it? For this bill! And you come here today, you enter it and you see what will say responsibility from one party, such as the New Democracy, but also from other parties. We're voting on it. This is a big, substantial difference between us. And that makes us say we're better. Unfortunately, however, as I have said before, things and developments are not pleasant, ladies and gentlemen. And I say this, because beyond the ideological differences we have, I have to tell you that we all live here, we all want the interest and benefit of our country and we all seek a common goal, that Greece should go well. It was only yesterday that some numbers were announced. These numbers break every record. It's the numbers of the due deadlines. Mr Alexiadis, unfortunately - you know it - for just one month - and this is unprecedented, every record is broken in relation to all previous years - we have a billion euros which is not possible to pay a total tax and insurance contributions and from January to today EUR 8 billion. Things are now becoming dangerous because, as it turns out to be financially, whatever you do, whatever financial adjustments you make and do, they do not lead anywhere if, in the end, the financial indicators of growth are not increased. Everything, Mr. Alexiadis, is going to the worst. And because you are a man who observes and monitors the crucial issue of tax revenue, I would draw attention to you, because from the part called State revenue, too much will be decided for our country in the next few years. And when I say, 'the next time', I mean until the end of the year. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, my personal assessment is that we will be faced with serious deadlock in the next three months either socially or economically. Any budgetary gap that is created will require a new adjustment. We're entering a cathode, which won't be finished. If you tell me what you have done in previous years?’, there are two answers. The first answer: At the time of battle you do not seek responsibility for many, many years ago. You have responsibilities too. Do you remember those trade unions that you and the left of the House were subsidising for every request that was in existence? ‘Elevations in wages, increases in pensions’. There was no request to which you did not accede. You never said no. In any case, in the face of the danger of the country, it is not a question of criticising yesterday. That's my opinion. But if you want to criticise yesterday, I will take you to the very nearest time. I will tell you that I served the Samara government for two and a half years in the hardest ministry. I have been succeeded by ministers, such as Mr Loverdos, from a critical ministry such as the Ministry of Social Security, since the very last period, again difficult financial adjustment. Nothing can be said to be perfect. But things were better. Financial indicators, whether you like it or not - because we have to tell the truth - created prospects and hope. Unemployment has fallen by 2.5%. We have created a social environment for protecting the weak, unprecedented for the country in difficulties. The day before yesterday, in a radio interview, I confessed that it was my personal mistake: I have never been able, Mr Alexiadis, to communicate to the previous government the great social intervention in favour of the weaknesses he has made. I have been dealing with the issues of efficiency and pensions and unemployment issues. I see you're moving your head. So listen. In the previous government for the welfare state, for the weak, for the unemployed, for the workers we have made speeches unique, which have not been decades now. The A21, family allowances, seven hundred fifty-five million euros. And the first child was getting an allowance. When did this happen again? Previous government. We didn't bring it up. And now I hear you're having trouble paying for it. The four hundred and fifty million, the social dividend from the surplus of the state budget, when did that happen? From the previous government for the weak. This year you didn't give it. Of course, there is the great intersection that - whether you like it or not - has been criticised in the New Democracy by the previous government 'first time left' in the previous seven months for the minimum guaranteed income. Whether you like it or not, it is law and will be the largest social intervention of the Greek state in the years to come. It is the Greek state's most advanced social intervention for the weak. And you stopped that. And the troika comes - and you must see this within your party - and it requires you to do so, because it is the most advanced social policy at European level. In fact, we have introduced systems because of the "ERGANIS" and because of the electronic crossroads we have now had the possibility, as Mr Theocharis had done in real terms in the Ministry of Finance, and all of this we have had cross-checks which are unique, through which it is the most advanced system. And you stopped all that. Why, Mr. Alexiadis? In any case, we have lost in this area. We lost communication. We have granted the crucial issue of the social state to you, in the sense that we have not shown what we have done, and we have left you in a reasonable ammunition to say that you will support the unemployed, that you will smash memos, that you will increase pensions and the rest. But because the punishment in politics is something that comes very soon, I think it came for you, because you are disgusting, you are going under the bar and people are watching. The world is also watching this bill that, as I told you, a year ago you were condemning it as corruption and denounced it as a sale. Today you come and enter it and the opposition supports it. What I have to tell you about this bill - I shall also table the amendment that all the parties have told you - is this: why do you not go ahead with this consensus, which we are seeking? Go ahead. Take and look positively at the amendment to Article 2 to support all of us together and the articles in particular. What frightens me, ladies and gentlemen, is that the crucial issue of demilitarisation is a very important dimension for the issue of the fiscal evolution of our country. The day before yesterday, in a newspaper by Mr. Pitsirlas - your own man, HIDE - he announced that the two billion you have put up for privatizations in 2016 will not be implemented. This is a major issue, in the sense that if from now on the man who holds the steering wheel of the colonisations states that we will not be able to collect the money, it is a very serious issue for our country's economy. One more thing. You welcome the issue of HISPIA, and I don't know why. Why did you manage to get the notes out? But it's your job. It goes without saying that you should do that. But you should have a self-critical element somewhere, because until January you said, on the one hand, that there will be no HPAI, but the worst thing is that an HPAI is coming for the Greeks, who is charged, beyond what you say. Personal businesses, hotel and accommodation were charged. Because I come from an island area, the message I bring to you is the anger of the world, of a world with three and four rooms that will first pay supplementary HISPIA. This is SYRIZA project. One more thing. Relapse for the 100 doses. I don't know why, but we call it fiasco. We call it fiasco - I said it in another speech to the House - for this simple reason: The hundred doses and generally when a state regulates to relieve the world, there must be two elements: the element of collection and the element of stability and consistency. You didn't do either. I will not go into our own, which we did on our own, with unilateral energy, but the troika joined then. He agreed we don't have to run. Ms. Valavani came out, SYRIZA developed his movement "I'm not paying", that you'll be separating and no one will pay, I'm over it. I'm on your own 100 doses. We had reservations. We asked you whether this would be a piece of legislation, which would last. You said from the House that you didn't listen to anyone and move on. And we voted for it. The New Democracy and the other parties have voted. What happened today? Do you understand? To date, at the insurance funds of EUR 1.5 billion, it has left the regulations and this has been before the new law is passed. You uploaded the interest rate from 0.5% to 5.5% and elsewhere from 3% to 5.05%. Compared to us who even had it at 4%, you brought it up one unit. And the worst part is that none of the arrangements know if the doses he's got, the hundreds, the seventy, and he falls into the subjective crisis, and yet you haven't made the ministerial decision. I was listening this morning. I know you're a working man. Why don't you make the ministerial decision so that there won't be a subjective crisis and people running to the tax and insurance funds to find out if they can be subject to the dose next month? You didn't do any of this. In any case, because things are not evolving well, I would draw your attention here: be more careful in the style and the spirit of Parliament. And recommend to Mr Katrugalo, the Minister for Social Security, to reduce his public appearances. It's bad. I don't care he's hurting SYRIZA. It shows total ignorance and complete ambiguity of what it says. Nobody understands what they're saying, but nobody does! On which show it goes, it says that 'yes, we will build a new reform for insurance'. In fact, we all understand that a horizontal reduction in pensions is coming. But I care about the world. You've upset workers and retired people. They don't know what environment they'll be in the next day. But I am warning through the parliamentary process, as I have done in the public debate, do not think - what Mr Katrugalos says - of abolishing supplementary pensions. It is a cause of war within the House. That's us. That's us. We won't take people down on the sidewalk. Do you think of what would have happened if I, as Minister of State in the previous period, dare only confuse the abolition of supplementary pensions? Do you know what supplementary pensions are? Do you think so? Two pillars of social security have the insurance system, the main pension and the subsidiary, which is complementary and has an additional EUR 2.1 billion reserve today and I add EUR 400 million more from the police, port and security bodies and are reserves of 2.5 billion. And it's a employee contribution and an employer and it doesn't have any business in the state. And Mr. Katrugalos lies when he says the state has contributed. He has not given a single euro until today. Will you abolish the second pillar of social security? You, the Left? And do you tolerate hearing Mr. Catrugalo say all this? Well, we won't allow you to! We're making this clear. We'll be squatting and ruthless in this particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u108	Mr. Brutsi, put a perfect one. You've covered all the issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u109	I'm done. We will support one million and thousands of retired people who are currently receiving supplementary pensions. It is an ancillary fund, which is currently a model of operation. I am simply saying to you, as I have said in the previous House, that I inherited it in a situation where supplementary pensions were given with responsible statements and bags. I picked up all the funds, became a fund, and computerized everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u110	Mr. Brutsis, let me tell you something when the insurance is discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u111	I shall conclude, Mr President. We have EUR 70 million in extra income in supplementary pensions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u112	Mr President, it is over time!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u113	Parliamentary representatives are drowning in the right and favoured by the Members. You understand that, but it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u114	I'm one of those who rarely abuse time. However, I am referring to a major issue, which has now arisen from the statements made by Mr Katrugalos, which is a major political issue. Keep time from my dentistry, if you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u115	The world will go down the street alone, no matter what the government says. All the Law of Drama tomorrow is closed, it will completely shut down the center of the city because it closes the hospital. The world can't go down the street.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u116	You are a drama in Drama too, but we cannot cover everything in a speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, our strength is both the parliamentary level and the seriousness and responsibility. We do not want reactions like those which the Prime Minister, Mr. Tsipras himself, was fascinating when he had said in public statements: 'You will be afraid to leave your house'. The Prime Minister had said this and now you are in the face of a new reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u118	Mr. Brutsi, you have covered the time of Prime Minister! Put a perfect one on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u119	I'm done, Mr. President. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we need seriousness and responsibility. It's not working. You've screwed up, in a few words. As many budgetary adjustments as you do, as hard measures as you bring, no matter how golden and mantle to invest over rhetoric and communication tactics, you will not make it. We all have to see the next day. That is why I would recommend seriousness and responsibility, especially from this Step. I'm making the legislative improvements to Article 2, and I declare that we have made our position clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Danellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. My dear Minister, do not constantly invoke the vote of the Greek people, which no one has ever questioned. Do not adopt the unforgettable saying of the unmistakable Andreas Papandreou, which is also the definition of pluralism: "There is no institution above the people." This has nothing to do with the Left. Ladies and gentlemen, for the only mature demilitarisation it has taken eight months to bring the relevant bill to the House for ratification, and indeed as a matter of urgency the disgraceful procedure of the urgent procedure. At the same time, the cost of the delay significantly reduces the expected profits of the State from the privatisation of the EDP. In simple terms, the whole process could have been over since January even when you were taking the first lessons of governance. They are lessons, the cost of which we now have to pay. Because the country is called upon to pay for your failures every time you are late to make decisions. The Heads of Institutions arrived in Athens yesterday to check the course of your SYRIZA - ANEL Memorial. And where are we? From the list of forty-nine measures provided for in the Memorandum, so far the Government has only implemented sixteen actions, namely 33%, and the remaining thirty three actions have not been carried out or partly advanced, i.e. 67%. So how will you get the EUR 2 billion of the first instalment? The postponement of a decision on the future of the EuroWorking Group is particularly worrying the other day, and most importantly, the substitutability of EUR 1 billion, which requires the adoption of a second package of measures, to be implemented by 4 November. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the government clearly needs to speed up its pace. The country cannot withstand any other experimentation and no longer has time to lose. The philosophical stone you've been looking for since last January is probably the same as you're convinced that it doesn't exist. Besides, the numbers speak for themselves. For every month to delay the ratification of this Agreement to privatise the ODR, the Agency has damaged the amount of EUR 1.5 million, i.e. from the 28th of last January that you granted the first extension, to follow another six, we have lost 1/4 of the amount that the State would receive from the privatisation of the OIE if the transaction had been completed on time. I would remind you that this Convention covers revenues of just EUR 40.5 million for the Greek State. How do you think you will secure the remaining EUR 2,16 billion from privatisations in the preliminary draft budget for 2016 when it takes eight months for each privatisation? Now there are some questions that need to be answered on the contract itself. You claim that from annual gross profits a percentage of 30% will be passed on to the public. However, you also know that this is a virtual percentage, since most of the percentage, 24%, will be directed to a special account of the concessionaire only for the payment of the racing prizes that are conducted live. Paragraph 10(5) also allows the concessionaire to use up to two thirds of this amount as working capital for the payment of commissions to providers of foreign horse racing, since this amount arises from foreign bets, i.e. the State offers both prizes and gives the OSP a non-interested working capital for the international activities of the horse racing bet. How can the Greek State grant interest-free loans to a private company such as the OPAP? In addition, 1.5% of the above-mentioned proportion of gross annual profits that go to state funds is ultimately directed at the operational costs of the "Philippi Union" with a minimum of 500,000 euros. And this further reduces what I expect the Greek public on a yearly basis, leaving a modest figure of 4.5% for the state funds. This is a very small percentage of profit based on international standards. However, the price of privatization of the OIE is estimated at EUR 40.5 million paid in three instalments. In particular, 20% of the consideration will come with the signature of the contract, 30% with the date of entry into force and 50% of the consideration one year after the date of entry into force plus 10%. However, the payment of the price in instalments was not provided for in the original agreement, despite the fact that you made sure that the relevant information was removed from the website of the GOI. This changes the conditions, as the rate was to be paid once. In addition to this, there is currently an issue which concerns the uncertainties of the organization's liquidation. How do you plan to deal, for example, with the EUR 31 million from unpaid taxes - fees required by the decision of the Trimelas Administrative Court of Athens, the Municipality of Marcopoulou from the DDI? Will you, Minister, adopt the proposals that have been made by the other parties in opposition, on the proposals provided for in the second article? How do you plan to deal with the agency's debts of EUR 2 million to its employees? The EUR 22 to 25 million in INTRALT? The 1.5m euros in PPC? I'm afraid as it goes, instead of making money for the public, we'll be in our pockets. Ladies and gentlemen, we, the river, support the privatization of the EDP and will vote in favour of the draft law in principle. Any other option would be detrimental to both the State and the OIE itself and to the workers in it. However, from this first privatisation you should draw some conclusions and get some lessons. The determination and strict observance of the timetables are of paramount importance in order to ensure that a initially profitable contract does not eventually come back for the public interest. Finally, Minister, the fact that you managed to get up within the time you had pre-drafted the notes on HISBIA is not a reason why you should be taken, when you committed before the elections that HISBIA would be a past from the year that is running, and now we know that HISBIA is here to stay for good, whether they get another name or improve, of course, which we hope will happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u122	With the generous consent of the parliamentary representatives, two Members, Mr Theonas and Mrs Asmakopoulou, will now speak. Mr. Papachristopoulos will have the floor after the word.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with two brief comments. Because I have been very moved by listening all afternoon to the speeches of colleagues from both New Democracy and other parties, I would like to ask a question to my friend and my forgiveness, to Giannis Vroutzis: Since there is such a thrill, why has SYRIZA not promoted this bill seven months earlier, and it could be 'unjustified for SYRIZA', since you have so much pain because this bill was not passed earlier? Excuse me, from 2012 to December 2014 who ruled this country? After having had this assessment of the need for ratification by law of this concession, why didn't you bring it for so many months and then blame SYRIZA? On the other hand, I say that my emotion is even greater when I hear you say "SYRIZA is mutated", "has suffered a transformation"...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u124	Mutagenicity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u125	Mutagenicity. Okay, no metaplase. That's right! Thank you for the correction. You bring me to find two friends of my ophthalmologists who are very good, to send you - they are close here, to Aegeano and to a people's neighborhood not to say that I take you to any high living rooms - to help you clearly see that there are neither mutants in SYRIZA nor mutants around you all the time. Everyone's had a mutation!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u126	Proof cut?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u127	You will allow me to go into the matter, because the truth is that it has bothered me many times and the fact that in the debate too many speakers have been out of the question and have never been corrected. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] We are talking about a bill that has specific content, specific orientation, and here we are dealing with, and I do not know what else goes through our minds. However, let me stop here, because I will also waste my time. I, Minister, would like to ask a question which concerns me sincerely: why are we obliged to respect, not from a formal, legal, but political point of view, the sales made by the GOI as an international broker, who gave him a lot of public property with a goal: to sell them? Why do we have to be so pressed he saves and well to give a solution and a situation to what he does and what the TIAD goes on and sells? What concerns me is whether we will do the same with the fillet of the Greek airport, which was sold - as sold - at the "EUROBANK" of Mr Latsis. I don't know if that's where there has to be such an approach. I would like to pay particular attention to the rights of workers from wages. It must be clear, at least in this House, that they are working years whole with daily contracts. One day they were hired, the next day they were fired and reoccupied for another day. They still owe them after so many years, maybe even thirty years. I remember a colleague who was indeed the IAEA. We were in GSEE together. We were also representatives of the ESC of the European Union. He had often expressed his agony to me because he was working at the OHIM on a daily contract. So today - when this law is passed - it cannot be clear that these people will be paid by priority for what the OHIM owes them. I think that can be regulated. Indeed, I am assisted here by the amendment tabled by the Minister, from which I would ask him to remove two words in the third order. Where it says "to the rest of a third of the monthlyly paid leases..." to remove the words "may be..." so that all of this, that is to say, "that which is to say, "that which falls short of paragraph 7 of this article, part or all of it paid out of the rent... is transferred by the administration of the IPO. to the workers of the OIE’. I think this is a positive approach. The "may..." enables it not to do this or to do anything other than go through the minds of any administrations that are currently in existence or will remain in the OAU. The third point I would like to stress is that the rights of the Municipality of Markopoulos must be dealt with in the same way. The municipality has rights to the properties of the hippodrome in the area of Marcopoulou, as well as to the Veterinary Clinic in the Municipality of Marcopoulou. It is clinically large animals, mainly horses, but also has more general uses. Here too, the rights of the Municipality of Markopoulos must be supported, while at the same time aiming to continue operating the Veterinary Clinic, so that there are no gaps and that any administration of the IMI can change this function to some extent, which will be at the expense of the municipality's interests, but above all at the expense of the work that this clinic does. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr. Theonas. Mrs Asmakopoulou will be given the floor and will be followed by the Parliamentary Representative of ANELs Mr Papachristopoulos. Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this story began in 2013. I have just heard from his colleague SYRIZA why we did not bring it to Parliament. The reason is why, as stated in the explanatory statement, on page 3, the concession contract was signed on April 24, 2015 between the GOI and the Anonymous Company, so it could not come sooner. Since then history has been known. You tried to bring her, Mrs Constantopoulos did not leave you, you did an act of legislation and we are here today. We are here today, but we have, of course, not forgotten what you have been saying over the years about privatisation. I've got some strings here. Let's start from 2012. I have here a statement from SYRIZA about the sale of public wealth. It says that privatization and the expropriation of public wealth, not only do not serve the public interest and development, but complete the levelling-up of the economy and society. Is that what we're doing today? Are we leveling society and the economy? And, of course, Mr Panzas, in his speech on the occasion of another bill in 2014, stated categorically that SYRIZA opposes the divestment of the FDI and the horse betting. He also said that he is a ruthless neoliberalism and a complication throughout her majesty. I have more here: Questions by colleagues, questions by Mrs Gerovas, by the current Government spokesman for this particular issue and, of course, a statement by Mr Tsipras on airports - a yes, you have signed them in the end - which says that this sale is a return to feudalism. And because you once told us something about montaziers - I don't hear that last - I'm filing about the Minutes and your last place in the government program you submitted in September, where in the list of privatizations this is not privatization. [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Today, of course, in the explanatory statement you also recognise the importance of the contract and the benefits for the Greek State. It has many benefits, you say. You are referring to maintaining jobs, to future growth, to what the municipality will get, to how the area will grow. And you're right you're doing this. And I would like to tell you at this point that what we call 'transition' in this case is welcome. And because I have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur say that we are abducting you, we are not in any way indulging you for bringing this convention to ratification. And of course, our rapporteur, Mr Dimas, rightly said that this is a task of the Antonis Samaras government. And let me complement and clarify that I am very proud of the work of the Antonis Samaras government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And also, recognizing this work is my personal guide to my opposition attitude and this ratification and in general. Well, we don't indulge you. We are glad that you recognize this work and we are glad to see you bring it. This is why, moreover, without prejudice to what our rapporteur has said, we shall vote on it. But let's go see this change of yours, which in this particular case is welcome, because it is welcome. It is also welcome on the basis of our ideology and our principles. That is why we welcome it, because we believe that this must be done to bring growth. These must be done to reduce taxes: Investments and privatisation to create jobs, in order to reduce unemployment, support for the private economy and entrepreneurship. Do you believe that? You know, it's another mutation that I raise my hand and say yes to everything - and even to it - and I do so. Today, when we were discussing these or rather a little earlier, we had two meetings of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. At these meetings, therefore, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy discussed the preliminary draft budget. I think that every Greek and every Greek woman, even if they have no expertise in economics, should see only two pages. And I am referring to page 19, which has an amazing table showing the situation that the economy was in 2014, the one that will be in 2015 and the one that will be in 2016, ladies and gentlemen. It shows that GDP is falling and we have a recession. It shows that private consumption, public consumption, gross fixed capital formation, employment has decreased. Soon we won't have to look at paintings. People understand it. Of course, there is also page 45 and Table 2.8 entitled Financial Interventions Convention 2015-2016, in detail. And what is this, ladies and gentlemen? It's a list of measures. It takes a lot of time to read the list of measures to you. It's a big painting with nineteen headlines. And the first is the reform of the VAT code. This is the increase in food, the increase in the islands and, of course, the increase in private education, which was announced today that, while it was zero, you proposed 23%. You promised the world you'd get it back and you'll find equivalent. Finally, today we have this amazing system, 0% in kindergartens, 13% in primary and high school and 6% in school. It's okay to send your child to a private school in kindergarten, but not to primary and high school. Of course, the Minister for Education has defended this today, saying that the 100 million - which you will receive from it and you have not found the other equivalents - are five dozen. Yes, sir. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, that we voted for this agreement precisely because we wanted to stop the debate on the five-year-olds, not to bring it back. So that's what he said they were five hundred. But the Minister said something else. The Minister said, of course, - and I quote this - that it is good for those who are sending your children to private schools. To pay to send your children to school, to pay for private schools, for your children, because you make the choice of your available income to devote it to private education, because that's what you like to do for your children. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You know what? I have not lied about who sends his children to private schools, because it is the right of everyone, even of the public, to the most anticipated, from any party. That's what I think. Well done, the Minister said. I shall therefore conclude - and thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - by saying that we are, of course, voting for ratification. We are pleased about this mutation, but I am very afraid that it is super superficial, because in your ideas you have not mutated at all, and that is the main problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mrs Asmakopoulou. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Papachristopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. To land a little bit in fact, because I fear that overreacting is a signal that has been tabled many times - not everyone, fortunately - in this Chamber. I want to remind you of two numbers. The three hundred and fifty thousand presented by Theanos Fotius have already been made a million and care has been taken, because they are below the poverty line and do not have to eat every day. It's something we found, something we didn't create. Another number, astonishing also, is 808 million, without guarantees, bank loans granted to the media, the ones on which the bill comes on Saturday, which the three opposition parties at least say will not vote. It's thrilling to hear an appeal, how you treated the workers and what you do, etc. I even heard it say how I feel inside. I feel really good. I don't know how those who with a one-tier have cleared 26 billion with the PSI from the insurance funds, how they felt when they played the stock of the Funds on the Stock Exchange, how they felt that they broke the most robust fund, the NAT, how they felt with structured bonds. I'm saying that to get back to reality. I don't want to go back. But the truth, unfortunately, is hot. Mistakes, yes, wrong choices, yes. It's not just the one who does nothing. But white black can't be done. I also want to remind you with today's figures that the recession, while estimated at 2.3%, will fall to 0.9%. For those who know economy, it's an important size for those who lend us. I would also like to remind you that ten-year bonds have probably reached the lowest levels since 2013 and 2014. I would also like to remind you that Draghi is making a great effort to ensure that the assessment is not a basic condition for the recapitalisation of the banks, which is considered to be given. That's what I'm saying, because the exaggeration must have limits. This government is certainly going through difficult hours, as is society. He's making a huge effort. We'll see if it works. I think he will. But it's an honest effort. It is an attempt in the right direction. As for this bill, why is it bad? SYRIZA is accused of being a prisoner. Here, then, is the proof of an issue that is not social, as it is not PPC, water, or public hospitals. It's just jockey. In fact, if you ask me, I will agree with the JRC. I hope that the day will come when the economy does not rely on gambler things, whether it's called a racetrack or anything else. But it's a reality. People work there, and that's what we have to respect. So what's more normal to sell? These are market rules. It's not bad. This is a step forward and not backwards. I see you're building up all your arguments to prove the mutation. I didn't understand that. So, to understand, what should be the racetrack? Public hospital? Finally, I am not going to take the time, because I do not think it is necessary, as 'not in the long run', but I want to say that privatization took place in the OPCW. It is the epitome - it could, in fact, also be a thesis - of what it will say 'bad privatisation'. I would point out this for those who are criticising today about what is going to happen with this validation of EUR 40 million. They're imagining few, but they're not that small. There's more to win and go by. Of course, we as Independent Greeks are voting for this bill and we are entering the battle - and here is my last word - for what is going to happen on Saturday. I want to make an honest appeal. Officially, the loans without guarantees to SMEs are EUR 808 million. If this isn't a tangible proof of the political world's behavior, then I don't know what it is. I have nothing with the media. This is the business of the businessman, that is to say win. But the tango wants two. Here, it takes flesh and bone the word 'complexion'. I would like to believe that both the committees and the Sabbath will become a new philosophy in order to leave this logic, because it is a rule of democracy that the media should be corrected and because I have again begun to listen to operations that say 'the ruler will become the government' and he goes on to say. Finally, because the word 'approximate' should not be absent, I make a request - an appeal - that those who are involved in the insurance should say a few. It's a big deal. It is about wrists, people who take 250 euros or 300 euros and must be careful that those from the government are talking about insurance. It is a form of criticism, honest and clear, within the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u132	Thank you to Mr Papachristopoulos and to the economy of time. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is quite natural for a debate in plenary to be fuelled by the juncture. I do not have time to go into all the issues of the situation, but I will make two - three comments, addressing the ministers of government. More modestly, Mr Ministers, when we are at a time that is under way, too many major issues, for which I am absolutely sure the government will apologise for a long time. Today we discussed the preliminary draft budget in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, a budget which makes us back many years, in deficits, in recession and in unemployment. We are in the midst of Mr Katrugalou's perrination, from the theories of Friedman and the neoliberals of America to the horizontal cuts, which we do not know where it will end. We also have a minister, Mr Pappas, who, supposedly, wants to put order on the television scene, but, as we have proved and will prove in the next two days, wants to have them all together, both today and tomorrow. Therefore, let us see this bill that comes to grant the right to bet on the race, without any other references, on the basis of which the government is trying to remind us of things for which I am absolutely sure it will be apologized very soon. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I do not think you have any ideological thoughts on the need for the public not to be a "magist". It is another debate about what gambling is about the system and what a state is doing to discipline and protect citizens - there is a real and necessary one - and another is the debate that the state should have given it up earlier. However, we were involved with your ideas and with a parliamentary procedure in the previous seven months - which many charge it to Mrs Constantopoulos, but it is not only responsible, because she was not alone, because some supported her, of course, by the government - the time has passed for the ratification of this convention and came to nothing but one, that is, to end the six-month ratification period and to lose the public even the advance that she had received from the majority. I say this because we will have other issues. The ministers must be more diligent in the performance of their duties and not be filled with legislative acts in the Official Journal of the Government - which, of course, neither we nor the ordinary citizens - when they find that the parliamentary procedure does not allow them to deal with issues that are escaping them. This issue, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, is not only formal, it is also essential, because in the way in which we legislate the ratification of this convention, in accordance with the urgency procedure, we were not allowed to ask for the presence of the bodies when discussing the ratification of this convention. As I said yesterday - other colleagues have said so as well, our rapporteur has said so, as well as our parliamentary representative, but also most of the majority Members - there are two major issues. One issue concerns the Marcopoulou Municipality and the other concerns workers. I believe we would also have the opportunity by means of a good piece of legislation in Article 2, which provides for the liquidation, to deal with either the question of the compensation which the Municipality of Markopoulos has made, or the assignment of the small area it calls for in order to create a school complex. As also, we could deal with the question of workers' debts. A lot of discussion can be done about how many people are and how many will go with the transfer process, with the absorption process from the OPAP and so on. And it must be done, but it cannot be done, because this is the way we are discussing, we are not in a position to make it. And much more if the provisions remain the same, as they have been tabled, despite the improvement made by the Ministry of Finance, I fear that the issue of recruits is not covered. And we cannot leave this Chamber without having solved it. In fact, this issue has been raised by the majority Members. I was listening to Mr. Theonas earlier. All Members are absolutely right. And now in my time, I come to another remark. Ladies and gentlemen of all the wings, the privatisation process, according to what the government has agreed, must go ahead. In fact, the budget is written revenues of 2 billion. This process will mainly be carried out by the HICP. The House may not be called upon to ratify contracts. The House has a say and must be involved in this process. And there is no other way, despite the Ministry of Finance, which has the political responsibility, to bring in here every time the leadership of HIDE or the relevant services and to present us with the drafts and specifications of the notices, so that we can have an opinion and an opinion. At least we imposed this, if you like, on several occasions in the previous House. So, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you must at least ensure this minimal process of participation by Parliament in this process of privatisation to ensure the public interest and the interest of local communities. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. The speaker of the Independent Greeks, George Lazarides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a contract negotiated by the previous government and already estimated revenue. As you can see, there is not much room for manoeuvre. But there are some issues worth mentioning. We need to check and stop the flow of the black money to the 'UPD.' "STORING", like all gambling, in many cases have created social problems because of the dependence and addiction that it causes, if you like, gambling. It is therefore necessary to control the taxation of profits and also to connect these profits to the persons who participate in the ‘TIFM’, introducing their full tax data into the system. This helps fiscal control, while at the same time it can act as a deterrent and as a means of protecting thousands of our addicted citizens, causing a blow to excessive lending and toddling in most cases. We all know what is going on by loan sharks and casinos and also by horse racers, and where, in any case, there are gambling and they have the space to move. We are not opposed to privatization, as long as it is done properly. Real estate needs to be exploited and rules must finally be introduced that will give growth in local communities beyond concessionaires. The concession agreement provides for 30% of revenues to be directed to prizes and 4.5% to the public. In essence, that is to say, the prizes provided are paid by the State as a whole, while the investor’s participation remains virtually zero. That's something you need to see again. It was also agreed that, every two years, surpluses would return part of the surplus to the State. You need to see this again and, in my opinion, it should be every year. Finally, you should pay attention to Articles 2 and 13. I would like here to add that we are particularly careful and to protect municipalities and local communities. And here I close not wanting to abuse your time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Mr. Diaras Georgios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, I think this has been a good deal covered. However, I would like to clarify my personal view, but also the ideological and political position of the Left and the Ecology in these two that I am expressing in Parliament. We are opposed to the development of gambling in the country, even to increasing the revenues of the state. If we assess the overall benefit or damage from gambling, we will see that it is negative for society. The worst is youth addiction in gambling. The tragic thing is that they are being destroyed in gambling citizens, and often we have tragic consequences. We have examples of great gambling gains, such as in particular in the early years of the Loutraki casino and the company, which I think were Jewish interests, actually swept through economies of naive and dependent citizens, closed down businesses, destroyed families. And what did the Greek state win? A small percentage of the lost properties were taken by the Municipality of Loutraki and by the state. Big profits left abroad. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, no state income restores the damage to society. Of course, these issues are issues of education, they are issues of culture and other political characteristics that our society needs to have. These general, so that gambling is not considered compatible with the political philosophy of the Left and Ecology. Now I come to this penalty. We're completing a process that you started and we found it unsolved. It seems that the second tender in terms of economics has had a better result, since the first one had a company and an amount of around 5 million, while the second two companies participated and the sum was 40,500,000. During the discussions in the committees proposals have been made and several improvements have come to this bill, improvements that could be made at that time. The improvement, which could have been made in relation to the amendment, was added to Article 2(7) for workers. I would like to refer to the rapporteur of the New Democracy who welcomed us to liberalism, because we are moving forward with the signing of this convention. Mr Colleague, you have exceeded liberalism, you are in neoliberalism and you and the whole of the European People's Party, the right-wing European party. For example, your positions on the promoted transatlantic trade agreement, the so-called TIP. You have taken a position - and this is the criterion of whether you are simply liberal or neoliberal - in favour of the TTIP agreement in the European Parliament, an agreement that destroys small and medium-sized enterprises and farms and leads to the immunity of multinationals and monopolies, without barriers, even for the mutants, which also arises in health issues. The fact that we are going to make some privatisations in the framework of the agreement does not bring us near ideologically to you. The distance is too long. Our policy does not match either insurmountable statism or market immunity. We will not privatise the EEAS, which you intended, neither the main PPC network nor national strategic areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u138	Don't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u139	It is a matter for us to lay down the rules governing the market and not to shape our institutions and our policies. Of course, we did not sit at the corner, as another section on the left blames us, waiting for the conditions for socialism to grow. We have decided to exalt situations and make sectoral and reforms to save what is being saved today and to change what we can change under the specific objective conditions and with the consent of the majority of the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr. Dimitras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, I would like the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u142	You have the floor, Minister. How many minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u143	I'll explain a piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u144	Good. I'll give you the time of three minutes and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u145	Thank you. As far as the legal improvement we have put forward at the end of Article 2(7) is concerned, I would like to say that, as requested, in the third series, which says "or all of this may be transferred by the administration of the IPO", the words "may" be deleted, in which case the proposal is "reported from the administration of the IPO to associated with the IPO" etc. So this is the deletion of two words in the legislative improvement. With regard to two amendments tabled, one, number 7, and number 7, relating to the extension of the date of winding-up and distribution, and the other has a general number of 8 and a specific number of 8, and the tax issues of natural persons when they have a joint ownership of up to five horses, and what happens with the persons insured in the OSCE, self-employed, coaches and other issues. These two amendments resolve these issues. As far as the amendments tabled are concerned, I should like to say that the amendment concerning the question of the Municipality of Marcopoulou cannot be accepted. I do not need to make any comment on any auction or attempts to impress. But I want to stay in the facts. At the moment, there is a preliminary decision of the Administrative Court of Athens, which recognizes a debt of 31 million against the DPO. The DPO together with the future clearer is currently legally evaluating this decision and what will happen with its insulting issues. At this stage and until an irreversible judicial decision has been adopted, there is no way that there can be any provision in this matter, because in this way we would be anticipating the judicial outcome of the decision. So the amendment on this issue cannot be accepted. As far as what has been said about the concession of land is concerned, I would like to repeat - I think the Minister told the committee - that the TEAPID has already proposed alternatives to the Markopoulou Municipality on this matter. At this point in time it does not appear possible to grant an area of the horse race, as the entire area has already been leased to the concessionaire. And in the demands for school issues, as you can see, it is not the best solution to build a school next to a horse racing space, but along with the WHO can find a better solution to these issues. It is therefore clear that the Government does not accept the amendments tabled by the three Members of Parliament, Mavroudi Voridis, George Vlao and Thanasis Bouras, with a general number of 5 and a special number 5 or the amendment tabled by the four Member States of the JRC under a general number 6 and a special number 6. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u146	You didn't explain it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The legislative improvement which has just been announced to be submitted and distributed, please, also to Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u148	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u149	Mr Vorides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, something should not normally be ruining a wonderful day today. Because there's something maiden about SYRIZA. And when something is first, it doesn't make us spoil the joy of the first time: privatisation on the left. We should not, therefore, have this micropsy. We should be encouraging, we should be encouraging, and we should be hoping then. Now, that there is a number of issues, there is a number of issues. For example, I am not convinced that contracts of this size - to which the sums are not so large - should be ratified in Parliament. I'm not convinced by legal arguments. I do not know where it stands, in specific provisions imposing ratification by Parliament of such conventions. The concessions you have referred to - we are now talking about huge contracts, in fact the motorway contracts - are very large and complex contracts, with great choices, with huge consequences, and economic and environmental, there is no ratio, there is no comparison. But the important thing is that I ask myself here every time - and I say this on the occasion of this particular convention - what is actually what Parliament, the Parliamentary House, is giving. What does the government want, the administration, every time we give it to her? In fact, we are not negotiating because it is part of the executive power. We do not have the power to bind the public in that sense, because the Minister of Finance is bound by it with his signature. So what are we coming here to do? In something that has already been negotiated, not only has it been negotiated, but it has been drawn up - because the convention is signed, so it has been completed - we are coming to give it the type of law. Why would the legislative delegation do that? In fact now, in order to speak to each other, one is the reason: there are possible responsibilities for the ministers behind this. It therefore becomes the House, without substantial intervention, co-responsibility and laundry. I'm not saying it's a practice that hasn't been followed. It has been followed, but I have also in the past criticised this particular practice. I think it's a bad practice. The administration must take its responsibilities, the government must take its responsibilities, it must look to be a good contract and not come to be covered by legislation in this House. Again, it's not SYRIZA's originality, to be fair here. It is a practice that has been followed, but it is not a good practice. Now, Mr Alexiadis, don't fight at all on the strategic issues of Officer Response. Not at all. When we say 'at all', you don't have to think about it a second. And why? I would consume, if I were you, my food essence to solve the big strategic issues of the government. Because, look - to use a nice expression, which is the favouriteness of a SYRIZA colleague - 'we don't have a lot of loot' and you don't deserve this from us. Furthermore, the fact that there has indeed been a recent crisis of the Greek people, which has sat you on the seat of the Government, does not mean that we will not discuss what the government does, unless you mean democracy as follows, that since you were elected, the opposition can leave and go to God's wish so that it does not bother you. I guess you don't mean that!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u151	We want the Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u152	Um, you want the opposition, Mr. Kurubli. I'm sure of it. That's why you as an old parliamentarian...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u153	We are excellent democrats.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u154	Like this. Bravo! So since you are entirely democrats, then you will have to resolve your own strategic issues. And no one can forget the contradictions. And no one can forget the proclamations. And no one can forget what you were saying until yesterday. But mostly - mostly! - Mr. Alexiadis, we can't ignore and overlook what's coming. Now you guys can overlook it? That's the point. Because you only have to read the budget that you will have to vote on. Can you overlook that? Can you overlook, for example, the cuts in the social budget by you left-wing people? Can you overlook what you hear from Mr. Katrugalo? Can you overlook that basically all of you have been undone? And I hear from Mr Tsakalotos - I heard it today - that you have, he says, a specific strategy. What's the strategy? Do you know her? Have you heard of her? Listen to what is their strategy: we will do, it says, the recapitalisation of the banks - congratulations, we are all agreed to do it, with the wish of God and the Virgin Mary and I hope we will - then absorb the ESDP programme - congratulations, this is development, I wish you could absorb it - and we will stabilise the economy. Does that sound like an Antonis Samaras program or not? Because that's exactly what Antony Samara's government said. Only he said without ruining seven months of the country, having turned the economy into a positive growth rate, having enlarged and started creating jobs. Don't move your head, because you'll get the following: You'll read the preliminary draft budget signed by Chakalotos and all that's in there. What I'm saying now and you're moving your head, I'll bring the draft, I have it in the bag to read it to you. So here there is no strategic contradiction between the New Democracy. There's an existential drama on the left of SYRIZA. We sympathize, sympathize, if we can help with something - in this, in the existential drama, not in anything else, not in policies - if we can help here, but all the rest you will do on your own. In Article 2 - the Minister left -...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u155	I'm here, to the president.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u156	Oh, he's close to us. I want you to hear it. I would just like to present the resolution of the Municipality of Marcopoulou. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Mavroudis Voridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You must respond, Minister, because the answer you have given me on the question of the arrangements you are doing in Article 2 is not convincing. I would like to make it clear that we are all clear and there is no question. Article 2 is not about privatization. It has nothing to do with privatisation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, can I have a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u157	Here you go, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u158	Thank you very much. It has nothing to do with privatisation. It has to do with the following: After the right to wager has been granted exclusively to the company for the horse betting, having been granted and leased, the spaces of Markopoulou's horse racing to make the races, after they have finished and the parties are TIADE on the one hand and the company, which won the race on the other, what is left to us? It's a shell called I.D.I.E.L.D. The O.R.D. doesn't have anything anymore. He has no right to racing. It essentially owns the property, which it has leased. That's all. The ownership of the property has some revenue and there is the question, rightly so, of its solution and liquidation. Ask first: Why do you need seven years for this? Why seven years? There is now no reason for a simple first-time liquidation to last seven years. I say hold one, if you want, two. We won't do it for seven years. What's he got to clean up? There's nothing. The assets are measured, the claims are measured, the things are clear. They're gonna end up eating all the money, the clearers over seven years. This will be done, as usual. Secondly, you do not want the enforcement process to proceed. Deal. Why do they not want the enforcement process? Because he tells you that if creditors speed up and end up going to auctions, they'll be devalued through the auctions, they'll have little values, and the lenders will be damaged. It's an argument, I hear it. But in paragraph 7 you are making a provision for those who already have a confiscation. And you say: Those who have a confiscation may - in order to lift this seizure - regulate them both from two-thirds to get something. I come and ask myself: I have an Otta, which is public, which has imposed compensation fees. An appeal was brought against the municipality, which, as you say, took a primary decision, but which is not a preliminary decision, it is an appeal decision which, as you know, is now being challenged only in the Council of State - and there is nothing else - and it is only for void reasons and not for substantive reasons, i.e. if there is a legal defect. In fact, the municipality has been justified. Be careful, those who are confiscated can be satisfied. The municipality, however, which has a decision of the Court of Appeal, cannot be satisfied. What for? You say: "Why does the DPRK intend to appeal to the Council of State." Refugee. Does the provision of 7 commit him to the amendment I am tabling? He doesn't commit. The Board of Directors of the ODR may, if it considers it to be the municipality, also pay the municipality. You don't want him to be able to do it, ladies and gentlemen? So, is the municipality going to the fifth ranking, whether there's an auction issue or in order for what's left of the auction when the liquidation is over, go with the common lenders, without any privilege? Isn't it public? The area has not suffered an environmental pressure, does it not provide services, has the municipality not collected garbage? Isn't he entitled to take these? Why do you not even give the possibility - as is possible - of the amendment that I am saying to you to accept - that is possible - that is the board of directors? Why don't you accept that? What's gonna happen to who? The OIE will not suffer anything, since privatisation is at its discretion, because it is a separate part of the solution and liquidation. I'm appealing. All Members of the Com mittee on Disarmament have taken a positive stand on this issue. This appeal has come from the Independent Greeks as well. I am sure that I will hear this appeal - I have heard it in part - and colleagues from SYRIZA. Now, in addition to the appeal, I think it would be useful. Since you really believe the amendment and the regulation we are saying in the way I make it, tell them that you will not vote on Article 2, because, if you do not tell them, they will not change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u159	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, Mr Kurublish asked to intervene for two minutes. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. I have listened very carefully to Mr Voridis, and I really want to say once again how easily we politicians are allowing our credibility to be praised, because we are encouraged by Mr Voridis for what his political position might have been, if he were more orthotectical, should have been different. I would like to say to him that we have raised very sincerely - and we have not fooled the Greek people, as happened in previous years - the issue we are discussing today. We have put them in the Greek people's crisis. The Greek people know the difficulties very well. No one is pleased about the measures we are calling on to vote on at this time, but there are two crucial issues for the country and home, which are the recapitalisation of banks and the debt negotiation. No one today doubts the Government's insistence that debt is unsustainable, when others were subject to pressure and said things that they did not believe - because I am sure they did not believe - that debt is sustainable. So this government has shaped a climate - I would venture to say - globally in economic circles that there is now a need to negotiate to regulate the Greek debt. Since then, where there are two objectives that I think we all recognise that, once we have achieved, there will be a change in the climate and investment and development in the country, it is hypocritical for people who want to have a public say, for people who have voted for these measures, for the agreement, now to take lessons about what is left, etc. We know very well what is left and our political path to social issues is well known. We are all suffering right now and we are all struggling for the difficulty of the situation. We are not pretending to the Greek people, we are not suddenly revolutionaries. We're people who live the pulse and the anguish of society. We're all going to this effort together, because above all of us is to get the country out of this crisis. And we will take Greece out of this crisis, ladies and gentlemen. This is also the big bet of Alexis Tsipras and the SYRIZA - ANEL government. And of course we call on you to join in this effort - it is worth our homeland - to make a personal overrun of everyone and everyone together. These thoughts, Mr President, I would like to take the time you have given me to table and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before giving the floor to the next speaker, which is Mr Katsikis, I would like to make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and the Standing Committee on Production and Trade deposit their Report to the draft Law of the Minister of State: "Authorisation of providers of digital TV broadcasting on the ground - Establishment linked to ERT SA. anonymity company for the development of a digital terrestrial broadcasting network - Arrangement of themes of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts (E.T.) - National Communication Policy, Organisation of Communications Diplomacy - Establishment of a National Centre for Audiovisual Media and Communications and a Register of Electronic Media Enterprises - Amendment of provisions of Law 4070/2012 (Government A' 82) and other provisions. Mr Katsikis Konstantinos has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by something said by the Minister of the Interior, Mr Kurublés, that we must all contribute to getting Greece out of the crisis. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Indeed, Minister, we need to get Greece out of the crisis, but part of Greece is also the local government, for which you were sensitive to the multi-brand plan which was discussed and voted a few days ago to make an interpretative statement so that they do not fall under the provisions of Article 13, to that multi-branded project, but to exclude companies and concessionaires from exempting the payment of municipal fees. I believe that this will be the case - to close the parentheses I have opened - an integral part of Article 13, so that local government can be facilitated in the collection of its revenue. In the same way, I would like to ask for Article 2 of paragraph 2 as a follow-up to Article 13 of Law 4111/2013, which starts the first phase of the liquidation of the public limited liability company, following which we are called upon to ratify the contract in our debate tonight, by voting for paragraph 2 of Article 2, according to which the local government is again deprived of revenue owed to it by "WIPO S.A.", since paragraph 2 suspends the execution of such acts and judgments for seven years. And if it really takes seven years to make a liquidation, then - believe me - it is much less time to make an irrevocable final decision, which invokes the sum of 62 billion euros from the FIFG to the City of Marcopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u163	Not billions, millions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u164	Millions, excuse me. Thank you for the correction. Therefore, even if we are still waiting for the judgment of the Ice Bay - of course the right of the GOI and of the OHIM is to appeal - the court ruling of the appeal court will be examined, which - I repeat - is final in terms of the formality and the rules governing the judicial procedure which it has adopted in its own decision. Therefore, the substance will not intervene to change something. So the money is due. The time that has to be attributed, if it is really time for up to seven years, what we will obviously be able to achieve is that the liquidation process and the new concessionaire has been misused, bankrupt, sold the company or changed its financial situation, so that local government does not take the money. And when I speak of local government, Mr. Minister, dear Mr. Alexiadis, I speak only of one municipality, the City of Marcopoulou. The Municipality of Marcopoulou, and out-of-court, with a good compromise, would like to solve this problem by making an enticing proposal, reducing its claims by 85% - and this would allow me to transfer it to this House - and, of course, limiting its claims to 3% only, which concerns fifty acres, in order to make use of them for public benefits and other projects for the benefit of its fellow citizens and its citizens. To conclude, I should like to stress at this point that it is important not to be indignant about the indignation of local societies, which are aware that the constitutionally guaranteed autonomy of local government bodies is affected, that the principle of good administration and the principle of decisions of judicial authority is affected. I would say that it could be achieved, even at the last minute, Minister, a legislative improvement which would significantly reduce the time of the seven years, as stated in this provision, in one or two years' time, in terms of only local government and in this case in the Municipality of Marcopoulou. In these two years, the Marios Ice would have also ruled, provided that this final decision of the administrative court is brought to an end. The problem would have been clear and the performance process of the debtors would have begun in much shorter time, so that the legitimate and fair requirement of the Municipality of Markopoulos in terms of the amount which - I said and repeat - would have been justified by a very tempting compromise that would have met both sides. In the hope that I will be heard, Mr Minister, and that you will make this legislative improvement of time from seven years to one to two years, it will also prove to me that I am convinced that the fairness of your crisis and the handling of things in a difficult parliamentary work and the exercise of your duties as Finance Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, too. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Madam President. The contract currently being discussed in the Greek Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, was not on the list of privatizations that you, as SYRIZA, had electionally developed. But he comes in the way he comes. We agree on the content of Article 1. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group has so far been placed on the table for Article 2. Mr Diaras said that it is not compatible with the ideology, the philosophy of the Left, your full reference to gambling. Profit cannot be balanced with gambling addiction, especially the one that leads youth to gambling.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u167	Do you disagree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u168	No, of course not. I fully agree. But you then came to say that you found a contract, the terms of which you were able to improve, and because there was a profit from improving the terms, you accepted it and you are bringing it here today to the vote. So addiction as far as youth is concerned no longer applies, because it overpowered the gain for you too, as you yourself mentioned. As regards, of course, the liberalism and neoliberalism you were addressing to my colleague in a proper manner - I mean the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Dimas - I would like to say to you that since 2012 that I have been in here, I have been constantly following this constant urbanisation of yours. I see that you have exceeded us, not liberalism, but neoliberalism, and that is an issue that needs to be addressed to you. I say this to my colleague, Mr Papachristopoulos, because he said 'do not refer to pensions, insurance funds' and to all of this. I would like to say, Mr Papachristopoulos, that the Minister for Labour has referred to the integration of supplementary pensions in the sense of abolition. There are these two billion reserves of the funds, but also those of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies, of the managers, for which you have just brought the relevant regulation before us the day before yesterday. It was an election that not only would the provision on the creation of professional funds apply to them, but that you will proceed with a provision that will remain in the current system. Not only did you not go into this - the preservation of their present status - not only did you forbid their professional orientation with regard to the funds, since they have gone into studies, but you are driving them too - if you wish - in that 'hell' to strengthen your efforts in order to enable them to be integrated - I believe for a period of time. In order that, in this way, you can temporarily satisfy the society or the sense of insecurity that will hold all of us in terms of their pension future. And of course I would like to believe that you will not proceed with the full privatisation of health, because that is what is being attempted. That is why tomorrow, Madam President, there is a pandraminic, because the Drama Hospital is closing. If you think that you can privatise health too, I inform you that this is not going to happen, because in particular in those parts of the country that are falling, public health for them is the greatest social asset and in no case will you tolerate or accept such a position in terms of privatising health.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr. Cryazides. Mr. Leventis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u170	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if we make a reduction in the past and say that we want a left-wing party to privatise the horse race, we will go crazy. I guess you have no objection. Because the Left has always been contrary to the privatizations. Now, how did it change, it's another matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u171	We will say whether or not we object.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u172	Many SYRIZA Members come out and say 'we are blackmailing and that is why we are going through these measures'. It is not nice to call it Greek MPs, in my opinion, that we are blackmailing - because there is also the way to go home if it is blackmailed. Extortion doesn't fit the MEP's post, in my humble opinion. And here we have many confessions that you're blackmailing and passing and you're voting for bills that you don't want, they're imposing them on you. What forces are they imposing them? And why until first when the right-wing party imposed them, were you being told by girdles? To tell them their point, because in the many inconveniences that the right-wings say, they have a few trials.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u173	Not girdles, Mr. President. I wish they'd call us pigeons. We'd be happy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u174	All right, there was another precedent added, which I don't want in the House to mention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u175	That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u176	However, it is steep that a left party is fighting to privatise everything and by emergency procedures. Emergency, emergency, I don't know what you call them. It's a good wonder! Have you explained this to yourself why it's done? Is it so the country won't leave the euro? Back when the Right did the same, why were they traitors? If the same thing were invoked, 'that the country will not leave the euro', that is why they have proposed to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u177	We wanted to stay in the euro.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u178	These are historical questions which, if you do not answer them, will lack credibility in Parliament and there will be no respect for the world. I tell you so you know, because I go back to the cafeterias and they say, "Because you're Vassilis Leventis, we accept you. If SYRIZA comes here, if the New Democracy comes, they'll both be beaten." Also, the other crime New Democracy does is that while voting before the elections on all these things, because the country should not leave the euro now does not vote on them. So from a whim, from a opposition whim has stopped giving consent. They don't answer that either. I mean, there's the understanding of the deaf in here! Because it is a friendly climate and you are few in this Chamber, I will say that I still cannot get used to the fact that only the right-wings applaud the right - and the speaker sits down - only the left-wings applaud the left - only the hoods applaud the representative of the JRC. It is, in other words, one thing like talking about foreign languages, like having seven or eight parties, and having eight foreign languages, Chinese,corps. The horns applaud the horning, the others theirs, and so there are eight different foreign languages, no consultation. Our parliamentary representative, Mr Carras, told me that in the other bill discussing television licences, because the Minister agreed not only to remove the licence but to be after a reasoned recommendation from the PSE, he accepted this as a good concession from the Minister. Because the Minister first made his whisper. The question is, since the EPP appoints it again party...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u179	It's not like that. It shall be made by a majority of 4/5, by the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u180	You don't? I wish, we'll see. We'll see. Don't rush. The composition of the PSE will be seen and it will be seen if it is credible and objective. In other words, the Minister made a concession, taking into account the opinion of a Council which is about to appoint. I don't know what kind of concession this is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u181	It is institutional, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u182	No, no. We'll see, though. Do not rush, because I know that there are second opinions, party and fanatical, which are undoing and any climate of consensus can be created in this Chamber. That's what I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u183	Mr President, that is why they do not accept all the nine points you have said to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u184	Yes, sir. We'll see the nine points. Why, did you accept the nine points?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u185	You didn't give it to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u186	There is a total rejection of the nine points of the Centro Association from this Chamber. Do you know why there's a complete rejection? Because the nine points if they are implemented, the party armies and elites cease to have privileges. Your presence in this Chamber is due to the prerogatives of the elite, which you have created first. Let's explain now. The nine points will not be accepted, dear - I do not remember your name - from any wing of the House, because all the wings of the House have their own armies, their own children and want to protect them, and that is why the country went bankrupt. There must be a debate in Greece because the country has gone bankrupt. Now, let's go back to the essence of whether the racetrack has to be sold, which has already been sold, that is, we're just going to get the sales certificate now. I knew we were going to sell the deficits, but - he says - because the deficits aren't sold - who's gonna get the deficits? - We took the fillets off. Good, good Members of the Greek Parliament! Bravo! I knew that as a matter of years ago, when we were selling something, it was selling the deficits, the ones that created deficits in the state, but because there were no buyers for the deficits, we came to sell the "fillets". And the Left comes, whose President - who is not here, but fortunately there are remarkable ministers who replace him - when he took over the President of SYRIZA, he went on to say so - to privatize the port, when he was being prosecuted at the Piraeus Court and as the pioneer of a group of Syrians, he said: "We will not allow any privatisation to take place here - there is the video - and I am a guarantee, Tsipras". And if I'm not mistaken, has it been voted on? Does it matter my speech now? There is no point in it, because with the numerical dictatorship that exists in this House, no vote will be taken today. Is there going to be a vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u187	It's gonna be over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u188	Is there going to be a vote now? Because I see everyone's gone. Who's going to vote? Will the shadows vote? Will the empty benches be voted for? Who's going to vote in here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u189	The rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u190	Don't tell me such things now, 'cause people are listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u191	We have the declared, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u192	He's with the Protestant Authority, of course. After SYRIZA rules, there's no need for votes. That's right. I understand that. In any case, the same logic will exist in the other. To sell everything, to sell the Greek, to sell the beach of Vuliagmenos until Sounio, to sell everything. All 50 billion pledged, which means that if the country is inconsistent with its obligations, they will take land this time. The land of our children, this land you have promised, has been subjugated by the signature of Mr. Tsipras. So what are we doing here? We're selling it all. And what will our children have tomorrow? In other words, we were neither worthy of lottery nor of keeping them in the state, which are two things that could primarily be profitable. That's not even what we managed to keep in the state! Imagine how incompetent we will prove to the ERT and the new ERT, because the new ERT is also a house of debauchery. Don't doubt it. One or two times I went, the same thing is mentality. It's the old one. I didn't see a change of attitude. Therefore, we will maintain all the state that will be in deficit and the need to sell them will arise. There will be no one to buy these deficits. ERT can only close, can't be sold. It doesn't interest anyone to buy it. She'd have a little value on her file. The ERT file would have some value historical, not economic. But, in any case, I wonder where the country is going, ladies and gentlemen. Left has become right. Right is left when it's in Antipopulation. Right is left, because if you ask now the four candidates who go this way and talk, they say they need Center and Right. I don't understand who's going to eat this sandwich 'and centre and right'? The Centre shall mean consensus, consultation and dialogue. And the right what does it mean? It means a turbulence, a return to ghosts, etc. How these ghosts will match and dialogue is their problem for the four new candidates to deal with. But the view of this Left is also afflicting me. I'm going to Germany tomorrow. I've been invited by Bairu, by the Frenchman. You know who Bairu is. He took 17 percent in France. What can I tell them? Let me tell them we have a left very beautiful and a right very beautiful. That's what I'm gonna say. [[This is where the ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Union of Centres is ringing.]] Except that you know that the news is spreading, that it goes beyond the boundaries of Greece and that you're all known. That's what you know. The left left forgot the simple analogue, which was her main request and sells the racetrack. That's what I'll tell them. And the Right has four candidates who are all four king-in-laws and extremists. Whatever they get out of there is gone. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for listening to me. I don't know if you like my style. I know you won't applaud.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u193	This for the “kings” to get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u194	How? You're not? I take it back, as long as you're not. I take it, as long as you guarantee me you're not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u195	All right, Mr. Leventis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u196	Isn't that right? Because, you know, "first cousins" are among them some things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u197	And we could say a few things about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u198	Oh, of course!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Mada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u200	I mean, he can't marry the Center... Because I've been listening for a lifetime for Central Right and Central Left. Where's the Center?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u201	Left-wing center.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u202	All right, Mr. Leventis. Sit down, Mr. Cryazides, now. We won't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u203	They're chewing the same pasadebo. Anyway, I'm sorry. As long as you do not feel the way I have said and your actions do not confirm me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u204	That's right. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u205	Mr. Mada, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u206	I have ten minutes, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Madam President, it was a debate today - it is almost closed - I do not know if any other colleague will speak - who, although starting from the committee with limited interest, as we had confined ourselves to the draft law on the FIFG, seems to have taken a larger extent in the House, as is usually the case - that is not unusual - and there was a pot - a cigar, I would say, of the news, with various peaks, with various concerns, etc. I have, of course, listened very carefully to all the colleagues who speak here and to the President, Mr Leventis. There are many things that one can agree on - not only with you, Mr President, I mean with other colleagues - and many things that we can disagree with. However, I think that in order to understand what is going on - and I address all my fellow Members - it is not enough for a narrow picture that just takes place from time to time, which may refer to major problems, such as insurance, but is doing so in a way, in my opinion, superficial and shallow. I am not saying that, on our side, there are always some reasons for this. I don't claim that thing. I want to be honest. However, let us see, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening at this time, to see the great picture, namely. That's what I'm calling on. Let's see the big picture. And because there is terrible anguish in many respects that suddenly SYRIZA, his MPs, the party, the people who supported and supported this great project in our country,'metalized', 'transformed','registered', I do not know what else we did, there is an exceptional anxiety for that, I think that there is something else and not a genuine anguish that - supposedly - we are losing our left identity and sacrifices and there. Because, ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that, with the closure of the agreement on 14 August, after very hard work - as much as you do in your speech - which has reached its limit, which has put the world within this effort with the historic decision on the referendum of 5 July, a development that obviously has contradictions and has problems, but has a basic line that must not be forgotten. And the basic line, ladies and gentlemen, is that we put a red line in these specific connections, one direction in how we get out of this very big crisis, which many forget how it started, exactly what form it took in our country, what the policies that have been followed all these years have been. And it is true that at this particular juncture many things really fall together or - to say so - many bombs are digging in our hands. Why don't you tell me, for example, that the national health system was suddenly dissolved within seven months, or education was dissolved within seven months or the social state was dissolved within seven months. You know very well - and I can prove this, especially for the national health system - how the human resources process was developing. Because this is the crucial issue, and for which there has been no provision and no policy for many years to anticipate this situation. We are therefore in difficulties, we are in critical problems. The insurance is one of them, and it's too big. We must not blame it and blame the debate within a very short period of time. I, too, know the knowledge of many of my fellow Members and the approach of many of my fellow Members on this subject. But I don't think we should blame it on all sides. We need to discuss this seriously, because it's a serious problem in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u207	You're talking about health.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u208	Don't interrupt me because I want to be in my time. Therefore, as much as you are trying to recruit us in the area of radical liberalism, as I heard Mr Staikora saying this morning that it is your ideology - I do not really know what it is exactly or how it will end up after the process that you have within your party, which we respect - I want to say to you that it is a barren effort. Don't go on. When I return to the big picture, I want to say that sometimes - and history has shown this many times - if you really want to walk a difficult way from the left perspective, you will also make painful compromises. And we're just at this stage. And we must be absolutely honest with the world we want and we are trying to represent. And after this very difficult effort, we are in a phase where there are real problems, difficulties, issues with many social groups or social strata, which we want to represent. However, we have a stigma - and you cannot question that - and the budget. And we'll develop it the way it takes. We have already said so at the committee's morning meetings. We will say this tomorrow even more emphatically. You do not mean to understand some things, for example, the most crucial, that it is very different to try to intervene in a different way in budgetary adjustment, it is very different not to have any primary surpluses at these heights that you had. And that's not the result of the recession in the economy. It's different, and we'll have time to talk about it. I'm going straight to the bill in the one minute left. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If you want to give me one more minute. I mean, I think it's a common place that we didn't negotiate. He obviously has problems. I think we have corrected an important problem with the amendment for the workers. I think we're giving an answer to that. We probably do not give the answer that many wings, as I see, would like to see, about the problem with the Marcopoulou Municipality. I think the Minister gave a clear answer. I do not want this step to say nor to try to force less or more. I think that in a realistic and careful way we are moving in this process. There are many arguments to support this. I heard the rest. Mr Vorides and other colleagues from the opposition have said so. I don't think we can do anything else right now. That's clear. It is a concession for twenty years which, I think, at this stage of the WIPO, Mr President, Mr Leventis, is a beneficial way out of this particular phase. Because - and I'm ending with what I'm about to say - it's not just the OHIM. There are many State interventions, many decades back from the EOT, from what happened in state gambling, from many such decades after a number of phases, especially in the 2000s, to slowly depreciate themselves, to lose the ability to profit, to get inside the public and finally to put the carpet to privatization. And one last thing, we do not change our view that privatisations de and well are the solution to the problem of either debt or the problem of the economy. After all, I would remind my dear fellow Members that the objective we had, the 50 billion, has become much more limited not over our days, but also over the days of the previous government. This is therefore an issue that is currently taking the turn it is taking. We have agreed on some privatisations made by the HICP, and we will respect this and move on. It is a big issue of the Public Property Certification Fund. We will discuss this in detail in Parliament too. However - because this paper, as you know, has fallen to the table at the last minute by Shoeble - it is and will be - and in that direction we will fight, it is from the open-ended issues, we have said it during the election period, and we also ask for the contribution of all the parties in this House - that this fund is not, like the TIPID, which was only selling or selling - or I do not know, it can say many criticisms about it - but it is a fund that at least one part of it will be able to operate towards both the side and the investment and possibly on the side of social security. This will be our effort and I think we will have time to discuss this in detail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u209	It is the Minister's last speech, Mr Alexiadis, and the vote will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u210	Madam President, those who want from the rapporteurs can take a second step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u211	No, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u212	Well, I just want to take a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u213	Well, I'll give you the floor for two minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u214	Then we'll have the seconds first and then the Minister will talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u215	Normally that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u216	I too want to speak, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u217	Now whoever wants to talk. Not because we asked each other to ask for all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u218	...right there is. As far as the amendment of the Communist Party of Greece is concerned, we had no doubt that you would accept a philosophical solution for workers on one day's contracts for several years. I say this because the government's amendment concerns only permanent officials. However, we did not hear the reason for the rejection, and you did reason for the other amendments. Nor did we get an answer to the questions we asked. I hope that the Minister will respond with the closure. Secondly, it was said in the Chamber that there would be no sanctions for contracts. I am not saying that the government says so, although the law has been read and the ratifications are well done. However, I would like to say the position of the Communist Party that we are in favour of the fact that sanctions for contracts are being heard, that the ordinary world learns the terms, the conditions, the effects on workers, how capital is favored in its profitability, how the parties vote, so that they understand how they have to fight this policy. Finally, Minister, the New Democracy - PASOK - River - does not have a strategic deficit. It is simply their strategy that the current SYRIZA - ANEL government operates. Proof that today's bill goes against you. They're just having a separating line problem, and that's obvious.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Dimas has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u220	I'll be very brief. I have listened with great interest both to the Minister and to the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA. We did not receive a reply, Minister, on the question that in the regular budget you have estimated the revenues of EUR 2 billion from privatizations for 2016. We have the statement, as I said, from the President of the GIDE, Mr Pitsirla, who says that we will not achieve this objective. I would like your answer to that. I asked you, too, from the Step of the House. Maybe because you were talking on the phone, maybe because you wanted to accuse Officerial Response's strategy of being forgotten and not answering. However, I would also like to see an answer to the question raised by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative regarding the establishment of the fund. Firstly, where will the money of 50 billion and secondly, what percentage of this money go to serve public debt and what percentage will it go for investment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u221	The Minister has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u222	I will respond from here, Madam President, and I will be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u223	Wherever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u224	I think that the government has answered all the issues and everyone can well or badly be in any position. All the questions have been answered and we will be able to discuss everything in detail in the next bills and in the budget. It is not possible today - and in the short time available - to answer all the issues that have been raised in detail, and once again we see that they were not concerned with the bill. And while you are asking the government to answer the bill, the Qualified Opposition talks about all the other issues that have been answered and regained the same tape. Respectful, though. In relation to the bill, I will give some answers. First of all, the bill has been filed in Parliament since the end of June. Unfortunately, the issues that we had with the referendum and other political developments did not allow for a more rapid debate to be held. We are not saying that everything is perfect, but we are responding to the specific problems with specific policies. In relation to the WIPO workers, very good words have been heard - crocodile tears have been shed - and too many formalities. Two minutes, to understand, we're proud of what's been going on up to the OHIM so far? So, the people who have been running Greece for so many years, from the New Democracy, the PASOK, and from the Potami, are satisfied with what was happening in the OSCE?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u225	When did we rule?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u226	Is everything that was done at the FDI, with the routing of the administrations, on the day-to-day contracts, what you want to bring back? Because what you're asking is for SYRIZA to leave the government, go out and do what you did again. It didn't sound like a word of self-criticism. You go out all the time and you say that SYRIZA in February did this, that, the other one. What did you do from 1974 to 2015? Not a word of self-criticism!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u227	We did, but if we're gonna wait another forty years, we're gonna do it again...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u228	I didn't hear your self-criticism. If you did it internally, as some parts of the Left make it, you'll end up in numerical terms. Watch out for that. As far as I am concerned, however, I have not heard the general debate. So what were we supposed to do? Was the DEAD profitable? Should it be maintained? Was it a public cost? Are there any responsibilities to which some should have been brought - I am going to say it again - to special courts - that they have led the IPO and a number of other undertakings in this situation? You blamed us for not being modest. If Tsipras left us free and didn't tell us we had to be modest and humble, what we'd say in here and what would happen... But we don't want to do this thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u229	You said it before. You talked about it in 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u230	You were saying something, Mr. Parliamentary Representative. But because you said many times about the phone, I had to talk on the phone because it's a difficult day today. It's not polite of you to interrupt underneath. Anyway. [[Enter the text of the bill p. 235a]] There is a huge political issue on the subject of the ILO, therefore. Those who led things here now come to those who go to solve and deal with these problems, to criticize them for what they do. Yes, make criticisms of us. Are you going to be self-criticistic about where you led us? With regard to the issues of the Municipality of Markopoulos, there must certainly be a dialogue between the representatives of the municipality and the Ministry of Finance. We also have to deal with these issues that exist and do not end today, and the other issues of the wider region and the pressure that the municipality accepts. I will contribute as much in this area as I can in the area of competence as I am to help, because the issue of the ILO is not my responsibility. In relation to the issue that has been raised on the issue of liquidation time, this proposal has been examined. But it cannot be adopted. The seven-year period is considered absolutely necessary for the liquidator to have sufficient time to organise the operation and to be able to repay part of all the Agency's liabilities. Otherwise, if we do this earlier, we're at risk with other situations. Finally, as many speakers have often wanted to bring back the issues of ENPIA, taxation etc., I am making it clear to my ever-increasing friend and an old trade unionist, Yannis Brutsis, that from L.4336, the agreement that was passed in Parliament, until L.4337, we have not charged H.V.I.A., nor with one minute. What happened in the past to talk about it. Because of the EUR 600 million that we were paying for real estate, with ENPIA, we went to EUR 3.3 billion. Well, SYRIZA can't be accused, because he's going to do some issues on these issues. With regard to tax policy issues in general, however, the figures do not show any catastrophe or all that you are trying to illustrate. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u231	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned: "Following the Convention on the grant of the exclusive right to organise and make a reciprocal bet on horse racing in Greece for a period of 20 years". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u232	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u233	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u234	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u235	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u236	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u237	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u238	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u239	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u240	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Under the Convention on the grant of the exclusive right to organise and hold a reciprocal bet on horse races in Greece for a period of 20 years’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on the articles. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u241	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u242	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u243	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u244	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u245	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u246	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u247	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u248	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u249	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u250	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u251	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u252	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u253	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u254	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u255	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u256	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u257	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u258	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 7 and a special number 7 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u259	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u260	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u261	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u262	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u263	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u264	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u265	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u266	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u267	The amendment, by a general number 7 and a special 7, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 2 of the draft law. Does this House accept the amendment under a general number 8 and a special number 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u268	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u269	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u270	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u271	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u272	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u273	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u274	Sustained, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u275	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u276	The amendment, by a general number 8 and a special 8, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 2 of the draft law. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u277	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u278	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u279	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u280	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u281	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u282	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u283	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u284	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u285	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Following the Convention on the Enforcement of the exclusive right to organise and hold a reciprocal bet on horse races in Greece for a period of 20 years’ was accepted in principle on articles and amendments by majority vote. Do you accept at this point that we shall vote on the bill as well as on the whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u286	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u287	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u288	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u289	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u290	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u291	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u292	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u293	Accepted, accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u294	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u295	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance ‘Statement of the Convention for the Enforcement of the exclusive right to organise and make a reciprocal bet on horse races in Greece for a period of 20 years’ was accepted in a single debate on the principle, the articles and the amendments as a whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u296	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u297	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-10-21-S1-commons.u298	With the consent of the House at 22.50 minutes the sitting will be closed for tomorrow Thursday, Thursday, 22 October 2010 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate and (b) legislative work in accordance with the agenda distributed.
