ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Special session of Parliament on the adoption of a decision of the Greek Parliament on Palestine, in the presence of the President of Palestine, Mr Mahmoud Abbas. Within a short time the President of the Greek Parliament will come to the Chamber, accompanying President Mahmoud Abbas. Until they arrive, do you accept to interrupt the sitting in order to welcome the Bureau to our guest?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. We are adjourning the sitting here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs proposes that Parliament should adopt a draft Special Decision on Palestine in plenary. The draft is as follows: The Greek Parliament, invoking the constant commitment of the Greek people to peace, security and prosperity in the region of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East, invoking the resolution of 29 November 2012 of the UN General Assembly, which recognised in Palestine the status of a non-Member State - observer, invoking Resolutions on the recognition of a Palestinian State adopted by national parliaments - Member States of the European Union, as well as the Resolution of the European Parliament of 17 December 2014, with particular concern the interruption of the peace process between Israelis and Palestinians, finding with particular concern the escalation of tension and violence in the region, emphasizing the urgent need for Israeli settlement, underlining the right of the Palestinian peoples and the Palestinians to live in peace and security, recognizing all forms of repression, violence and terrorism, underlining the urgent need for the Israeli settlement of two Israeli settlements, undermining the sovereignty and independence of the Palestinian Governments, by emphasing the urgent need for a lasting repression of two repressive principles of the Palestinian repression of the upholding of the Palestinian repression of the Palestinian republicstaliencies and the Palestinianstalignouries and Palestinians, emigrations, emigration of the republics, emigration of the Palestinians, in the republics, emigration of the repressing of the republics, emigration of the repressing of the repression of the repression of the repression of the repression of the Greek repression of the Greek repression of the totalitancy of the Greek repression and repression of the two repression and the totalitonsonst of the Greek repression of the republicstraying of the repression of the repression of the repression of the repression of the repression of the repression of the repression of the repression of the repression of the repression of the repression of the repression of the repress of the repression of the repression of the repressive faction of the repression of the repression of the republic of the repression of the Palestinians of the repression of the former Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask those who accept the proposal very much to rise. [[All Members of Parliament shall be raised.]] The House approved the decision. [[At this point, all Members applaud strongly and protractedly]] The decision was unanimous at the moment and as far as I know and from all the wings of the House this decision had been prepared. Ladies and gentlemen, at 11.00 hours in the Senate Hall, President Mahmoud Abbas, at the address of the President of the Standing Committee, will speak to us about all their visions, thoughts and ideas and their course in this long struggle that we too have experienced for these decades. In this special Senate event will be chaired by the First Vice-President of the House, Mr. Kourakis. Thank you very much. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S1-commons.u5	With the consent of the House at 10.50 p.m. the sitting is closed for Tuesday, December 22, 2015, at 12.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's legislative work, according to the agenda that has been distributed to you.
