ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. In other words, it is not the case that the Commission has not yet taken a position on REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis, to read the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u2	New Democracy MP Mr. Ioannis Vroutsis reports to the Ministries of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, Education and Religious Affairs, according to which Mayor Serifos protests to exclude the youth of Serifos from sport following the sealing of sports facilities on the Serifos Football Stadium. SYRIZA MEP Kostas Zacharias submits a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, according to which a citizen with the right to use a wheelchair pavilion located on the border of the Municipality of Amarousi calls for the possibility of accessibility of disabled persons at this stand, as provided for by the ‘universal design’ for disabled persons at the n. Regulation (EC) No 2831/2000. The MPs of SYRIZA Mr Dimitrios Gakis, Nektarios Santorinios and Ilias Kamaeros refer to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, according to which Mayor Leipson, by letter, stresses the need for direct management of the Municipality of Leipzig with regular staff. The Member of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides presents a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, according to which the Construction Cooperative of Officials of Public Works and Agriculture "The Panorama" calls for the declassification of the land in order to distribute it. Mr Spyros Danellis presents reference to the Ministries of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Economic and Home Reconstruction, according to which the National Federation for the Rights of the Autonomous Spectrum makes proposals on the draft law "Measures for the Relief of UAAs, the simplification of the operation of Disability Certification Centres (CEPA), the fight against tax evasion and related insurance". Mr. Kyriakos Charakides is reporting to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, according to which the Management Body of the National Park Rodopi Mountains calls for measures to be taken to address the pollution effect in the Nestos River. SYRIZA MP Dimitrios Rizzos submits a report to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religion that the Second ELME Evros, the Evros Secondary Education Department and the Educational Primary Education Association Orestiad applicants for the establishment and operation of the Second Primary and Secondary Education Directorate in the area of Northern Evros and the amendment of a Ministerial Decision on the "Determining of Secondary Education Areas" in relation to the transfer areas of the Prefecture of Evros. The MP of SYRIZA Mr.ZANNA submits a petition to the Ministry of Finance requesting the possibility of issuing a transfer certificate following the accession of a hundred instalments, on the basis of the relevant provision of the law, the IX Exploration of a vehicle from its property, following the process of retirement by the OAU (TSA). SYRIZA MP Mr.Kissos Hadjilambrou submits a report to the Ministry of National Defence that the Workers' Association of the Greek Defence Systems of Egypt (formerly EBO) requests rapid recruitment of technical and labour personnel through ASP, covert production lines so that the company is able to carry out the few contracts that have been left, the non-continuation of the tenders aimed at "employers' rented workers" in storage and cleaning, the closure of the contractors, while the company is able to build everything, from ammunition to weapon systems. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Stefanos Gikas presents a report to the Ministry of Finance that hoteliers and rented companies of the Ionian are applying for equal treatment in VAT, as in the Aegean islands. The MP of SYRIZA Mr.Ioannakis presents a report to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs that the Director of the National Observatory of Athens highlights the problems of the Geodynamic Institute of the National Observatory of Athens. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr George Vlachos presents a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, according to which the Historical and Folklore Society of Acharon (ILEA), the Hellenic Mountain Association (E.O.S.). Acharon), the Citizen Movement for the promotion of Ancient Theatre of Acharnon, the Philosophy Club of Acharnon and the Group of Friends of the Municipal Gallery of Acharnon "Christos Chevas" present proposals on the project of the Joint Ministerial Decision (KYA) for the development of the former royal Tatoi Buildings. Potamis MP Spyros Danellis submits a report to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, according to which citizen highlights the unpleasant situation that has arisen with the relocations of students from the Architecture School of VTG. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Stefanos Gikas presents a report to the Ministry of Finance that the Chamber of Finance of Greece, 16th Regional Department of Ionian Islands, is required to cover vacant organic positions of the Corfu Customs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, the reports have been read out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u4	We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the third with No 353/15-6-2015 top-level question of the first-round question of the Achaea MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Michael Arvanitis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on "with regard to violations of the Constitution and the laws by the Mayor of Patras". The Minister will answer Mr. Nikolaos Voutsi. My colleague, Mr Arvanitis, has the floor to start for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on 9-6-2015, the Mayor of Patras sent a circular to all the anti-Majorists and to all the presidents of services of the municipality, namely the number 2490/70160, expressing the desire - a directive not to serve, when they seek public documents, the Members of the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group. At the same time, it despises the ten thousand Achaius voters who, when they want to apply for public documents, which are not the property of the mayor, neither can the anti-Cypriots nor the other presidents of the municipal services grant them. Of course, he is not a lawyer, but he did not have to be the Mayor of Patras - and I am not saying Fathers, because he is not Fathers, he is Fathers - to know that he has made a number of violations of provisions and the Criminal Code, but also of the Constitution itself. It has, first of all, infringed the principle of misuse of powers, secondly, the provision relating to the infringement of a duty and thirdly, the provision - and it is being prosecuted - relating to slandering. Finally, all these gentlemen just watch TV? They don't ask anyone? Don't they have a wide-ranging mind? Bring themselves into a judge's place? Who told them they had the right to stand trial? Secondly and above all, in breach of the provisions of Article 4(1) and (2) of the Constitution, where it says that all Greeks are equal before the law, all Greeks have the same rights and obligations, despite us. What right does this gentleman and any other gentleman, who is not a gentleman, say that we, a legitimate parliamentary party, do not have the same rights and obligations as all Greek citizens? Why does he despise the representatives of the nation? Why can I not doubt that we are legal representatives of the nation? Not even the Rules of Procedure of the House have escaped from seeing whether we are representatives of the nation or not, and whether we have every right to request a public document, which is not one of their personal property. And because of that, of course, some of your government ministers and some other than you, Minister, who refuse to answer our questions, whether written or written, in this sense unacceptable and incomprehensible statement, are opposed to constitutional and parliamentary institutions. Where is that and I don't know that? Please tell me to study it. That's the point. And I ask you, Minister, to tell me what measures you intend to take against the outdated mayor. And I hope that the competent prosecutor, because the first two offences are persecuted on his own initiative, will do his job if he is not afraid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u6	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Seligman, in fact the mayor, without clearly denying that you are entitled to all the facilities and access to which you have referred, has sent a political text to his services, which says that he does not wish to support in any way the political action of your party. It is a political position and responsibility, taken by the mayor, who is, of course, in the judgment of both citizens and public opinion, the public space in general. One could actually write down the ways in which one exists. And they exist under the applicable law of Kallikratis, in Article 233. If there is a question of breach of duty, there is the question of disciplinary penalties, which the verifier imposes, etc. There is a whole context in which one might refer to this issue. I tell you directly, although I do not agree - I disagree - with this mayor's political position. Because, obviously, there are beyond the general right, because you have been elected, and major and minor issues of social life there, where there must in any way be access to the data to be illuminated. Although - and I repeat - I do not think there is a question of disciplinary action, at least as far as I am concerned, that is to say, to provoke such persecution from the mayor. Because I believe that it is a political position which has also been given political responsibility in relation to the answer or not and the information you want to have access and which does not give you. You understand that, too. You referred to the respective positions and opinions that exist in both Members of Parliament and the Government in relation to your party. They've been publicly exposed. The debate on this subject is almost exhausted. Everyone takes his responsibility, based on his role and on the Constitution, in the best way he performs his duties. I do not think that a matter primarily and marginally political needs to be brought in or in need of disciplinary action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have admired you in an unsuspecting time for two reasons: firstly, for your fairness. And that's not a rhetorical form of mine or a characterization for subordination of some praise. I still remember you from the Step of the House to accuse the New Democracy - PASOK in a dreadful but straightforward way because it persecutes the Golden Dawn and that it goes to destroy us. I remember very well. That's it and it's your honor. The answer you gave me is not Minister Voutsi's answer. Perhaps another minister could respond to me in the way that he attempts not wisely, in my judgment, without judging your way of expressing himself. It was clear. They saw him, but I cannot align myself for the following reason: You said not to support the political action of the Golden Dawn. And who asked this gentleman to support the action of the Golden Dawn? I don't even know him in mind. I've never done him the honor of seeing him. Has anyone asked him to support the action of the Golden Dawn? One of the prisoners. Secondly, we are being devastated by shit and we are being slandered as a criminal organization. Who's this gentleman and every gentleman? Like a commander, an old green guard who is still in his place at the Hospital of Katerini, where while the Golden Dawn blood donation team received a prize, this "nano" asked for this prize - oh the small one, o of the river, o of the old manhood! - to be returned because he has given it to a criminal organization. This 'nano' has been tried. Who gave him the right to stand trial? So the Mayor of Patras did the same. This, however, is a matter of pure constitutional interest. Who's that? It is not a political expression, Minister. Allow me. Who told him he could practice politics? And I pointed it out from the outset that he's not the Mayor of Patras, but he's Mayor Patras. It is for each mayor to be the mayor of all citizens, regardless of what he thinks. So, in this disgusting document, with these illegal directives, what did he do? It took a political position against a legitimate parliamentary party. That is why I believe it is up to you to reinstate it in the way you know in the order and to withdraw this document. That is my request: to withdraw my request without apologizing. To say that by mistake he was sent. It must, however, be revoked. I, of course, published my views on the local press and on the Internet. But that's not good enough. If he has even a trace of self-respect, he should definitely withdraw it, even implicitly. Don't get public. It must, however, withdraw it, if it has little - a sign of self-respect or dignity. In addition to that, why did he say that he can issue judicial decisions? Listen, there was an extra violation of the Penal Code. What do you mean? The effort made by Mrs Canelley, say, is leading the crowd that is screaming outside the Koydalus. In other words, it is forbidden to attempt to influence the judgement of the court. It's done, though. It's done by Parliament's parliament. Isn't this how he's trying to influence? If all mayors or the majority of mayors tried to call out 'Golden Dawn is a criminal organization', what would happen? It's the judges, too. The televisions, which we know from where they are headed and whose property they are and who the donors are - the european bankers, that is, not to hide our words - say what they say. Because the presence of Golden Dawn is for their economic interests, for their inhuman interests - because they act against man - disastrous and subversive! That is why at all costs from the time we stepped on our feet and sent us the Greek people here to Parliament, they did everything they could bring us to ruin us with so much: slander, imprisonment, murder of two of our children, who a tear did not fall. He did not drop a tear - not even pretext - by the former President of the Republic! Isn't she ashamed? Does he have any sign of conscience - I said that from the Step of this House - when the President of the Republic was in action to condone his father, his mother, his miserable sister? Haven't the golden people got a soul? What is it? It's Greek. They love Greece, our homeland, our tribe, which is now a gradual genocide, and this also attempts this bill which the Minister for Migration has to bring to Parliament. While he said at first that he would bring it under the urgency procedure, he did not bring it. I don't know what's going on and what you're bringing. Nunish Ministers told her 'Where are you going here?' It's gone backwards. [[At this point, the repetitive bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] Allow me just a second. There was and there is the term in the politics and constitutional law "Christmas naturalization" or in the late "Christmas politicism". When a territory of another state, such as Dodecanese, is attached to the Greek territory, then we have enthusiastic civilization. Here he has turned up to this point it has arrived. What do you mean? That we have ever civilization by conquest of Greece by intruders.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u10	Mr Colleague, you speak six minutes and you refer to other issues. With all due respect, your question concerns the Mayor of Patras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much. I'm done. You're right. Thank you for your tolerance, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u12	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u13	Mr Arvanitis, I have not stated any incompetence in this regard. I fully accept that I have a responsibility which I will not exercise. I told you straight away because I believe it is a political conflict, a political controversy in which everyone takes responsibility by means of his role and by his written actions and his positions on matters which, of course, are described in the responsibilities of both the mayors and the Members of Parliament and the Ministers. However, it is a very clear political issue, and I do not think it should be possible to resolve these issues with a criminal dimension. In your reply, however, you also raised a number of other issues to which I am obliged to refer and tell you that, for the murder of the two young chrysaurs, from the whole political world of the country, there was a direct reaction, complaint and certainly the complete...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u14	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u15	From all the spectrum, as far as I remember, absolutely and immediately. There was no clearing, at a stage that we could have really led to very dangerous situations, because the murder of the Paul Bridge had taken precedence. I would like to tell you, therefore, that your references to political persons, present or absent from the President of the Republic, to the absent, Mrs Kanelli and Mrs Christodoulopoulos, do not have the basis of their unconstitutional or anti-institutional behaviour, when everyone takes a strong political position towards a fact that you know has sealed the status of your own party, namely this two-dimensional - sui generis has been mentioned - a form of party that has, on the one hand, taken its positions here in Parliament by voting on the Greek people and, on the other, on the other hand, on the judiciary and on the other hand, with some announcements or critic policies, is before the Greek justice with the trial that has been formally started and on the charge as a criminal organisation. It is therefore a matter of extreme and marginal political, unprecedented political life on which political forces and persons take their responsibility. I would also like to make it clear - and you can read the relevant Minutes - that when the debates took place, before talking and substantiating about possible manipulations that existed either on the issues of the financing of the Golden Dawn or on other issues, each of us had the relevant view of the political forces. I do not think, however, either personally and no one in our area has said that this is a conspiracy that after all these violent actions, which will of course be judged and finalised in court and only there can be, there has been the intervention of justice, and at the moment there is, or rather continuing holidays, the trial concerning your party. This is to clarify both the attitude and the position of each of us and the way in which we go and choose from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to facilitate both Mr Arvanitis and the Ministers, with your permission, we will proceed to the seventh with number 289/29-5/2015 to a topical question by my colleague, Mr Achaias of the People's League - Golden Dawn, Mr Michael Arvanitis, to the Minister of National Defence, on Turkish air space violations and Greek territorial waters. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Constantine Quiet. Mr Arvanitis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. This is what I am writing briefly in my question, Minister, when I had the honour of being a member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to the Ministry of National Defence, to address the Minister Kammenos. The answer given to me was not satisfactory because it was completely unclear. What was I asking for with a clear, unequivocal question? Why is NATO not interfering, that is, the Atlantic Alliance, which has two arms, the political and military, against Turkey, which, with a nerve, has over our heads a rift called casus bellilli, does it not every day violate the airspace and violates our warships and territorial waters? Is it ever possible or is it foreseen by any regulation of the Atlantic Alliance that it has the right of one of the allies to attack the other, to threaten the other? That's incomprehensible! It is unreasonable, first-time and, of course, it is not understood in any NATO regulation. My question, then, is this: will our children continue - these "early birds" - risk their lives because the Turk, the Turkish snag show that it has sovereign rights in the Aegean? This is also the case with our warships, and I congratulate the master who ordered and rejected warning shots and the Turkish master of the ship resurrected. The money spent is not very small. We have daily intercepts and NATO doesn't do anything! What does that mean? What kind of conclusion can I draw from safe? That NATO exists for Turkey and there is no Greece. And if we assume, with his conduct so far - not to mention the Cyprus issue, because there too he played his part, it is a big deal - that we have an attack by Turkey and in view of the fact that America is exercising a pro-Albanian policy - Eddie Rama has literally defied him and the Turks are helping him, so if we assume that an attempt, not just of a hot event, is taking place, but an attempt to take an island or an attempt to get into Thrace, what will NATO do? That's what I want you to ask, and I want an answer in writing! What are you gonna do, gentlemen? Are you going to enter our planes between our armored? It's a disgrace to them! We have offered so much blood to the allies and we are always on the side of the losers, never on the side of the winners. And now that our country is suffering financially, it is suffering because of these people. But that's another matter. This is NATO. NATO had to intervene, give us an answer or raise its own planes, from Italy, to intercept the Turkish invaders. Why doesn't he do that? Or pay us. Get our people to work out by intercepting and paying for kerosene. But life is not paid! It's Eleanor's time! Suspect Turk threw his plane in the back. The subtle Turk! And he killed him, that hero! These questions do not concern Michael Arvanitis, they concern the entire Greek people and one cannot understand - and the last peasant - why NATO is not intervening and why this unacceptable situation from Turkey continues. Are we to blame in constant intimacy? These are my questions, Minister, and I imagine you will not give me the opportunity to answer them if your answers are clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arvanitis, first of all, I would like to say that in my presence, when you visited the Ministry of National Defence, you asked the Minister, Mr Kammenos, and I think his answer was clear and substantial. I, too, will try to supplement some aspects and aspects highlighted in your question. Before I begin, however, I would like to say the basic principle of international law. It is the principle of proportionality. Let me say that each country's operational response to any challenge is proportionate, whether at diplomatic level or at operational level. First of all, the present government and the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence from the day of the taking up of its duties has proved to be addressing the issues with due determination and always in the context of international law. This has been fully understood by the neighbouring country - and I will tell you here below a very recent example - which has expressed its displeasure in both NATO and many different ways. In addition to the above, the Greek Government, through the appropriate ministries, is responsible and consistently exercising a new, multi-dimensional foreign and defence policy, on a bilateral and multilateral level, where there is the element of determination and the element of temptation, where both are needed, in order for each reaction to be proportionate to the challenge. I would also like to add that with regard to the Turkish activities that have taken place in areas of Greek territory in recent years - and we are not talking about the last few months or weeks, about thirty years this policy has been carried out by the neighbouring country - we are monitoring them, evaluating them and politically and operationally at this time. Every response involves what I have said to you, the seriousness, the temperament, the effectiveness of any infringing activity on land, sea and air, without leaving any provocative action unanswered and without drifting into an artificial escalation of tension, which is often called for by the neighbouring country. All of this is weighted at different levels, operational, political, diplomatic and by the co-legislative ministries, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the right esteem of the real threat and the country's strategy in the long term. At the same time, the Ministry of National Defence also monitors Turkish aeronautical activities in the Aegean and responds directly and with the appropriate degree of escalation in any action that is incompatible with good neighbourly principles and respect for international law. At this point I would like to point out that foreign policy and defence issues are a web of many and complex parameters. Therefore, they cannot be treated with occasional ceremonies and a policy of proclamation as you put them in your question. The determination and completeness of the positions of the multi-dimensional Greek foreign and defence policy should be judged in the light of all the operational, diplomatic and political activities undertaken by the Greek state and within the framework of NATO. With regard to the operational part, you realise that I cannot, through this procedure, release any further information on specific cases. However, we are at your disposal, as are all colleagues in the committee responsible for defence and foreign policy, to answer whether there is anything specific about something. I am returning to you on the operational issues that, in the regular briefings of the Committee on Foreign and Defence, of which you are a member, you can put these questions and specific questions on operational issues and be fully informed by the staff of the three branches present at the committee meetings. In any case, I repeat that the Air Force always takes all the measures necessary for the continued surveillance of the airspace, the recognition of the traces entering the FIR Athens without flight plan and the intercept of them, when a breach occurs within the 10 nautical miles of the Greek airspace. At the same time, the Navy, with the broad presence of its ships throughout the Aegean, is a powerful force to prevent, safety, geopolitical stability. Let me say that peace is so much inconsistent in this triangle of complex geopolitical problems of enormous instability. At our northern border is Ukraine and the Ukrainian crisis, in the west, the Libyan crisis with the implication of ISIS and to the east, not just the Palestinian problem, but the overall problem that is mentioned in Syria and the rivalry of the Caliphat forces. In this triangle is our country. It is the only country that has not become part of the problem and is a factor of geopolitical and real stability, while the neighbouring country, unfortunately, is involved in the problem and is now part of the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Arvanite, if you wish, you may answer for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u21	Just a word. Thank you, Mr President. Minister, your answer to what NATO could do was not clear, if it were to. I believe that, in particular, the Turks are the "hot child" of the Americans. This is a fact and always against Greece. Souda's got a base. They could well make a call to Erdogan, the new sultan or Davotoglu and tell him "stop, don't break, sir, because we, a country that is joining our allied camp, defend it." Why don't their planes get up, put the Americans in the pocket and burn kerosene? I can't understand that. They do have a base in the Aktio, of course. They could do well to stop intercepting and not us. I understand the complexity of the problem. Alas, if I'm out of reality. But the cold, the Turk perceives it as endlessness. I'm not saying we should attack. I didn't say that. To have powerful Armed Forces. For operational readiness and ability, at least for speeches, it does not have the slightest doubt. I am proud of our Greek Army and I know that they will sacrifice up to one to defend these bloody lands! I only told the Minister, Mr Pano Kammenos, this. I don't know if you were present, or were gone, when he met his counterpart in Russia, Russia's Minister of National Defence. You told him that you could free an airplane and two Russian freshmen to stroll in the territorial waters of our country, Greece. If they're damaged or if they want some supply, thank God, we have so many ports to go to the Aegean Sea. How did Cyprus grant its ports? And he rightly did. Couldn't we easily allow our territorial waters to ride three boats only, one airplane and two frigates? What would the Turk do? Would it go away? Or would the Americans say "after you did that - they wouldn't have any excuses - you offended NATO. We don't make any alliances." Golden Dawn is in favor of enlargement, not of changing alliances. We don't make any alliances, none at all. We're just saying to the Russian to take his walks here, because we want to save our defense too. That's the point, in simple words. That's what they tell me where I'm going to Greece. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u23	Very soon I'll answer. Thank you. I would like to refer to a specific incident, three and a half weeks ago, when the wider region of Lemnos was bound by the neighbouring country and within twenty-four hours this commitment was no longer a fact. This was the result of a very substantial and concrete action on the part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of National Defence - both within NATO and not only - in order that this commitment should cease to exist, and indeed a commitment from the wider region, which also touched on the territory of the island, which is illegal and irregular on the basis of International Law. So when we do and proceed with efficiency and speed, we have results. As far as your insistence on NATO is concerned, I would just like to mention - because I must tell you that I cannot apologize for NATO, that is not the position of any minister and any political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence - that NATO has proved over time on what side of the bank stands. In fact, in 1967-74, we had this dreadful dictatorship in our country, which was the result of the tragedy today that the Cypriot people are still experiencing. The division of this island and the occupied northern part of this island is a result, not just of a naval inertia, but of a naval coexistence with the neighbouring country. Therefore, if one is to have an integrated historical debate, but also of value for NATO today, it would be worth discussing this on the substance. However, within the framework of all the international organisations that we are currently participating in either military or political coalitions and broader organisations, we will react quickly and effectively. And that will continue to be the case, primarily ensuring peace. Because today's doctrine of the new political leadership is a patriotism which perceives the interests of the Greek people in the wider region, Europe, the Middle East and the Balkans, where we have an indescribable outbreak of nationalism, which we all know of its results. I think that in this area, which is particularly dangerous for our country, foreign policy must be of a peaceful nature, but also of a rapid effectiveness, when we seek to resolve issues at the basis of international law and without granting our country's rights to no one, and so we will go. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Minister. Series now has the thirteenth third under number 287/29-5-2015 topical question by Evia MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of National Defence, on the reopening of the ElektrochaniKANIC KYPE plant, its integration into the administrative structure of the Ministry of National Defence and the reopening of the local economy. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Constantine Quiet. Mr. Mavragany, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is relatively well known to you. I know that you have dealt with this, but I would like to say this: in previous years the entire Greek economy has been dismantled. It is well known in economic circles - and not just - that, on the one hand, if the steam engine of public and public investment does not go ahead, the Greek economy will not go back. On the other hand, it is well known that the strong, strong and key strategic industries of NSAs, like the "ELECTRONIC KYMY", were dismantled and impaired in terms of their value: Since 2004 they had 11 million euros of turnover, they reached in 2012 to have 40,000 euros only and people lose jobs and the national economy a very large income. In addition, the Army and the Police could no longer source the helmets, the military and police uniforms, biochemical warfare and some of the "ELECTTROMHANIC KYYY" and were supplied by foreign contractors. So the question arises clearly: why has the Greek state so far not gone in this direction? Of course, that is why you cannot apologize. So we ask you, from now on, what exactly will the Ministry and you personally do, and I know that you have the appropriate sensitivity, in the direction of reopening this company, so that they can be reactivated. I note that Evia is one of the three most unemploy­ment laws. Kymi is not really the koruna of unemployment. Her economy is completely demolished. And it would be a real oasis to this wilderness of unemployment and weakenment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and respect for time. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mavragani, let me first point out that I agree with the substance and description of your question about the Kymi unit. In fact, you accurately describe the indifference and criminal synergy of the then Greek state of the previous Memorandum, so that not only Kymi, but also the other subsidiary in Kymi, would have - or have - the same fate, i.e. the total marginalization, the closure of the units and the undeserved tragedy, which would have been experienced by the workers on the path of unemployment, etc. So, from the company's time to now - we are talking about Kymi - one realizes that the problems of maintaining the company were obviously not too small and negligible. After all, you're stressing it. Despite the adverse circumstances and the increasing pressures on closure and special liquidation that we have stopped since the first moment in the first ten days that we took office as a political leadership in the Ministry of Defence, it is clear that this is not enough. It's not enough to stop the liquidation. So you have to go to a new business plan. We are at this point right now. I have to tell you I visited Kymi. Our concern is not to describe tragedies. Minister Kammenos, Mr. Toskas and I have visited the parties, with our eyes we have seen the problems and the people we have looked in their eyes. We have analysed the scientific structure in terms of human resources, but also the huge advantages that these units have to bring forward, survive and develop. So, in our visit, our intention and our conclusion is that we will not go ahead with the reduction and disappearance of this workforce or of the unit itself, but instead we will proceed with a brave plan for productive reconstruction, which is all about the defence systems and the two subsidiaries, Kymi and Kymbrass. When I was on the eve of Great Thursday on 9 March, I had spoken to the workers and found that this is a company that is able to provide the Armed Forces as a whole, not only with the necessary clothing, but also with other materials and products that are particularly modern. Unfortunately, in recent years we have lost the train in order to keep up to date, to find ourselves in the market for the necessary products, which we should have, and of course, also to have an extroversion, which we could have with exports to other countries. That's not what happened. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] In addition, at the moment we are talking, we have commissioned and will have in a few days from the competent departments of the Ministry of National Defence the full recording and imprinting of the study we have requested, in order to understand all their potential and to find out whether this operation will be a factory or whether it will also have political products and defence products. However, as you know very well, this has a particular problem with the legal maze that we must read about national legislation and European case-law. We will, however, end up in a few days' time with the aim of economic restructuring, stabilising the company as an economic operator in Evia, in the wider region, to support a region with very high unemployment, as you have pointed out. [[At this point it says the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister]] In the face of the criminal policies that have been followed in recent years, the various speculators who have plundered the company have moved towards total destruction and marginalisation, we will follow exactly the reverse course that I have described to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u29	I would just like to say one word, because the Minister was very clear about the legislation and whether he actually allows or requires the use of ELECTRONIC KINGDOM and the respective companies under the control of the public. O o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o Article 3978/2011 and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Community in Article 346 1b provide precisely for the obligation or right of the Member State to create those internal industries so that it can have self-sufficiency of products and equipment in the military and security bodies in order to be able to shield its security. So the legal framework also exists in the direction of creating a production cell there, which will provide a military, police and security corps with biochemical warfare costumes, with military helmets, with a Kevlar helmet, with only a 300,000 euros investment in a production womb, such as workers have told us on several occasions, and of course, with a bulletproof vest. In the latter I will stand by, Minister, because there is a very big issue with the Greek police, for example. The Greek Police, as you know, have been procured in recent years with doubtful quality vests, endangering these people, who are daily faced with crime and actually put their lives at the altar of the public interest. However, the Greek state, until recently, did not get any better in the direction of making use of this fundamental geostrategic industry that we have in Greece, so that it could be provided with a bulletproof vest of high quality, in order to protect human lives, both police and, of course, soldiers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] So it is unavoidable that we should speed up the procedures as far as we can, since the workers themselves have submitted it from 13-3-2015 to you. I know that you have taken this into account so that you can enrich it and possibly diversify it in some of its key points. I think time should be shortened on our agenda so that we can give immediate results.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u31	You have addressed and described some of the points you have raised in the legislative and legal sphere, but also in the political issue, which you have referred to in your question, and I have referred to my first answer, and you know very well that legal issues are very complex. There is this way out that you mentioned, but we also have the cork that comes from the past and refers to the so-called 'unlawful aid'. That is what we need to find an immediate solution. And you know very well that there are artificial solutions - I will not go into details here - but you know that there are both the political arms and the military arms. There can be divisions and we can find the right solutions. What matters is the range of products. And on the visit I was visiting, all the product range had been presented to me and to the bulletproof vests. In fact, by asking the police themselves many times I see them on the street, I hear that our vests weigh about three and a half pounds more than we buy in periods of heat and summer are very weak and problematic. When I asked the directors and told them why we did not monitor the development of technology, the know-how, in order to be lighter and better, I was honestly answered by people that the parent company, i.e. the company that was responsible for supporting and assisting the "ELECTROMHANIC KYD", has never done so and produced the same vests for a decade yet. So we also need an update, a modernisation of such a kind that we need to monitor the market. However, you are absolutely right, when you stress that the range of products can be widened even further, such as sheets, in pillowhouses that we need in all the barracks, where we have problems today in the service of our soldiers, who are incomplete in order to be able to themselves have the right clothing and multitude needed in this dress, both in summer and winter. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] So, in this direction we will go, to modernise, to update and thus not only to be self-sufficient, but also to be able to have an extroversion that we need. Well, thank you. I think that your question further illuminates the problems of the past and the necessary areas and points we need to do, both at legislative and political level, in order to ensure jobs and to move towards a road to the survival and development of the "ELECTROMHANIC DISCY"
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Minister. I would like to make a statement to this House. The Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Health, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and the Deputy Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity tabled a draft law on 19-6-2015: "Measures to alleviate the functioning of the Disability Certification Centres (CEPD), to combat tax evasion and related insurance". Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis has asked for his questions to be preceded by his question to the Deputy Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Mr Spirtzi. I assume that the House, but also the Members concerned, will agree. So does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u33	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u34	The House agreed. Next is the first with number 2058-27-2015 question by Vice-President of Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on measures to address the problems arising from the maintenance of OSCE buses. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism Mr Christos Spirtzis. Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes to start with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I thank my colleagues. Secondly, I shall read from text, which I am not used to, so that I do not take a second from time to time and do not charge my colleagues any more. Minister, in the last two months there have been many problems on OSCE buses - they have always had, but not such an area - moving on the city's road network, and delays have been observed on daily routes, but also the most critical being that passengers are at risk of sudden damage. It is characteristic that in the last two months there have been fires on four OSCE buses, such as Metamorphosis and Varkiza. This bus carried a lot of people. The vehicle was completely destroyed, after it broke the engine cap and all the oil was thrown out, picking on fire. Also, in the area of Artemis, as well as in the center of Athens, on Achilles Street, and at the time that they were on routes, they were filled with passengers. It is clear that this has now taken a worrying dimension, as it seems that only from luck we do not have any injured or victims to date, while the frequency is particularly worrying. So I would like you to tell us today about this chronic problem - I do not say that in five months of government SYRIZA all of this has happened - what measures are you going to take in order to prevent, in future, fires or sudden damage to OSCE vehicles and, above all, when maintenance will be completed - whether you have this objective or have the objective of renewing the fleet - and repairing the nine hundred and fifty-five out of two hundred and fifty buses which are decommissioned in the train.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and the absolute respect of time. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I thank you for the question, because the tragic situation we have received in the media sector also appears. I will submit the service documents and their attachments, showing that these problems have been identified and are listed below: First, in a letter dated 26-3-2014 and in the reply of the Minister that the OSCE decided to proceed directly with the relevant procedures to cover the proposed OSCE positions and concerned three hundred 30 drivers and a hundred twenty technicians. I'll testify later. These are six, seven documents. In a letter dated 11 April 2014, where in the course of the consultation on the Operational Programme ‘Transport Infrastructure, Environment and Sustainable Development 2014-2020’ it is reported that all references and possible funding such as the modernisation of the bus fleet and infrastructures of the OSH have been disregarded. Let me note that in the previous programming, too, nothing has been included, despite reports from the UCLAF. Then I will also submit this document. Despite the fact that according to a joint decision of 23-4/2014 12.5 million - on 23-4-2014 - were predicted for payroll costs in 2014 of new recruited and mobile staff, nothing was done to complete the recruitment process. On 22-9-2014, the OSH reiterates that the situation is dramatic. Report gaps for the technical support of thermal and electric buses and point out the need to immediately initiate the procedures for the recruitment of technical and drivers. On 19-11-2014 the president and CEO of the OSH states: “For 2015, with the current data, the operation of the company is impossible.” And it explains the reasons, namely the dramatic reduction in economic and human resources. I'm going to file these letters for them to exist. It says that Mr Economou, who remains President and CEO of the OSH: "We have a huge reduction. Not provided for in the Staff Regulations.’ And it concludes: "If this distorting choice of the huge subsidy reduction is not corrected and does not come back to an amount of 115 to 120 million, the UCLAF will collapse, both for the citizens and the Government will be painful." [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. On 11-3-2015, OSH submitted a request to meet imperative functional needs - that is - a thousand hundred forty places, where it calls for eight hundred five drivers - a few months ago asked for three hundred fifty - and two hundred twenty technicians - during the same period it asked for a hundred and twenty. In order to address this dramatic situation, unfortunately, the previous government has not only found the resources, but in October 2014 it has reduced, as you know, tickets. Mr President, the measures we are going to take and consider them so that following the negotiation of the country, and following the appointment of new administrations, both in the OSCE and in the OSCE, it is firstly a saving of resources from the amendment of the Law on the scandalous grant of the Thessaloniki Urban Transport Agency - we have five times higher subsidies, since they are private there than the OSCE is public. Secondly, the direct recruitment or transfer of personnel of critical specialties to both OSH and other transport organisations, i.e. the Suburban, TRAINOSE, OSE, SSH, the Ministry of Transport, etc. Thirdly, the redesign of the network and the integration of local government and the planning and operation - we can have existing buses available to municipal and municipal enterprises for local transport - and finally, the renewal of the fleet, along with actions contributing to the country's productive reconstruction and, of course, to finding funding, obviously after 2015, to cover 2020's energy savings in transport, to reduce environmental pollutants by redesigning the operational plan. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing again and again.]] We need about 130 million to obtain five hundred buses. We need approximately five hundred and fifty buses, at least, for the needs of the Lecade. The notion of renewal of part of the bus fleet and the depreciation of the OSH, of public transport and in general of public operators has already stopped and is one of the main differences in the previous policy from the current government's policy. I am tabling the above-mentioned documents. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Comrade, you have your dentistry. Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u39	Minister, the easy way, in answering a timely question, is to throw it to the previous ones. I myself rushed to tell you that I know that not all of the problems arose during the five months that you're government and you're in the Ministry. You're less. But specific answers, you'll allow me to tell you, I didn't. With a survey I have carried out, I realised that the problem I mentioned was mainly due to the pastorality of the fleet that you too admitted, but by saying that there would be a renewal of the fleet. When? Three-terms? In what process? By buying, by leasing, with what? What timetable is this fleet renewal? Secondly, in its incomplete maintenance due to its underfunding. And thirdly - you are right, you are referring to this - the lack of staff, due to early retirement and pensions. The staff, of course, who left were the drivers, which is why, as you said from about a thousand hundred people, the eighttacos are drivers. I would like to ask some questions, because this is, for example, about the reduction in shifts. Of the three thousand seven hundred shifts, namely, that came out on a daily basis from ETHEL, today has only reached two thousand two hundred. If the exit to retirement continues, the two two hundred will go under two thousand. So I want you to tell me, on the basis of what is happening at the moment in Brussels - because we can no longer say to the three terminals, because this is over Thursday - will you get a thousand percent? Will you find the money? I heard about Thessaloniki and you're probably right, but how much money will you save from there? This is a lot of money. So on the basis of what is happening in Brussels, I would like you to give me a timetable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u40	I'll give you the timeline.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u41	I want to know and I have been very worried, because you have not analysed where the municipalities are going to be involved. What will you charge them to do? And if you load it on them, what kind of money will they do it on? From what Mr. Voutsis asks to take to the Bank of Greece and they will not have? What money will the municipalities do with it? I see that you're going to take a place on the route and say, "Get in, Municipality of Athens to do it, take, Municipality of Kifisia, do it", get out of your back, go to the back of self-government. But tell me what kind of money that's gonna be, if I understood it well, 'cause I might have made a mistake. I know you're a practical man. Mr. Quiet has left who spoke of previous Memorandum Governments, which we will remember with nostalgia, ahead of what you will sign on Thursday. With great nostalgia! And you're told by someone who had luck - because I wasn't a Member - and he didn't vote for a memorandum. I'm closing the parentheses. It's not your fault, you didn't tell him. I would therefore like you to reply with one, two, three on the issues I have raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Kaklamani. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kaklamani, let us wait a few hours and ask us questions about what is going on in Brussels, to compare both the memoranda and the final one - we hope - a solution which will be given by this negotiation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u44	Thursday, we'll have questions solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u45	In particular, I've answered a large part of the resources where we'll find it. A second part that does not only concern OSH, but is related to all urban transport, as the same problems are in "METRO" and elsewhere, as "TRAINOSE" is one of the overtimes they pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u46	Minister, beat the wood, METRO won't get on fire. It's a safe means.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u47	You asked me where we'd get money to get the thousand hundred and thirty that they need. Only in TRAINOSE we pay EUR 1 million per year overtime and overtime. It is also a demand for workers, it is also a government policy, that this money be given to people who are to be recruited. That's what we're doing right now. We see an organization - organization, how much more money we pay to overcome dogmatism. I'm not saying that the previous governments did it with joy. But they did. Reductions in staff in public sectors, raising costs, because these things were paid for later in overtime, in coke off. And it's happening everywhere, as well as the U.S. So of course we will. We will not follow Mr Economou's answer, which six to seven months ago called for thirty hundred and today he asked for eight hundred. So Mr. Economou should finally tell us if he wants three hundred thirty to meet the needs of the U.S.A., or if he wants eight hundred fifty to cover them. He has to tell us. In five months they may not have more than doubled, almost tripled the needs and doubled to the craftsmen.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u48	How many people retired in six months?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u49	Oh, no. They didn't leave that many of them then. Evidently, man has pointed it out in his papers. Thirdly, I do not blame the previous government. What I submitted was the correspondence of the OSH, the previous government to the administration, with the previous government. They themselves had the mail. I'm not talking about it. Mr. Economou tells the previous Minister. What else are we gonna do? I talked about redesigning the network. You know very well that too many municipalities and citizens, because they have cut too many routes, are asking for these outdated buses, which are not used, which are in the OSH trains, to be made available to the municipalities to meet local needs. We want to move towards a comprehensive redesign of the UCLAF network, and I think that of all these buses which are currently not being used, we can, with the renewal of the fleet, adequately meet the needs of the main network. We're not going to charge local self-government something. It's coming back. We will give her buses and I imagine that what the municipalities will do to cover small, local journeys will be sustainable. It's positive, instead of rotting the buses...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u50	Not to cost them more than to buy new ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u51	No, no, no, no, no. For the purchase of a bus, we need at least EUR 200,000 to 250,000, so I said that we need EUR 130,000 for five hundred new buses. The last thing is that this fleet modernisation needs to be integrated into the ETUC. The National Participation will see how we can cover it, whether we go in a form of leasing, lending or whether we have it. There are actions. We are bound by the 20-20 energy saving targets. We can justify this by amending the operational procedure. The previous government hadn't put it on, or by now we could have the contest. So I said that we are going to redesign the operation to include this action. After 2015 the competition will also be running. It can't be done for this year with this budget. So it's very specific what I said we're going to do. I cannot tell you, until the country's great negotiation is over, the exact number of workers we will hire with the new recruitments, but that is our direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Minister. The second question will be discussed under number 1642/8-4-2015 by Vice-President of Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the procedure for licensing outdoor parking in the historic centre of Athens. Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u53	Minister, I will start here, saying good words about you, because as President of the Technical Chamber, and you know the matter and you have contributed to the extent to which you could find a solution. So by voting on Mr von Wogau's report. Article 19(1), in particular Article 19(1), enabled open-air stations to be licensed for three years. These are outdoor car stations referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 27 of a Presidential Decree of '76, which proved to function until 31-12/2012 within the administrative limits of the traditional section of the city of Athens, as was also described by the Presidential Decree of '79. Although the conditions laid down by the legislature under Article 19 of the latter article n. 4313/2014 are all fulfilled, however, the Directorate-General for Transport and Communications of the Athens Regional Division, which is responsible for issuing the licences, does not issue the licences to the operators in the parking area and sent a document to your Ministry on 24-3-2015 requesting clarification of the precise documentation to be submitted by interested parties in order to make use of the article I mentioned n. Date of birth: 4313/2014. The question to be asked is: Why is it not referred to a new interpretation circular under Article 19 of Law No4313/14 that the application of paragraph 1 to the documents referred to in paragraph 9 of Article 6 of Law 2801/00, which is described in detail what are the supporting documents? However, if you think that this is not enough and need to supplement the legislative framework, when do you intend - if you agree with the operation of these small outdoor parking at the historic centre - to bring this legislation to the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, thank you for your kind words. As you will see from the Agency's reply, there is already and is completed by the Ministry's Services a new interpretative circular for L.4213/14 not only for Article 19, but also for Articles 20, 22, 23, 24 and 52 concerning the licensing of outdoor automotive stations but also other service facilities such as service stations such as fuel agencies, repair and maintenance of vehicles and other facilities. Unfortunately, the existing legislative framework contains contradictions and gray areas, which afflict citizens, professionals and services. Not only from the Technical Chamber, but from my professional experience with the subject, I tell you that many are using this and starting for other reasons, for other purposes, for the service of other objectives, for complaints both at car stations and at service stations for the gray areas that exist in the laws. So you're absolutely right. We shall proceed, both at the level of procedures and at the legislative level, to create a clear licensing framework. In addition to the administration's legal uncertainties, I find it quite reasonable to move directly to new legislation to extend the current outdoor parking facilities, not only in the historic centre of Athens but also in other cities, in historical centres of other cities, which have not been permanently addressed with the spatial planning framework and a completely clear and simplified licensing procedure. We therefore believe that there will be a new interpretative circular and legislative intervention within 30 days of today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u57	Thank you for the answer. You know, Minister, I accept that you should see it on a pan-Hellenic level, but I am a Athens MP. Athens has a few things that characterize it: its periphery, its chestnuts, which unfortunately are missing, the laternazis, who unfortunately need permission to play laterna - think - and which - by dying the old ones - are gone. And these are the little parking lots, which are actually family business. It's the father, the mother, and the child, who didn't go to college, and the three work. You knew them, they're on certain spots where there's no other kind of parking. We don't want confrontation with people who make modern parking. And that's what they need in the city of Athens. I know that very well, since I have been a mayor and have been attacked for this story, because there is the view that we can make parking on the rooftops of the apartments and not underground parking. There is this view from professional economists. As we have professional democrats, we also have professional ecologists, but leave it. It is an injustice indeed for these people, who are actually making a cut. And when does the cut come out, Minister, so we don't go crazy? Friday night and Saturday, both seldom in the middle and especially in the summer months. Because these are parking spaces - an average - if ever filled, from twenty-five to thirty cars - it is nothing special, that is to say - which, however, serve the visitor of these historic neighbourhoods that are in the center of Athens. I am pleased to note the one month you mentioned. I will follow it and thank you, because in this answer to my question you were specific. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u59	I have nothing to add, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. Subsequent to the fourth question under number 340/11-6-2015, Mr.Christina Tachiaou asked the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism a top-level question about the residual operation of regional airports and the direct impact on tourism. Mr Spirtzis will answer the topical and urgent question by the Deputy Minister. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, when questions become more up-to-date at the time of their reply than at the time of their statement it is a completely worrying phenomenon. It means that urgent issues are not corrected, they are not dealt with, but, on the contrary, they are getting worse. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of Parliament, DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, takes over the Presidential Chair.]] I am referring to yesterday's incident, of closing Mykonos airport, of canceling flights, because a piece of it left the hallway. An aircraft was about to take off, it didn't take off, because there wasn't a safe runway. And all that in the summer. What else should be done to worry about the situation of regional airports? People, locals, visitors, all public and private operators cry out about the situation of regional airports, especially in island tourist destinations. I say again: we have summers and we're talking about island destinations. Deficiencies in checks and certifications of radio aid equipment result in aerodromes closing at sunset. Which country that respects its tourism that wants tourism can this happen? What do we have to do? How are the tourists coming? They're coming by boats? Or should the airlines around the world agree not to fly after the sunset, because they cannot serve the island airports? Before addressing my timely question, I would like to highlight a suspicion, which is being cultivated with the five months of governance. The regional airports have been put in a process of privatization, concessions, as we want to say. Indeed, because they concern basic state structures, their privatization cannot exclude the Greek State, which should be involved and ensure not only a single payment from its sale, but also a profitable participation. However, we are seeing a neglect here, which some might say is persevering. In addition to the blow to tourism, this question arises: Does the government want to degrade them to sell them at a lower price, to give them a lower price, which may also be degrading? Or maybe he doesn't want to sell it at all, doesn't he want to give it to you at all? In the first case, it's a procession that's too bad. In the second case, we would very much like to know how all the infrastructures can be made and how the public can go ahead with their maintenance. On the basis of the above, and given that we cannot at all rule out the possibility of having a new Mykonos incident, I would like to ask how you will deal directly with the problematic state of the operation of airports and when the necessary checks will be carried out on radio aid systems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Tahiau. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Tachiau, the situation of the regional airports is indeed tragic, and I thank you for the timely question, although you have completed it, that is to say you have two more questions than you have asked. Shows in depth your briefing of the D.A.'s problems. The findings are the consequences of a policy that wanted the PSC devalued, powerless and disguised. And not just the PD. They are the consequences of a political abandonment of airports, equipment and buildings. However, most importantly, depreciation of the HR's headquarters, with huge shortages in critical specialities. Unfortunately, Mrs Tachiau, not only do you not reveal these policies, but you cover them up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u64	What about us?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u65	I'm reading what you're writing, what you've submitted. You are also responsible to the current government for abandoning tourism and any necessary tourist strategy. Yes, you are in a poetic mood. You mention that we have abandoned him at the mercy of the Greek sun, the blue waters and the Greek hospitality. You are not referring, of course, to the rivers, but we are going beyond that. We ask: have you now discovered the dramatic situation of airports, the deficiencies in the PSC and the problems created by the economic crisis? For the six to seven years of memorial policies, isotopes and deregulation anything? That's what we're telling you. Memorandum policies deregulation and dismantle the country and society. You are urging us to continue the same policies and to give us up for the results of the policies you are defending. In your document, therefore, here in the timely question you continue your poetic reasoning, but also in political directions, that Greece is being smashed internationally with threats to strikes, with ejections of customers from five-five hotels, with irregular immigrants - you say - who are now melting down in Kos. What can I say, Mrs. Tachiau? Is Greece breaking apart when the workers are threatening a strike? What do you think? So, when they strike, what happens? What do you suggest? When the workers strike, does the country break? Yes, sir. So, from what you're saying, when a hotel company closes, is the country going through? Have you seen many hotel units closing lately? Does the country break through when the immigrants, the people who left their own country to seek a better life, at the risk of their lives, are not stacked worse than the animals that stacked on their livestock in vile, inhuman reception areas? Then the country doesn't break? Does the country break through or does the extreme liberal maintenance policies and Dublin II forecasts? That's not what you're saying in your document. Tell us what you are suggesting: forbid the strikes, forbid the sale of hotels? What do you suggest? Or do we continue to treat unfortunate people worse than animals? We ask you, because you refer to the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u66	I expect my turn to come and answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u67	You don't stop here. You falsely mention that on large and multitude islands - such as Lesvos, Skiathos, Santorini and Mykonos - night flights have been interrupted for security reasons. Ms. Tachiau, the few months government that received a country and public bodies broken up would not let that happen. The airports aren't closed. You report that the YPA, although it has the means to carry out the checks, is unable to use them due to a lack of maintenance resources. You hide or you don't know - but with so many details like the rest of you're probably hiding - that the PSC has two planes for the certification of radio aids that are not economical, but for the political dissolution of the PSC and the abandonment of the previous government and the previous administration were not working.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u68	The current administration hasn't changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u69	Now I'll tell you about her now. Nanny's in today. Today the FEK was published. With a magic wand, will he do it all? So let us tell you: from the two airplanes that were off, a new one and an old one out of operation, the first one was sent to Germany in a few months ago and it was taken back, and it is obviously behind, and it is control over all airports - so no night flights will be closed - and in the second, which is new technology, a computer had broken down, and it was not fixed or replaced. The cost of the new technology plane was 40,000 euros. You think the PD didn't have a million-dollar PD 40,000?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u70	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u71	No, he had 40,000. In the second, when we sent it back to Germany and returned these few months, the cost was 60,000 and with an additional damage they found for maintenance cost 90,000. You don't think PD 90,000 didn't have one?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u72	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u73	You're right about it because he gave it to you. That money had been set aside. They were also set for it, and that's why the plane came back. Apparently, he's got it. What did the previous PSC administration do and the previous government did not ask you. I understand why you have not wondered why you want to follow the same policy. What do we do? Along with the employees of the PSC, since we do not regard the country as being broken, nor the warning or the strike of the workers, we do the following: Firstly, the one aircraft I told you was sent for maintenance and returned and has certified within the time, which is imposed by the regulations, the radio aids of the Greek public airports. Secondly, there has been a problem which has been resolved in another way of certification. From what you're referring, it's just Lesvos and Skiathos Airports, until the return to the maintenance of the aircraft of the U.S.A., treated by the employees and staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u74	Minister, if you'll excuse me, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u75	I shall conclude, Madam President. Thirdly, steps have been announced by our Government to upload Greek society and national dignity, including the recruitment of thirty-two new air traffic controllers, the re-uptake of sacked persons and their exploitation, where there are gaps, the exceptional grant to the UAA for the upgrading of airports broken down by the previous government, who wanted to privatise them, as you know and in the way you know. Fourthly, the modernisation of the RDP's telecommunications systems and electronic equipment. Fifthly, dealing with workers in problems and their consequences, such as delays, maintenance of equipment and installations, lack of staff at the islands' regional airports. Madam President, legislation has been drawn up and will be submitted to Parliament and we will see, Mrs Tahiau, whether you will support these provisions. Madam President, as it is understood, the government in real difficult times not only leaves the country broken, as it has been received, but corrects the degradation of the Greek state and of the Greek society, working day and night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Minister. By mistake, I've tied your time. You've exhausted your dentistry, Mr. Minister. However, we will enable you to speak, if you want, but very soon. Mrs. Tachiau, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u77	Minister, Mr. Spirtzi, we don't know each other, you don't have any priors with me. Right? There's nothing to have before you. Because this is the second time you have answered my question of time and it is the second time I have asked you to withdraw. Next time, you left implied for contractors. Now you're talking about cover-up, you're talking about information I might have. You are addressing a load of reproach, which is not derived from anywhere. You say here that we are against the strike, you say here that we are against the immigrants. You're distorting everything. I ask you to withdraw all those nails you've left for my face. Let me also inform you that I'm a journalist and I'm very sorry that I don't work at this time as a journalist to make a report and make it all at the forum, it means I know how to look, Minister. In other words, I don't come at random because I heard something, I read something, so it's very likely that I know a lot of things. I can't imagine it's bad. You're telling me here if we didn't see what happened last time. You're kidding me, aren't you? Now I've become a congressman. What do you want me to do? Should I ask in advance questions about the previous government? You come and you talk to me about the memorial policies. But are these serious things? Are you coming to tell me that I am defending Memorandum Policies and that it is generally to blame for the Memorandum Policies on these things? But one answer you didn't give us. First of all, in such previous questions as colleagues, you had come and said that it was all because of the previous administration of the PSC and that, while there is this management of the PSC, nothing can be done. For the sake of which I really couldn't understand, you didn't want to appoint an administration of the PSC. I hear you've done it now. Obviously, by noon, by about four - five, this had not been announced. Apparently, it's now known. But, if I'm not mistaken, the former HR commander had resigned to you since 19 May. You had nothing to do with not accepting it. Isn't that right? And today we have June 22nd. You come and tell me now that new administration has finally been appointed, and everything will be done, there is no link between the previous administration. I am very pleased and very much hope that the problems will be gone. Is it because of or is it not because of the money for the employees on the security? Are they or are they not due to cleanliness? Is it because of, or is it not because of, the overtime of the workers since January? Do you know that in Rhodes it needed 3,000 euros? You're telling me: 'HSH couldn't pay 60,000 euros?' Well, he couldn't. They needed 3,000 euros in Rhodes the other day in order for a machine to go down to the runway coating phase and there was no such money for that machine. You need to find a solution. You didn't answer anything here. You said that "not the plane like this" etc. You said a lot of words which, in fact, said nothing about the question that regional airports are at the mercy of the sun. And you're talking about the poetic mood? I imagine you can understand what I mean, that anyway, Greek tourism has a few things. He's got the sun, he's got the sea. But from there on, we also need infrastructure. I'd like to tell you something else, one where I found you. Very good, to accept that the cost is great, to accept that there are difficulties, to accept that policies are memorial and I do not know what else. Do you have a long-term strategy? What alternatives do you have? I would remind you of a question about the water roads, which I had submitted to you two, two and a half months ago, which, of course, was not answered within twenty-five days. It was a written question. You know very well that this could give new data to the aviation landscape, but neither are licences granted - there are too much - nor are answers given. So I wonder if you finally leave the opportunities offered by the law and the demand for this activity unexploited. These, Minister, and I may have to come back. Thank you very much, but I have so far not received any response from you but I have only taken reproach, nails and implying, which I do not deserve, and I ask you to withdraw.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Tahiau. Minister, you have the floor. Complete as soon as you can, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u79	Very soon. Mrs. Tachiau, I obviously have no precedent with you, but I read very carefully what you are writing in the current question and the people who are watching us draw their conclusions on whether you have received answers to your questions. You asked, firstly, when the necessary checks will be carried out on radio aid systems. I told you that it wasn't in the past, because the two planes that the PSC had had were out, they couldn't work. In the months that we are running, he left one, he went to Germany, he corrected, returned and remains the other one, which has to be replaced by a computing system of EUR 40,000. What answer didn't you get? The other question was: "How will you deal directly with the problem of airport operation?" I told you - and I repeat - that we have begun the recruitment of thirty-two new auditors, the re-introduction of the fired, the emergency grant of the PSC, the modernisation of telecommunications and electronic equipment, the treatment with the workers. I don't know what answer you want. As far as the others are concerned, which you are asking me to withdraw, what can I withdraw? You're writing them. Unless everyone else writes them. You say that "Greece is being crossed internationally with threats to strikes". Is the country a threat and if the workers come out and say that 'we are going to strike'? Is that how the country breaks? Is that the feeling you've got?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u80	It's because airports won't be safe, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u81	Mrs. Tachiau, please. You have developed your timely question. I gave you more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u82	Please. You're writing them. Do I write them? You say that "Greece is being crossed internationally by customers' evictions from five-star hotels that download rolls". Am I? "With irregular immigrants, who are now melted in Kos." Am I? You're writing them. I say that if the country breaks down because the workers say they want to make a strike, why did the 'INDELICE' were sold and why do we not have the immigrants who come for a better chance, impoverished as if they were animals, then what am I supposed to say? Am I going to twist them or are you writing them? Rescind what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u83	You're the ones who twist it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The first question under number 356/16-6-2015 of the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP Mr Athanasios Petrakos to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism regarding the compulsory registration of discounts and other benefits in the supermarkets' purchase tariffs is not discussed due to the Minister's obstruction. The second under number 347/15-6-2015 topical question of the First Cycle of the Parliamentary of Attica, New Democracy, George Vlachos, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the enormous omissions in the suppression of the factory's fire in Aspropyrgos, is not discussed. Also, the fifth question under number 361/16-6-2015 of the first-round question by the Member of the Communist Party of Greece, Stavros Tassos, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning measures to restore intra-cyclical ship communication, is not discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The sixth question will be discussed under number 341/12-6-2015, first question by the Member of Parliament, Achaias, the Independent Greeks, Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the projects of "ERGOSE". The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Christos Spirtzis. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u85	Madam President, I feel the need to refer to the principle of parliamentary scrutiny in this matter that stinks away. We are on June 30, 2012. There is a report in "ELLEROTYPIA": "How public money is lost in PPP and ERGOSE" and signed by the late Aristotle Bugatsu. I am invited by Mr Samaras and Mr Dimitris Stamatis, the later Minister of State, to contact Aristea Bougatsos. And since then, Minister and Mr Voridis - because he has also passed your hands - a file goes into which case has been filed, public prosecutors, but the party is holding well. And unfortunately, the ministers seem to be going through, changing the governments, but there. The Competition Committee is coming to do 'double' in the technical companies of the so-called 'pimps', those who are making the demonstrations that they are Europeans from the morning until the night, as if we were the dark ones. So these gentlemen come with a 2% discount to get works in systemed competitions. Here comes the Commission of Europe and takes the hard drives and catchs them with the sprout on the shoulder. We are asking for the conclusion, but the President of the Competition Committee does not bring it to the House. Let's go to Mrs. Riku, we're going to the prosecutors, we're going to the ministers and they're not answering. They think they're gonna get away with it. As the resigned Director-General of PPC, who today I went and sued him for a slandering defamation, thought he would come and say what Mr Bobolas came and said in court and was also condemned first-time, by the speaker, after a year, Madam President, to give a further statement on Mr. Melissanidis. After a year! They couldn't find - he says - his house. And I was invited to tell them about the threats. So we are here - the Minister has it - and I want to believe that I do not lose my words. Because - I have said it in particular, I say it publicly - I want to believe that it will be the exception, too, but also the government. We cannot at this time, when the new Greek government is negotiating hard to keep the pensions and wages of the inclusive Greeks from cutting off, giving millions of euros to the well-known pimps. Minister, I have already been to the third minute, and I know that the President will rightly interrupt me, but please, please, give us some answers to the very specific questions. Really, once a company was found to give 45% discount and prove how many frauds have been committed in the "ERGOSE" projects for formal hindrances, for formal reasons will we exclude it, so that they can come with 2%? Are you still going to let those accused still manage these cases? But they're accused, I don't blame them. Will they finally give us this conclusion of the Competition Committee? What is the reason for the long delay? Were there any pressures for cover-up? Will you take steps to get a result in control? Minister, you know, but don't tell you. I shall refer to the contents of the question. But you wouldn't have the alibi that you didn't even know about the party. Because from the time you were in the Technical Chamber, you raised these issues. Madam President, I expect the Minister to answer a question which Nikos Nikolaopoulos has not submitted. On these issues, my colleagues, not one but more than twenty-five, thirty-five Members of the SYRIZA, and those with very specific documentation came and said how it is possible to pay ten times the works and how it is possible that these days should come by side to ask for new pupils, those who do everything possible to keep us kneeling as a people, as a nation, as long as they are well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. You spoke five minutes and thirty seconds, Mr. Nicolopole. We'll be a little limited to dentistry. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Nicholas, with your timely question you once again highlight the chronic pathogens of the overall system of production of works in our country. It is also indicative that on the subject of your topical question you will mention the very small reductions in the projects of "ERGOSE" etc. I would stress your reference,'very small discounts'. We should have as a state another real modern system of invoicing technical work and material and therefore serious real budgets. Instead, we have an outdated system with other prices much higher than real and other much smaller ones. We therefore have very big problems in planning new projects, as well as in audits and evaluations. If we had a proper pricing system, we should have very small discounts. Today it is what we all know. Today with the distorting pricing system depending on the project, category, work, materials, there may be smaller or larger discounts. What you are complaining about, namely that the administrative and service actors of the "ERGOSE" invented the budgets of the projects, we will investigate it. The College of Public Work Inspectors has already been instructed. And - if you want - hold the referral for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practices.]] The new administration of the ERGOSE after the procedures provided for by Parliament will examine whether the tender under number 716, as you ask, will proceed if the legal procedures have been complied with or if it will be cancelled. The same applies to administrative agents, if your complaints are confirmed after the investigation we have ordered. Now in the third question, Mr Nicolopoulos, you raise one of the issues that I have raised, and I have personally fought to highlight them. You're asking me about the Competition Committee. I would ask you to extend your question to the National Telecommunications and Post Commission and to the other non-constitutionally regulated regulatory authorities. I have spoken before about the so-called independent authorities, which are more dependent than dependency. It is the new modern way of bypassing the Greek state, the Greek legislation and the Greek Parliament, the new way of direct intervention by some outside the country. Read the law governing the functioning of the Competition Committee, a regulatory authority that says it is independent, like the others, deliberately, to confuse their role with the five constitutionally guaranteed independent authorities. The Competition Committee acts as a principle above Parliament. It does not, as you have said, inform the EPC - its President does so. And he's even involved in unauthorized issues. I should like to inform you that there is no club or body of free professionals that the Competition Committee has not initiated any checks that it is a cartel. The Competition Committee has criminalised trade unions to the free traders. If you remember, two years ago, possibly three, she has condemned the country's largest scientific body, the Technical Chamber, as a cartel. He hasn't found another cartel since. And, of course, he looked into it by the way. Another case dealt with and incidentally convicted it as a cartel. And the targeting and commands he had received were to target scientific and professional bodies and abolish the minimum wages of engineers at that time. The Competition Committee has also dealt with the question of engineering skills and which subjects must have access to it. In other words, the Competition Committee will tell you if the one who makes you statically will not be a political engineer, but it will have to be another specialty. Because it is'special' in this matter by the Competition Committee. We're talking about insanity here. Similar and worse functions have the other regulatory so-called independent authority, without control, without accountability, with results being against society and defending the interests of the citizen. I believe that both the Members and the government should press for the overthrow of these superpowers of the regulators and for the revision of the legal framework governing their operation. It does not belong to the Competition Committee, but I can help. I also know about the OLAF you're asking. You will allow me, from the result, to function both principles, both European and national, to be absolutely reluctant.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Nicholas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u89	Madam President, I will also present the press reports to Mrs Ryku and the previous questions about those who will either want us to enter the Minutes and to find them for the services. But I would like my colleagues and fellow Members to point out that while a number of questions have been asked, the previous ministers have avoided coming or responding or rather responding with a cardboard answer, today the Minister has come here and said that he will do what he has to do, but that he has not been able to do. Really, do those who listen to us, Minister? Does the Minister, Ms. Valavani, think that virtual invoices, Mrs. Valavani, have been caught in the Ortho tunnel? They got caught, but they stay there, nobody minds. They're the ones who evaluate, they're the ones who make the new contracts now, the other day, yesterday. Is that possible? He said he'd look into it. Of course, but until he examines, they have to stay and put gold signatures? People are listening. Whatever you think. But I think neither God wants it nor the devil nor the law. I think the ESA should be done, examined. What's he doing again? Is that possible? Are we talking about pocket money? We're talking tens of millions. Madam President, the concession of the 'Olympia road' somewhere crosses the 'Olympia road' with the rail network. They knew it the first day, they knew it before it started, but they didn't do anything. Why? I have denounced it, for three years now, with frequent questions with all the governments. Some people think and say, "Were you not in government?" I have been here since 1989 doing what I think a Member of Parliament should do, that is to say, when they get to him, to come here and show the government, of course, where appropriate. Hey, listen. The other day, they discovered it, to give it - they did not resolve it - directly assign the required tasks to whom you say? To national contractors. To the well-known, "Kakor" and to all of them. I had asked - I repeat - a lot of questions. That is why I am saying now that we will leave these jurors undisturbed, the executives of the 'ERGOSE', who have taken the lead in this great fraud of standing competitions? And you'll move on, as right... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will stop with that, Madam President. So after this looting, after already dealing with justice, we will cover them, we will let the competition 716 be guaranteed to the company that reduced or let the volunteers of the national contractors lead back to their arms, as they have done before, and this case? Finally, Minister, I think we should listen to what these construction companies are and what projects are controlled by this Committee on Competition by Mr Kyatsakis - if I am not mistaken, if I say so - on how independent they are. Now, my colleague is missing the river river, to hear about the sewer! You know, Minister - you may not know - who is the President of the independent authority told by my colleague and the degree of family that she had with the former Prime Minister? You can't know that. Like Mrs Valavani, she cannot know who the Secretary-General of the ILO, the Kalamon party chief of the former prime minister, was.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Nicolopoulou, it is good not to report to missing colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u91	These were the independent authorities, these were the independent persons who would control the prime ministers. I hope that we will not be here a while later and say that the new government, unfortunately, stayed in the pimps' resentment, but the party will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u93	Mr Nicolopoulou, may I repeat that it has already been given - and I have tabled the corresponding document - an order of inquiry by the Public Works Inspectorate, which belongs to the Ministry, for the 'ERGOSE'. The Minister can't do this investigation in relation to the complaints you made. The second is obviously for this competition 716. That's a commitment. The new administration will examine whether or not it will proceed, whether or not the legal procedures and all the other matters that you have raised have been complied with. With regard to the Competition Committee, however, for the question you have asked today, I will read it out to you: 'It is also known to the Member', said Mr Kyritsakis, 'that the checks and investigations carried out by the Competition Committee are confidential'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u94	Oh, no?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u95	‘... and are governed by a very strict restrictive framework, both at national and Union level. Therefore, we repeat that we cannot provide more information or information on cases under investigation, as well as on the tenders controlled.’;
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u96	Mrs Konstantopoulou has answered about the confidentiality in the Greek Parliament and Mr Stournara.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u97	I know. I am simply tabling the document to inform Parliament and also to pressure all of us to review the framework that so-called independent regulators, who are not independent, are not constitutionally regulated. It's another thing. And with the legal framework that is currently working, especially some of them like the Competition Committee, they are overspending Parliament. In other words, they are making FEKs with comments on the bills that Parliament is voting on, so that the European Commission or another will then come and force Parliament to change the legislation that it has passed. I believe that you know these things and we must finally change them immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u98	Madam President, may I make a comment if I may?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u99	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u100	Because the Minister, whom I thank once again, has referred to the coal, the burning coal in his hands and the government, I would ask you, either from the step, from the position you have, or from another chance to inform the executive that we have the arsenal and can write them in their old shoes. There is nothing secret from Parliament. They are obliged to bring them, and you know that, and the Rules and the Constitution provide for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u101	Good, I would just say, if you did not take the floor arbitrarily, Mr Nicolopoulos, that the approach of the Minister is very important and serious, and perhaps this should also be a matter for discussion of the relevant committee of the House. Thank you, Mr. Minister. We now move on to the debate of the first under number 355/16-6-2015 topical question of the second-round question of the Parliamentary Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysolas Katsavrias - Siloropoulou to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, on the use of water resources in the Plastira and Sokovos lakes. The Deputy Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism will answer Mr Christos Spirtzis. I say to all sides, that is to say, to the Members and to the ministers, that we should keep the time, so that we do not delay our colleagues too. Mrs. Katsavria, you have the floor. We will, of course, show a tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I ask you this question, as in the area of Karditsa, as in other areas, incorrect management and use of water resources has caused serious problems both in the environment and irrigation. I would like to draw your attention to the following problem. While the state has created two reservoirs, Smokovos and Tavropou, who can satisfy the irrigation most of the Karditsa Prefecture, unfortunately due to the incomplete and inappropriate correction and repair of the old works, but also to the continuation of the old way of irrigation of crops we have great losses in water, fragmentation of irrigation and, most importantly, other farmers pay expensive and others cheaply the water they consume. As a result of all this, farmers are confronted by unequal treatment, but also by a lack of water for water. It is therefore necessary, firstly, to examine whether the way the projects are managed by the land improvements organisations, which are different in each region, creates this different costing of water. Also, in order to save water and not to break down, farmers need to adopt modern irrigation techniques, leaving old waterborne methods and techniques. In our economic crisis, of course, in order for this to happen, farmers must be financially helped and able to access the various forms of grants from the programmes, without the great amount of bureaucracy and the demands that discourage them. In view of the above, we have made clear and specific questions concerning: Firstly, the creation of a management body that can assess the needs of crops and other uses of the area, monitor and enforce the rational use and fair distribution of water, protect the environment and contribute to the development of the area and strengthen the income of its inhabitants. Secondly, the construction and extension of closed water transmission networks in both Smokov Lake and Plastira Lake. Thirdly, the financial support and the replacement of old irrigation systems with new water saving systems, staging irrigation. Fourthly, the restoration of the injustices relating to access to the social asset called water and the reduction of the cost shear between producers in the same area serving the network or state drilling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Katsavria. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, I share the concern you express for both the region and the country's aquatic wealth in general and the way we manage it. Unfortunately, there is also an administrative chaos in this area. In particular, with regard to the first question you are asking, the establishment of a management body per water basin, I would like to say that this is related to the responsibilities of the General Secretariat of Waters of the Ministry of Production Reconstruction. We therefore have to reach an agreement. As far as I know, however, in order to proceed with this, we need to complete the studies that have been carried out a few months ago for the management basins, the aqueducts, etc. As far as the second question is concerned, I would like to tell you that for the Smokov irrigation networks the project is a budget of 100,000 000. The study needs to be updated, and we can commit ourselves to moving on. In order to implement the project, however, it is to be incorporated into the Operational Programme ‘Agrarian Development 2014-2020’. I have already contacted the Deputy Minister, so you and the bodies in the final plan will also press for him to join the Ministry of Rural Development and then the Ministry of Infrastructure will implement it. Just, as you can see, there are too many operators from different ministries involved in overall management. And it is not just about irrigation works or others, which the former Georgia or the Public Works can do, to involve the Production Reconstruction Secretariat, the General Secretariat for Water. That's what's going on in everything. It is also happening in natural disasters and in their rehabilitation, it is also done in the management of water where we have dams everywhere. So what we have a responsibility - and it is also a commitment - is that we will proceed to another overall management system for the country's water wealth, to simplify the whole system that we have today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I have the floor with my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I know that this is a very complex matter and it concerns more than one Ministries, but it is a very important issue that has been in the region for years, and that is why we should all bend together to see it and see how we can solve all these complex problems. We therefore expect a solution to be found that satisfys and solves the problem of management bodies that are not only local in Karditsa, but it concerns the whole territory. We insist, however, on this, because management bodies will be able to assess the requirements of crops in water, make adequate drainage of water, with no waste and a single invoicing, control compliance with the obligations of service users, and proper operation and maintenance of the networks. As regards the closed network of Lake Smokovos, whose works have been stopped for some time, the Ministry should immediately ensure that they are continued and completed, and here I must tell you that the initial study has been revised and updated and is submitted to the relevant Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u107	Not to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u108	We'll see about that, I can get you some specific evidence. Its costs are significantly less than the original amount, and not much, in relation to the benefits to be gained for the region. It is equally important that the construction of the closed network for Plastira-Tavropus Lake, the network of which is open and extends over a distance with moats and eight hundred and fifty kilometres canals. Very often, Minister, the canals break, causing great crop damage, losing valuable water and maintenance costs are very high. In view of the above, it is necessary to speed up these procedures, because this year we will also have a set-aside between farmers on the subject of water in the region. With regard to funding very targeted development programmes, farmers need less bureaucracy so that small investment is immediately subsidised and does not need to deposit whole studies costing both in time and in money. In particular, I am thinking of the possibility of replacing the old irrigation systems with water saving systems. Drain irrigation is a targeted intervention that will help save the quantity of water up to 40%, will reduce the inputs by making targeted lubrication and increase production by more than 20%. There are studies in both Greece and abroad on this subject. In this way we reduce the cost of irrigation and at the same time increase irrigation. Minister, I am sure you will consider with sensitivity a major problem that has been facing the rural world for years and you will ensure that a substantial solution is given immediately to the sustainable management of water resources, to the issues of administration, operation and maintenance of irrigation networks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u109	Thank you to my fellow Member, who was also in her time. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u110	I wish that the study has been updated by another body. I should like to state that I am told by the Ministry's services in a document dated 18 June that the study needs to be updated, but to date the corresponding funds for implementation have not been found. I'll give it to you. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practices.]] Obviously, I agree with all the rest that you have said, but most of them concern the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction and, more specifically, the part that has to do with agriculture, as with the General Secretariat for Water Management. We are involved in the construction of projects and commit that - and in consultation with the Ministers responsible - we will be leaning over this particular issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The second question, under number 348/15-6-2015, on the adoption of a joint Ministerial Decision (CDE) on the settlement of outstanding issues of the Municipal Waste Water and Wastewater Operation of Chios (Norway) will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of State. We will now discuss the fourth question with number 325/9-6-2015, on the completion of the project on the "Moreas" motorway. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Spirtzis. Mr. Voridis, you have the floor for two minutes, of course with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Madam President. By making a small decline, with your permission, Madam President, I must point out that I see a slight change in the way the demonstrators are treated today in particular. Because yesterday I saw no police, and the protesters went up with the open door policy adopted by the President in Parliament, and today I see that they have stretched out at the entrance of Parliament. I assume that it has nothing to do with the ideological opinions or beliefs of the protesters, and that this is a constant and permanent change in the open door policy that we have had so far. I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u113	Didn't they come up the other day?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u114	I'm talking about today, Mr. Nicholas, for the moment, for the moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u115	Because the other day I saw you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u116	I'm here, of course. So I'm talking about now. That was a misdemeanor. So I'm coming now...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u117	First time in a protest, huh?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u118	You obviously don't know my story.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u119	I know her very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u120	If you knew her, you wouldn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Darkness, please. Mr. Voridis, you managed to light up the blood. Let's move on to the question, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u122	Let's move on to the question, Madam President. In an introductory statement, Mr President, I will not be answering as the previous speakers have said: 'The Memorandum of Understanding', 'the previous ones have done', 'we have received, we have done, we have had a chance'. You will tell me what you have done, as Minister. Is that right? Not with this response style that I received and had a fund-raiser. You received what you received, you knew what you received, and now we're going to what you've done. Why, beware of, 30 days ago, SYRIZA - ANEL rule did not begin. You have five months. So you've got things done. I come to the point: 'Moreas'. So I want a clear answer here. What are you thinking of doing with the work? This work is complete, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, at 92.5%. What do we still have to do? We still have the district of Kalamata, and we also have the road that connects the Lefktras, so basically with Sparta. They are central to both issues: Kalamata's regional design, as you can see, is part of the whole design of the axles, in perspective. You haven't denied it, but I hear about that if there's any new design. But you haven't refused it. It's what's going to connect to Chacona. So it is actually on a motorway now - and it is completed - the round of the Peloponnese, when the works are completed. The district of Kalamata is therefore important to Kalamata itself. In Lefktra, it is important because it now connects Sparta to a motorway. It is a huge project for the Laconia Prefecture, which, from all the prefectures of the Peloponnese, has been left alone with the old road network. This is a huge issue for the tourist development of the county, a huge issue for the movement of products, a huge issue for the movement of citizens. The project is complete by 92.5%. As you know, there was a question of renegotiation of the contract. I'm sure you know that. This renegotiation, due to substantially differentiation of the financial elements of the project, has been completed in the near future and approved by the European Commission for State aid, so that there is no problem with State aid. So there is a decision by the European Commission in this regard. We are in the draft agreement amending the concession agreement and it does not go any further. Is he going to move on? Here, I want your things, your will for what your government will do and what the Deputy Minister, Mr Spirtzis, will do on this big issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Vorides. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u124	Mr Voridis, thank you very much for your evaluations of how I respond to current questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u125	What can we do? That's dialectic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u126	You do not like it, but you will allow us to remind you of what the Greek people have been through over the past five years. Obviously, we will commit ourselves to the solutions that we are going to give. I know this is bothering you with what you've done. What can we do, though? We want to remind them. I also congratulate you for coming out of the geographical boundaries of your region and you are interested in Kalamata and Sparta.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u127	I've been at your ministry, as you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u128	I know. I know. The ‘Morea’ motorway is the only concession contract that was not revised in December 2013. You are aware of the Government's positions on existing concessions. In our view, these are contracts which do not take care of the economic situation of the country, of the opportunities for citizens to use motorways. These conventions do not take into account the development conditions that we must shape to get out of the crisis and the unfavourable conditions and problems that have arisen in local communities and municipalities from which they pass. Our proposal, given that we inherited five specific concessions, is clear. We inherited five, not four.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u129	Five.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u130	Five. Firstly, we will not force the Greek people to pay billions of euros in clauses from the non-implementation of the conventions that we have inherited. So we will respect all five conventions as they apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u131	Will you keep them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u132	I say this again: all five conventions, not the four that you have revised. All five will be respected, as they are today. The only differences that will exist, Mr Vorides, are that there will now be what the state is obliged to do and never happened: control. There will be control of the works, control of what reports the independent engineer gives us. Of course, the state's obligations will also be promoted - archaeology, expropriations, etc. - so the Greek people don't pay any clauses.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u133	I'm sorry, what will archaeology do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u134	The archaeological work and expropriations, which are the responsibility of the Greek State under the contracts, will be completed, because for 13 years now they have not been completed, with the result that the Greek people, the Greek citizen, have paid additional costs to the concessionaires. This was due to the four works that came to the House two years ago. The revision of the contracts is foreseen. Nothing was predicted. I've said it before. At first Mr. Souflias didn't know, he didn't ask, and he put that in six months it's all over. After eleven years no one knew what expropriations left and what archaeological work? Secondly, we seek and negotiate a change in contract terms. In particular: firstly, the reduction of tolls and their identification with indicators that will take account of the economic situation of the citizens. Secondly, the free movement of citizens to the limit of their municipality where there is no safe alternative to crossing. Thirdly, at least fifty free transit for permanent residents for twenty-five kilometres from their permanent residence, where there is also no safe alternative. Fourthly, the free passage of our fellow citizens with disabilities and special categories. Fifthly, the establishment of a single electronic, analogue kilometre charging system for users. Sixthly, the suspension of the persecution of the citizens who reacted to the implementation of these anti-social conventions. Therefore, if all concessions or similar concessions - you know what similar concessions are, because you have passed by the Ministry - agree on this, the new agreement will come to Parliament for a vote. The Morea Convention will therefore also come. If we do not agree with the concessionaires on the above-mentioned changes that take into account both the needs of the project and the needs of society, the Morea Convention will not be amended, and the concessionaire must continue and complete the work with his contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Vorides has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u136	Mr Minister, of course, you will respond as you wish, of course, we will be on your responses. And by the way, because you're doing these reminders "What happened to the Greek people" and all these nice and loud, I would suggest that, with all the appreciation, - because we have worked together with you - to keep a small basket, because with what I hear, what the Greek people have been through, it will be a mess in front of the Memorandum Left, which you will represent in a three-day period. In any case, however, this is what we are talking about. But I come to this. As far as I understand it, Minister, you are entering a logic of a comprehensive renegotiation of contracts, because if you change this data - and I do not want to open the debate more widely on the contracts, because this is also a great debate and it is important that you say so clearly - there is a huge issue here. The huge issue is that the economic viability of projects that, as you know, are, to a very large extent, linked to the traffic burden is in fact linked to the estimates made on it and it is obviously also linked to the operating costs of the concession, the time, the tolls. These are all things that are negotiable. So you are entering a debate from the outset, and first of all, it costs too much time, where the work remains stable. So, in fact, you're "false" the works at a time when the economy has no room. Secondly, you refer to a project that is 92.5% complete. What to renegotiate for the whole project when 7.5% of the project is left to complete? You commit the areas, without the project being completed with all the beneficial effects. Look, I'm not telling you now about the recruitment of workers and the increase in work and all that, which is all. I say: beneficial consequences from the very operation of the project. Infrastructural projects are not for fun. They have not been paid and all this money is paid, because so or to create jobs. They're paid because they've got a huge financial effect. It is very important for local communities. They expect these projects to be opened, because, in essence, the economy in the region is blossoming by facilitating the movement. And you say that you will freeze these in a renegotiation process. I remind you, Minister, because you have now lived through this, you know that, you are not one of the ignorant other colleagues who have not contacted the subject - that the last time this was attempted to do so, the projects have been frozen for four years. Here you are at a very great risk, because it is important to say what will happen with archaeology, which has its own responsibility, I will say, as with the judicial system which has its own responsibilities for expropriations, as with the administration which also has responsibility for expropriations, but you are the one who raises a question of changing the financial data of the project. In fact, you leave the work out at the moment. A negotiated convention, with approvals, completed by the European Commission, you say that you will not go ahead with it. And I am talking specifically about 'Moreas', although, in my view, there is a wider ratio, I am not differentiating it. However, Morea has the following additional feature: it is a project almost finished. You cannot go ahead with a decision to complete this process and, on the contrary, put all these nice maximalist goals that will open the whole negotiation on the economic object of the project and its viability. In my view, Mr Minister - and I say this clearly - it is necessary to finish the work. It's important to the area. The residents are expecting it. It's almost complete. It is a pity by the god to stick to something that I once again tell you we have had experience of this policy. It was followed by your predecessors - I do not want to name them - who have basically froze the motorways by leaving them incomplete. And I will end up telling you that all this has been done against the public, because you know the clauses that exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u137	I'll testify for one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u138	To the damage of the public! This policy of delay has never resulted in public benefit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Vorides. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u140	Thank you. Mr. Voridis, you probably didn't understand me. I said two things: the first thing I said is that we will respect the existing conventions all five. In particular, 'Morea', of course, there is the issue of the EIB and I shall refer specifically to that. So there is no reason to stick the works, as they had been stuck in the past, either for one year or for two or four. We're upholding the contracts. The State will obviously, according to the contracts, be the same thing as the concessionaires. It cannot be the State alone on the disadvantaged side of compliance with the conventions. Now it is not the state, with the exception - because I want to tell Parliament the truth - a slight delay from the General Accounting Office in order to get paid because of the crisis. I believe that by tomorrow we will have finished this with the great deal of negotiation or by Thursday. And don't rush to celebrate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u141	We're not celebrating.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u142	Don't be in a hurry to celebrate, because you won't be happy. My opinion is that it is a challenge for the Greek people who suffer six years to discuss how private banks are guaranteed without risk, since we are talking about this task and about concessions, without taking into account the economic situation of the state and citizens. The European Investment Bank is understandable to everyone that it has a different role. It's not private. This does not mean, however, that without the change of the philosophy of all the parties to concession projects, which will take equal account of both society and projects, we will proceed to a new agreement. You're the ones who committed yourself. You did well. The case, as you know, has been sent for too many months in the ministry's closets, is at the Court of Auditors and we expect to see whether the Court of Auditors will approve it or not.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u143	If he says yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u144	We'll see. It is not binding on the government. We believe other things and I'll explain them now. The total budget for the project, Mr Voridis, is EUR 844 500 000. In addition, 68,445,375,92 euros were granted as a result of the delay in signing the contract by decision of the then Minister of the New Democracy, Mr Souflia. I'm going to testify to this decision. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practices.]] Have you ever seen that before in this ministry, Mr. Voridis? You've served as Minister in this ministry. Would you sign a compensation agreement because there was a delay in signing the contract six months and eight months? I'm asking. It's close to 70 million. It has not even been calculated in the financial model. We're gonna put it on? Other things have not been calculated, of course, in the financial model, such as the cost of expropriations, as if they were in another work, as if they were not paid by the Greek people and the Greek public. Anyway. We're going through this, too. Of these, then, 905 million, the original ones plus the delays, which were not already foreseen or played if they were to be expected - they were not so clean - the concessionaires have received 359 million from the Greek State, the concessionaires have taken 128 million of the 150 from the European Investment Bank and 828.7 million, according to the figures given to us by the agency, from the commercial banks. Aggregation is much bigger. I want to tell you why. Because part of them is the long-term borrowing planned and another part is the short-term and will obviously repay it from the state's participation. It is obvious - you know - that Morea has a difference in relation to other concessions. The banks financed this project from the outset, while the other concessions did not grant it from the outset. They had the upper hand and said: "We will leave the projects, because we have not put a euro, unless you give us a higher interest rate, collateral, etc." This is not the case, however, because we are talking about negotiation, to see how this government is negotiating.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u145	These are the ones we have understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u146	We'll see the result too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u147	That's the ones we've seen. Four billion so far. If you're going to do the deal, don't do it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u148	You will see how this government is negotiating for both concessions and overall for the previous and previous concessions, because it is not just the previous one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u149	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u150	I shall conclude, Madam President. I want Mr. Voridis to understand, because he was in the same ministry. Even if we need to ensure the money provided by the EIB, we will agree on the following reason: First, the EIB provides 23% lower burden for thirty years than the other private commercial banks. Why would we agree that? Secondly, to maintain a high and stable base rate. In other words, EURIBOR was over 4.5%, and today it is close to zero. Derivate plus other than zero. Are we going to agree to 4.5%?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u151	But the EIF wouldn't come in otherwise. You know that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u152	The MIP wouldn't come in. Let me agree with you. Then why should the terms of the EIB, which the EIB would not enter, be assimilated to private banks and their financing? The private banks and the concessionaire will take the risk that they have a contract or will they charge it all to the Greek people? What for? So, you went to the stores that closed down and owed the banks, and you said you'd secure the loans and without negotiation? Mr Voridis, we do not hold such a position, but we will not bring a concession to the House without retreating to the seven general principles which we have or at least to some, with the agreement of the concessionaires. And that's what I think is perfectly clean. Otherwise, the concessionaires should continue the contract that the Greek public and they should carry out and implement it. We have to sit down and look, because you're on fire for Kalamata's perimeter and Sparta.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u153	And you burn!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u154	I'm on fire, too. We must therefore sit down and consider whether it is more appropriate to give this money to the private banks or to the concessionaire, or what is best for the rest of the public work. Shouldn't we consider what the Greek State is doing? Let's see it! So we have five contracts. We respect them with religious reverence and with religious reverence we also expect the concessionaires' views to agree on these changes, which are due both to Greek society and the Greek state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We now go to the fifth, with number 326/9-6-2015, a topical question of the second question of the new Republic MP Evros, Anastasios Purchas, to the Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the completion of the vertical Egnatia Road in Evros. The Deputy Minister of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism will answer Mr Christos Spirtzis. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u156	Madam President, in today's globalised economy transport and so-called logistics are an essential sector for every national and local economy, which looks forward to progress and development, within a road safety environment. The safe, intact and rapid transfer of persons and things ensures economic prosperity and growth, but also the freedom of people in the end and not only. Unfortunately, in Evros, Minister, there is a downturn in the development of those infrastructures and networks, which would help to ensure the safety and speed of transport. In particular, with regard to the question which we are discussing today, on the vertical roads of the New Egnatia Road, Armenia - Ormene, the nominee part of the E-85 axis presents serious problems with regard to its completion, namely the Mandra - Psathadas section, 13 km long. This is a road that was first planned in the 1990s to start in 2004. The date of signature of the original contract was 9-1-2004. The first company was closed and replaced in 2012. Date of signature of substitution contract: 14-2-2012. Today, the contractor is facing problems again. You, Minister, are aware, I believe, of the reasons why you have left a project of more than EUR 60 million at the Regional Operational Programme of Macedonia - Thrace 2007-2013. In addition, the previous government ensured legislation in order to allow the contractor to supply inert material from the wider region, without having to resort to remote areas, by raising construction costs. Now it remains to be signed, and you must, Minister, speed it up. The project is calculated to be delivered at the end of 2015, already with a six-month delay in relation to the contractual closing date. If the company's substitution procedures are not accelerated, then the project will be delayed - with everything that implies in lost opportunities for the region - and the workers and the workshops of local professionals will remain without their remuneration. Furthermore, we do not know whether European funds could be at risk of being committed and destined for this. Minister, this project must finally be completed and the vertical axis must be delivered as a whole, in the context of an upgrade of the role and position of Evros internationally, as this completion is a fundamental need to achieve the vision of an Evros - a model for all and a transit hub, linking the Southeastern Mediterranean through the Aegean Sea to Central Europe, through a new maritime Egnatia, from the Near East to the Danube and the heart of Europe. It does not provide an honor to Greece's image to conduct international trade through a dangerous and misused road, which has been watered by blood. Perix of Psathades alone - the village of Dumotech - the road accidents have resulted in a two-digit number of dead and tens injured. That is why I am tabling a detailed list of road accidents. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios (Tsos) Practicis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I can say that so far we have had eleven dead, forty-seven seriously and slightly injured, in a total of ninety-three road accidents. It does not care for a price in the modern Greek state over thirteen kilometres to have this blood tax. Finally, the sections from Mandra to Ammorio can play - so it is designed - and the role of abundant in the adjoining settlements, as you yourself have seen, Minister, who recently visited Evros after the flooding phenomena that the law faced. The damage, of course, which they caused has not yet been cured, has not been restored and there is already a risk. By September 30th, the county is in an emergency. From there on we go to the autumn season and winter, and there's a danger...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u157	Mr. Prison, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u158	Madam President, this is a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u159	I don't doubt it, but we're already in five minutes, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u160	Excuse me very much, Madam President. I shall speak with as few words as possible. We also have a problem of material - and I will shortly give you a document from the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace - because it cannot guarantee the materials to restore the two hundred sixty cracks, which, if they are not restored in the time we have left, will be terrible in relation to the winter we have faced. Minister, on the basis of the above, you ask: First of all, if you intend to ensure that the project is completed in the year as a whole. Secondly, if you have proceeded with the creation of a comprehensive transport upgrading plan, especially in Evros, taking advantage of the region's prospects, because we are close to a large city called Istanbul. A New York is standing near our border. A great country is developing too, instead of moving fast, we are going backwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr. Prussakis. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u162	Mr Prussakis, I agree that the situation of this dangerous and misguided road does not look to Greece's image. What is the history of the project in Mandra - Pssadia? You know that. I would just mention it for the Greek people to be informed. The initial contract was made on 9 January 2004 with the company ‘BIOTER’. In 2012, the contractor was replaced by a new contractor. Which company was the new contractor to proceed with the project? The 'EAGGF Construction'. I do not think I need to mention the problems and the number of questions in this House about the projects undertaken by the 'AGEC'. You all know it. Thursday I inform the commission responsible for the Thessaloniki Metro. What can we do? That's all we received. Obviously, we intend to complete and deliver the works, particularly to Evros. You understand that. We will not, however, continue to hold the Greek state and the Greek society hostages to those who are afflicting the whole country, inflicting extortion, whether toward society or toward project workers, with the aim of obtaining additional money from the Greek people. Because this has been done for too many years and we will not continue with it. This in relation to the highway. The responsible service "GENNATIONAL LEVEL" informs us that it has been consulted with the company that has the project to re-entry and re-start it. If he doesn't, we won't go to the same logic as previous governments. I give you the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, Christos Spirtzis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practices.]] As far as the railway line is concerned, we unfortunately did not receive planning, ripe projects and projects, not only for the vertical railway axis, but also for the Thessaloniki - Alexandroupolis line. Our intention, Madam President, to be finalised by autumn, is to include studies so that we can incorporate the studies as well as the implementation of the whole railway line Thessaloniki - Alexandroupolis - Ormini, since you know much better than I do the value of these projects in general for northern Greece and, in particular, Thrace. From there on other projects planned, you will see them in the Agency's reply. We will pay particular attention to modernising the country's entry facilities, except for road and rail projects. We are now considering whether or not their connections can be integrated until we have the final table with the port of Alexandroupolis. I know the problem with materials. I have informed the relevant Deputy Minister. You know, Mr Papoutsis, that, for many years now, only one quarry has been operating south of the county and the cost of the projects has risen a great deal when we need materials in the north or the middle section of the county in order to make the projects. In the area we have many peculiarities both with Evros and with the other rivers. Obviously, the relevant Ministry and the Region must cooperate. He's not in our ministry, unfortunately. I think that Mr. Tsironis has already made a relative prediction in collaboration with the Thrace Region, so that there is at least one or two quarries in the county, so that the cost of the projects falls. It is also a request from all the municipalities in the region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u164	The vertical road axis of the new Egnatia Road of Armenia - Ormene is not only a requirement of a local nature to facilitate the movement of the Evrites, but also to stop watering this road with blood. That's too heavy. One cannot be forgiven for these figures I have submitted to you. We also believe in the conversion of Evros into a transit hub, because, Minister - and I believe we all agree on this - we may say that Greece is small, but I mean that our minds are small and our eyes are wrong. We have a Greece that's great. Evros can be a transit hub. If we bring the map to our minds, we have a New Ennatia, which starts in Igoumenitsa and arrives in Istanbul. What does he want to do to pull this long road? Vertical axes. The vertical axis has become the bridge of Arta. It's not right. He doesn't care for anyone. On the other hand, we have a second vertical artery, as you said before, the railway line. These, if they arrive in Ormene, that's where the two arteries can reach the Danube. From the Danube can reach Central and Northern Europe very easily. You know that my relative - to forgive me, Madam President - was bringing agricultural machinery through the port of Piraeus. A German, with whom he cooperated, told him there was another road, the river called Danube. Every truck won 7,500 euros. These were the benefit of the buyer, of course, and the seller. I would like to say that there is a need for a sea New Ennatia, which should "walk" on the Egnatia Road. They leave the boats from Suez and they will either go left to Gibraltar or to the terminal port that is Alexandroupolis and we have left and right so many ports. From there easily, through the port of Alexandroupolis, they can reach their destination in North and Central Europe and, of course, to the East. We have the airport. I think it is a unique opportunity for Evros to make use of his geostrategic position, because the benefits will be very important for the whole region. Apart from that, I would like to say and stress that the transit hub can also evolve into an energy hub. The so-called "Bourgas - Alexandroupolis" can bring us all the products with the two vertical arteries, road and rail, at the port of Alexandroupolis. I think, Minister, that you can do this vision. You have experience. Your colleagues in Thrace trust you. You've been honoured repeatedly. It is an opportunity to return it not by a vote but by a positive work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr. Prussakis. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr. Treasury. I fully share the need that you stressed in your position to make use of the Evros Prefecture in general, as well as in Thrace. Because to me Thrace has honored me differently. She's been hosting me for several years, since that's where I was studying. Apart from that - personal things have to be done with me - the vertical axis and the port of Alexandroupolis must play another role and we must have a very modern rail and road network and railway Egnatia. Unfortunately - and we will fight for this - Alexandroupolis has not joined the European ports. You know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u167	Sure, I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u168	And we are now considering how we will be able to amend this mistake, in my opinion, which has been made for other reasons. The government's commitment is obvious and I have told you, and what is our concern at the moment, in relation to mature these railway projects, to have studies and to implement them, to have timely money from a financial programme or from a package, so that we can implement them. I believe in the cooperation of all the parties in Thrace to proceed with these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr Spirtzi, for responding with a lot of detail and making a great deal of violation of the years, not now to the last but to the previous time-consuming questions. However, it was very informative and enlightening. I am keeping, Minister, if I may, one of the seven very important commitments you have made previously in relation to stopping persecution against the citizens who have protested. It is very important and many people expect you to legislate on time. Allow me to do this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u170	We may not have to legislate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u171	Good, even better. As long as the people's persecutions are stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u172	Wait a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u173	Here you go, Mr. Public.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u174	I would like to deliver to the Minister a two-day document from the Region of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. It is a cry of agony through the document on the safeguarding of materials, that is to say, the soil necessary to restore all damage, all the cracks, which, Minister, in the impurities are about two hundred sixty of the number. You realise that if we have a weather phenomenon from September, not only will our products be drowned, our crops in the plain but our villages will also be drowned.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u175	I'll pick it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u176	I'll hand it over to you, and at the same time I'll give you the roads on which...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u177	Thank you. Be well, Mr. Prisoner. The sixth question, under number 319/8-6-2015, is the second question of the Member of Parliament, Aetolocarnania, of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Konstantinos Barbarousi, Minister for Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, concerning the operation of a new toll station in the bypass of Agrinio, is not discussed due to a move by the MP. Also, the eighth Question No 219/14-5-2015 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the provocative action of Skopje in Florina, is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment. Similarly, the ninth Question No 234/18-5-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on bilateral relations with neighbouring countries and the declaration of the Greek exclusive economic zone, is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment. We are going to the debate of the third under number 324/9-6-2015 topical question by Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) rustoliakou to the Minister of Finance on tobacco smuggling. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Olga Nadia Valvani. Mr. Darkdog, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, Minister, I have the honour of presenting a topical question on the 'Smuggling of tobacco' issue. A huge risk to public health and the multi-substantiated Greek economy." It happens that this question is being discussed at the moment, these hours, which the Prime Minister of the country out there with his associates negotiates to get out of this grim landscape in which we were thrown by the previous governments, the previous political forces who ruled this place, which have the exclusive copyright of our introduction into such situations and in which we recognise the exclusive property of intellectual rights for how you can poore a country and a people. Madam Minister, in recent years there has been a rapid increase in the illicit trade in cigarettes and in bulk tobacco. According to its investigation ‘A.C. NIELSEN’, the illegal cigarette trade in September 2013, reached 19.5% of 13.4% in 2012. In other words, 4.4 billion illegal cigarettes were consumed, an increase of 340% compared to 2009, which was a billion illegal cigarettes, while the state, according to serious estimates, lost around EUR 600 million - IOB data from 2013 - from foregone excise and VAT revenues. The causes are many, but above all it is the economic crisis that has plagued our country for the past five years. It is no coincidence that this outbreak of the phenomenon occurs in large cities with problems, such as Athens, Piraeus, Thessaloniki, areas where the inhabitants were most affected by the economic crisis. The retail trade is made by the people of society, by very poor people who are forced to emigrate to survive. The retail trade is everywhere in Athens and it is said that the clocks of EKDAP operate on the sidewalks of the center of Athens. The consequences of this whole story are many. First of all, of course, there is an increase in organised crime. State revenues have also been reduced. I said that in 2013 alone, we lost about EUR 600 million. Many jobs are lost and revenue from the legal chain of tobacco production, industry and commerce. There is a fall in sales, and fifty thousand jobs are threatened, involving the owners of stand-alone and small shops living from this cigarette trade, and they cannot cope with it. Of course, there is also uncontrolled access to illegal cigarettes for minors. Also, Minister, there is a great risk to public health. Illegal tobacco products are not subject to any quality control during their production and minimum hygiene conditions are not complied with. According to analyses by the State General Chemistry, heavy metals, tobacco waste, foreign materials such as animal hair, feathers, pieces of plastic and chemical additives of unknown composition and origin have been detected in their content. We can therefore see that the outbreak of the smuggling of tobacco has a huge effect on both the Greek economy and health. On the basis of the above, you are asking - the question was also to the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, which has sent us an answer, to which I shall refer in my dentistry - how and in what way do you intend to deal with this phenomenon, which has serious consequences for the Greek economy and for the health of citizens and how the co-legislative ministries will deal with the prospect of tightening up existing legislation on trafficking in tobacco products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr. Darkness. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Data on the level of smuggling at international level are not confirmed. In the European Union, OLAF itself - the European Anti-Fraud Office - finds that the nature of the illicit trade in tobacco products makes it particularly difficult to estimate the volume and quantity of smuggling and, on the other hand, to assess the annual economic loss of tobacco traffic for each of the Member States of the European Union. Against this background, it is estimated that the loss is between EUR 400 million and EUR 800 million a year, depending on who makes each estimate. OLAF, in contact with the Member States, is attempting to discuss a know-how which will make it possible to have a commonly accepted and scientifically valid valuation methodology. As far as the causes of tobacco smuggling are concerned at international level are concerned, they have to do - and you yourself have already referred to Greece - the crisis that limits incomes and has raised unemployment in the European Union to 12%, which is historically a record number, so that their customers are the poorest social strata and, above all, the unemployed and, as you yourself pointed out, young people. It is also about the more effective organisation of the activities of organised crime that runs illegal tobacco products at the gates of entry of the smuggling of tobacco into Europe, one of the most serious of which is our country. Especially in Greece, where in recent years the epidemic has been diagnosed, despite the efforts of the prosecution authorities, it has to do with stripping the customs and other prosecution mechanisms, from the ILO to the Port, from the adequate and well-trained - before all - human resources, the 'tsunami' of early retirements, which were pushed by the prosecution mechanisms in these years of the memorandum. It's about stripping out of material media they need, starting with the special scanners, and not the cheap ones that an international competition is running for at the moment, but the expensive ones, from which nothing can be hidden, and even the composition of what they discover in the trucks or containers that weigh on them. It is about the dismantling, in the name of simplification, of the way in which controls are carried out, at least in smuggling cigarettes, which do not pass tranjit to the countries of Northern Europe from our country. And I say that they do not pass tranzit, because the main incentive for our country to be a very serious pass, is that package prices range in the countries of Northern Europe between EUR 5 and EUR 8. However, these, which are intended for the Greek market, because of the memorandumary policies which have increased the excise duty, have achieved the price of cigarettes today by 83%, on average, from excise duty, so that smokers are finally smoking - not smoked but taxed. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] This has the same effect as excise duty on heating oil, i.e. instead of an increase in public revenues, because it is a rule that products with a high tax burden are also more invasive in their movement, as smugglers have much more to gain. For example, to have a measure of how far they have to earn, I will tell you that the smuggling of a container - a container contains nine million six hundred thousand cigarettes - deprives the state of tax revenue of EUR 1.4 million. I also think that from a tariff point of view, it has also played a role in the pricing policy of previous governments towards cheap cigarettes, resulting in, while, first of all, the average difference in price of expensive - cheap cigarettes - legally understood - was EUR 1, today has been limited to 40 minutes. This means, in fact, that anyone who is able to give these 40 minutes above, goes to expensive and who is not able to do much, is smuggled, especially to the so-called 'llicit whites', which, as we know, is produced, in China, in the United Arab Emirates, Egypt, Malaysia, Ammogusta and elsewhere, of which the risk facing all smokers for cancer, for CSR and others is multiplied, as, as you already mentioned, in the smuggled products, the composition and chemicals used is completely uncontrolled. In other words, both in terms of health and economic terms, the problem of smuggling cigarettes has a decisive, dominant socio-taxation aspect, which is linked to the pricing policy of the Greek state and cannot be attributed or much more exclusively solved by improving prosecution. Appropriate pricing policies are also needed, and this will lead not to a reduction but to an increase in the State's income in terms of excise duty at such a difficult time. For the specific policy of more effective prosecution and the direction in which we are working today, I shall also refer to my second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Darkness, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u182	Minister, I agree that smuggling, like most illegal activities, cannot be accurately identified. There are, however, these studies. It is estimated that the Greek Government could save enough money. We are talking about 1 billion euros if it managed to eliminate this smuggling of tobacco. We believe that smuggling can be effectively combated, as long as there is political will, which I believe you have. We really need to make sure that these machinery, equipment and human resources are available, and not to be afraid of burdening or increasing the public sector, because it is a sensitive area or persecution, where, indeed, employees are needed to work consistently and honestly in this direction. It can therefore be combated directly and easily by following best practices in other countries and by implementing the World Health Organisation Protocol to Combat the Illicit Trade in Tobacco, which Greece has already signed. So we have to operate a system. There are many ways of doing this, such as electronic monitoring of all production lines in connection with the Ministry of Finance, so as to exclude undeclared production at least within the country. Another way is to label with encrypted code of all cigarette packs, regardless of whether they are intended for consumption inside or outside the country. It takes an easy and immediate way of recognising authenticity by all consumers, for all cigarettes produced inside or outside the country. An easy and reliable way of objective verification of authenticity is needed for the whole logistic chain as a retailer and a high-reliability method to verify the authenticity of the authorities, on the basis of a combination of information and physical data, in order to ensure that the law is directly enforced. Is this how the smuggling will be zeroed? Oh, no. But it will be reduced to the greatest extent, offering several million euros annually, at a time when we really need them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr. Darkness. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I have to say that I agree with the points you have made, but I only disagree that there is an easy way. You said it a couple of times. Unfortunately, none of these ways are easy. Some of the parameters we need to take into account are: firstly, the key in terms of the persecution of the smuggler is so-called 'tracking', that is, the ability to find at all times the history, use or locate a pack of cigarettes, through recorded identities. Although the term is new, such techniques have to be said to be used by other countries, even since the 1960s. At European level, the demonic distribution network makes it very difficult to trace cigarettes. That is why the Greek services consider it vital that an independent traceability system should be available, which will give each pack of cigarettes a unique code, stored in a government-controlled database. At European level, there is now a conflict between this position - which we and other Member States support - and the plans for the establishment of a traceability system developed by the four largest tobacco industries. These latter projects could be accepted if the companies had given full access to the source code of the software, the database data and the equipment concerned, instead of keeping control of them. Secondly, the cost of storage and, above all, the destruction of smuggled cigarettes is too high. The companies that undertake the disaster, charge 300-400 euros tone, as European standards of destruction require - and they do well! - methods which are particularly environmentally friendly. The destruction of cigarettes for a container only costs 4,000-5,000 euros, without taking into account the costs for people and the means of prosecuting them. However, as Greece is passing large quantities to the markets of other European countries, it also bears the cost of protecting the interests of the other Member States. That is why the European Union should be able to participate in the storage and destruction costs, since the majority of the smuggled cigarettes that are caught are considered to be destined for the countries of Western Europe and the prosecution services in Greece are, by their actions, a kind of stirring up for this passage, protecting both the health of customers and public revenues in these countries. A little bit, there's a direction in what we want to do. This must also be done in cooperation with more than one of the ministries. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Two legislative initiatives are currently under way. Recently, a special legislative committee was set up to prepare a draft law to combat the smuggling of tobacco products, involving the Ministry of Anti-Corruption, the Ministry of Finance and the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority. Secondly, there is an initiative by the Ministry of Health, the establishment of an Interministerial Committee involving the Ministry of Finance, to ratify what you mentioned, the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products, the Framework Convention for the World Health Organisation for Tobacco Control. The Committee's work is to study the protocol, examine its legal framework and settle the institutional and economic obligations arising from its implementation, to promote ratification by law in Parliament. It is the first Implementing Protocol and results from Article 15 of the Framework Convention, in terms of reducing all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. It was voted by the Contracting Parties in November 2012 in Seoul and recognised in this regard that illegal trade in tobacco products undermines the economies of the Member States - by creating large revenue losses, adversely affect their safety and health objectives, by imposing an additional slowdown on health systems and by adversely affecting - and this is very important - young people, the poorest among the sections of the population and the other vulnerable groups. I think that all of this means that, in addition to all aspects and economics of revenue and health parameters and needs to strengthen prosecution and similar prosecuting mechanisms, we must not miss this. In fact, effective intervention in this area is also a kind of real, substantial, social policy, protecting the most vulnerable sections of the population and before all young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mrs Valavani. The tenth under number 168/28-4-2015 topical question by MP II Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panayotarou to the Foreign and State Ministers, regarding the assignment of our name to the Skopje, is not discussed due to the Minister's obstruction. The eleventh Question No 320/8-6-2015 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Artemis Mathiopoulos to the Ministers for Home and Administrative Reconstruction and Health, on the problems posed by the release of illegal immigrants from detention centres, is not discussed. Also, the third question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panayotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the headlines of the Turkish newspaper "AYDINLIK" that "Turkey proceeded to a committee for the reclaiming sixteen Greek islands", is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment. We will now move on to the twelfth under number 316/8-6-2015, a topical question by the Achaias MP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure that are incompatible with human rights. Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u186	Madam President, because Mr Vorides referred to the gathering currently taking place outside Parliament from our compatriots who, like all the Greeks, want to remain in Europe, he probably did not have good information, saying that the MAT forces are there to retreat them. I would like to say here to my fellow Members and colleagues what I have been informed that incidents with a group of anti-unionists have been threatened. That's why the impressions aren't left. After all, we are delighted to see that there are no more than 20 a.m. He has been defeated by the channel of the Parliament, by this irresistible interest, that is, by the Greek citizens. You will allow me, directly to put the question to the Minister, too, to say that I was extremely pleased, because despite what critically is said about the distance that separates the government, as some people say, SYRIZA - Independent Greeks from reality, ultimately it turns out that the actions and legislative initiatives prove the opposite. Minister, I was one of those MPs who did not vote for the provision, which many people said was photographing the incarcerated Xero. But I come here today to express my satisfaction at the fact that I read in an Athenian newspaper in "AFRICA", that because of the provision that he criticised, a thousand hundred prisoners were released by the Act of Friday, 10% of the prisoners in all the penitentiaries in the country and certainly were those who had all the conditions of the law and yet they were not, as Mr Vorides and all the others said, disseminating to the Greek society lies. So today, Minister. I come for a very long time, along with a number of fellow citizens who are troubled but also with colleagues - to remind you - from SYRIZA, who believed that, in fact, the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure were essentially forbidden from bringing citizens to the administrative court. They had then protested with questions and parliamentary scrutiny, having raised the matter. So today I want directly to ask you whether you intend to do something about these provisions. It is not only the Christian Democrat Party that I am in charge of, but I have a number of bodies that have said that Article 22 of the Treaty. 3900/2010, violates human rights, citizens' rights of equality, and ultimately the administration of justice becomes the prerogative of the possessors and occupants and not the overwhelming majority of the poor and weak Greeks. You know very well what that provision says. In the case of tax and customs disputes in general, the member of staff must pay up to the date of the original court with a penalty of inadmissibility, Madam President, 50% of the sum due, in accordance with the original decision, in accordance with this article which I have mentioned. The amount payable shall be calculated by the competent tax authority or customs authority, which shall draw up, at the request of the defendant, a special note confirming its payment. In other words, it is understandable to everyone that the introduction of this provision was intended to help the State from the delay in the recovery of sums due as a result of appeals against the primary decisions and any other charges or charges charged, but hardly any appeal case is discussed or discussed in the preamble. As a result, the appeal almost in advance, Minister - you know it as a university student, and you understand it better than the speaker who is not a legal person - should be unacceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Nicolopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u188	I shall conclude, Madam President. I won't use my dentistry. The provision therefore takes over assumptions that have been made by 1 January 2011, i.e. it also has retroactive effect. So because the result is now clear, as we have said about the other provision, no one can see what has happened, a accumulation of excessive sums at the level of inaccurate final amounts, since this difference in debt is growing, under conditions of non-payment of justice. So you ask, Mr Minister: For the smooth resolution of tax disputes and the award of justice and for the avoidance of appeals as unacceptable, you have the political will to abolish this provision of Article 93(3) of the Code of Administrative Procedure, which was added to Article 22 of the Treaty. 3900/2010, with effect from 1 January 2011; If so, when do you intend to implement this legislative initiative? Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. My Minister for Justice and Compatriot, Mr. Paradise, will answer. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Papoutsis, for the question and for your praise for the n. 4322, who was, of course, a collective work. Moreover, the regulations which led to the dismissal of a significant number of detainees concerned many categories and not just those of the disabled. However, with regard to the question you have raised, I would say that the payment of such a significant percentage of the 50% in order to appeal does seem to be a measure which is disproportionate to the procedural step followed and which seems to have a characteristic obstacle to the possibility of bringing an end to the infringement, and indeed to a time of crisis. I must say, of course, that the problem does not seem to be institutional. It is social and real, that is, Article 22 of the Treaty. 3900/2010, which established the amount in question, employed the Council of State, which, by decision of its plenary in 2012, accepted - even in a pilot trial - that the regulation is not contrary to Articles 20(1) of the Constitution and Article 6(1) of the European Convention on Human Rights, because this regulation does not refer to cases for which a crisis has already been committed. In other words, these provisions give the citizen the guarantee that they can be mentioned, that they can be brought to justice and that already has been covered by the citizen by appealing first of all. It has also been stated as an argument against those who object to that provision, but in any case there is an obligation to pay the entire amount after the first court. However, he who will see his property being affected, because of his condemnation to the first degree, will also have difficulty in bringing this regulation to the second degree, in order to claim his right and secondaryly. In view of this, the will you ask of is there. We believe in the Justice Ministry that this arrangement should be reviewed. A Legislative Committee on Administrative Law, to which the amendment of this regulation has been tabled, is hereby set up in order to reduce the amount in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Nicolopoulos, do you want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u192	In time when do you define it, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u193	For September, October.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u194	That's a very positive development. Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Thank you, Mr President. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-22-S1-commons.u195	With the consent of the House at 21.36 p.m. the sitting is closed for Wednesday 24 June 2015 at 10.00 p.m. on the subject of this House's work, according to the agenda distributed.
