ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is opening. First of all, I apologise for the late start. There are some service and technical issues that had to be resolved. I'll come to them right after. I would, however, like, before entering the agenda to say, by interpreting the feelings of this House, that Parliament expresses its warmest condolences to the Bouba Dimitrokallis family, sister of Manolis Glezou, left-wing and resistance who left at the dawn at the age of eighty-one. Also, by interpreting the feelings of this House, the House expresses its grief and condolences to the family of the Vice-President of the Ice Arcas, the deceased Sotiris Baya, a democratic judiciary who, by the attitude of life, gave him a lesson of democracy and of commitment to the principles of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u2	Bayas wasn't SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u3	Mrs. Vuldesis, your comment was inappropriate. I ask for your consent to be deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u4	Madam President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u5	I ask for your consent to be deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u6	Bayas wasn't SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u7	No, Mrs. Vulge. Respect a man's memory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u8	He was my personal friend, and you won't use him. There are no shoulder judges. All the judges are democratic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u9	The President of Parliament interprets the feelings of the House and of the entire House. Sit down, Mrs. Vulge.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u10	You've found now to break up with people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION OF BULLETIN Discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, on the proposal submitted by the Prime Minister and President of the Radical Left coalition, Mr Alexis Tsipras and a hundred and forty-eight Members of his party and the President of the Parliamentary Group of Independent Greeks Mr Panagiotis Kammenos and twelve Members of his party, setting up a Committee of Inquiry, "to place Greece on the status of monuments and surveillance and any other issue relating to the implementation and implementation of the memorandums". I would like to say first of all that the start of our work has been delayed for two objective, technical and service reasons. The first was that, up to 15 years ago, the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs was transmitted from the Parliamentary channel and I did not want it to be adjourned to proceed with the transmission of Parliament's work. The second is that this - and I would ask colleagues who do not belong to that parliamentary group who tabled the proposal to listen to it and to be informed why it is important and will work - was tabled at 16.00 this afternoon under Protocol No 1475/6-4-2015 on an application dated 3 April 2015 to the President of Parliament, Zoi Konstantopoulou, on the subject of a proposal for a Committee of Inquiry to investigate the course of the economy, the country's recourse to the support mechanism, the need to sign credit contracts and the update of these linked memorandums. This is a proposal signed by the Chief of Officerial Representation, Mr Antonis Samaras, and seventy-five Members of his party. Because of the date of April 3, 2015, and because it was tabled two hours before the opening of the meeting on the proposal, tabled by the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Alexis Tsipras and the hundreds of eight Members of his party and the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group Mr Panos Kammenos and the twelve Members of his Party, for the setting up of a committee of inquiry to subject Greece to the Memorandum and the surveillance regime and for any other matter relating to the implementation and implementation of the memorandums, in accordance with Articles 68(2) of the Constitution and 144 of the Rules of Procedure, and to order all possibilities to the House, despite the minimum time available, and have already been distributed to all Members and posted to the Parliament's website this proposal by the Group of the Anti-Population Parliament. There is a relevance of objects. There is a difference in procedure, in the sense that the Committee of Inquiry called for by the Qualificational Opposition calls for its work to be started after the end of the four-month extension of the memorandum - this is the wording that the current government has requested and received as late June, and it concludes with the observation that 'other than any such debate, such as the Committee of Inquiry proposed by the Government only works unorthodoxly while the country is facing dramatic problems'. That is the word "speaking". As President of Parliament, I did not want to prejudge anything. I do not know what the intentions of the Officerate are, i.e. whether she wants or does not want to discuss her proposal today. I understood that it was tabled two hours before today's debate that it might wish to discuss its proposal today. The final paragraph, on the other hand, puts the matter and the setting-up of a committee of inquiry at a later stage, in which case I would also like to give CSR the opportunity to address this House and to explain exactly what it proposes on a point of order but also to the Members of Parliament, and at least to make sure that this proposal has been distributed to everyone. I would like to inform you that it is a prerequisite for the discussion of a proposal for a committee of inquiry to be distributed to Members. It is also on the agenda. The items referred to in the Rules of Procedure shall be included on the special agenda two days ago. That is the time limit set by the Rules of Procedure. I pointed this out when there were some protests on the agenda for the election of the President of the Republic, in which some parliamentary groups argued there should be a longer time. It's two days in space, it's not two hours. However, if there is unanimity - I would say - a decision by this House to discuss this proposal today too, I think that this possibility should be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u12	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u13	The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u14	Madam President, before I go into the question of the proposal put forward by the New Democracy, I would like you to allow me, and I believe all my colleagues feel, to ask that the meetings begin on time. From that point on, I cannot accept as an alibi for a late plenary sitting that the channel of Parliament is relaying a debate on a committee. It is clear that the timetable for plenary cannot be in line with the timetable for committees. One more thing since you referred to the channel of Parliament: you have agreed and discussed in the Conference of Presidents that the meetings of the committees must be relayed from the channel of Parliament. I think we have all agreed on this, but this morning there was something extremely interesting: that while he was meeting a Permanent Permanent Committee of the House discussing a very important issue, a bill of Parliament, a legislative work, Parliament's channel chose to relay the debate on the 'Committee' because I still cannot find out on the basis of which the Commission was set up for the audit of the debt. I would therefore ask that the procedure, which you yourself have set itself, be respected. The channel of Parliament to relay the legislative work, and obviously under no circumstances when there is an overlap between a committee and a plenary sitting, because the committee has not completed its work. In no way can this House function like this. That never happened in the past. Now on the issue you have raised. The New Democracy does not agree, Madam President, that the two proposals should be discussed today. You have also laid down the conditions for discussing a proposal, such as the one tabled by the New Democracy. It must first be on the agenda. As far as the title is concerned, the proposals may seem to have the same subject, but as they will be shown in the debate they have a completely different philosophy. Consequently, to the extent that there is no agreement of plenary today, only the proposal of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks will be discussed. The proposal of the New Democracy will be signed and discussed at a separate meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u15	With regard to the transmission of committee meetings, I would simply like to inform the House that this is the first period during which the work of all the committees is being relayed. Today, for the first time, there was a overlap of three committees of the work of the Committee on Truth, Public Debt, the Committee on Public Order, Public Administration and Justice on the bill of the Ministry of Justice on the penitentiary system and the Article 49A Committee on the appointment of the PPC administration. The channel of Parliament has done everything and relayed the two of the three committees and the Committee of the Regions will be relayed tomorrow. I think a little better and a little more pleased we should be in relation to the previous period during which, say, meetings were relayed from 22 of the month to 29 of the month or from 23 of the month to 30 of the month or from 29 of the month to 4 of the following month, etc. However, I have explained to you that there was also the technical issue, and I had to do what the Group of the European People's Party had to say in order not to pre-empt things in order to enable you to ask for the joint debate, to do what I had to do so that there would be a choice. Since the New Democracy Parliamentary Group does not ask for that, I think we should just put it in plenary. But you realise that the opposite, that is to say, that I have not taken care of the distribution made by the services in time dt, at zero times and, in fact, to prejudge that there could be no discussion, could give scope to a reverse criticism. If there is no other intervention on this matter, the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr. Friend, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u16	Public opinion is interested in investigating the big issue of the country's subjection to the memorandum and the conditions that we have reached there, and then from there to here. Public opinion does not understand a procedural type of terrestrial. He would expect all parties to agree by means of a procedure today to set up a committee of inquiry in each of their minds, and we would have the committee all year round to look for truths that each side could bring forward during the investigation procedure. It is regrettable that the New Democracy is choosing a process of such a kind that actually avoids the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u17	We'll have two conversations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u18	The argument that we are going to have two debates which Mr Mitsotakis has rightly put forward is an argument that does not make the debate complete. We would therefore ask that the procedural issues which, as is of course right - the New Democracy, and to hold a joint debate on the proposals for a committee of inquiry should be removed, when, even with so many years' delay and after SYRIZA submitted the proposal, the New Democracy also woke up to bring its proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr. Friend. Therefore, Mr Philly, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group is proposing to discuss all the proposals - both proposals together. It is a proposal which contributes to the economy of the parliamentary process and would in fact help to ensure a comprehensive view of the matter. I will give all the parliamentary representatives the opportunity to speak. Parliamentary spokesman for the Independent Greeks, Mr Nikolaopoulos, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u20	Madam President, Mr Koutsoukos has been asking for the floor for an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u21	I didn't see Mr. Koutsuko. I'll give him the floor right after. After all, it comes in the order of the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u22	If he wants to lead, there's no problem, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u23	To precede. Mr. Nicolopoulos gives you his turn. Come on, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u24	I do not want to violate the parliamentary order, but, Madam President, I had asked you in the previous debate, when the government's draft law entitled 'To relaunch the economy' came under urgent procedure. I would remind you, on account of your excuses. First of all, apology is acceptable. We are people, we are making mistakes, but we do not want excuses, which have no reasonable basis, since the programming of the Parliament's channel is under your supervision. Therefore, as you have been doing so far, you should have taken care to ensure that there is no other fact, and much more so, for which we have not just expressed our reservations, for a committee which is your personal creation and which is not based on any Rule of the Rules of Procedure of this House. My second point is about substance. We do not have the opportunity to table a proposal, as we would like to see a committee of inquiry, because as our chairman, Mr Venizelos, has said, the committee of inquiry is welcome. However, as the rapporteur, Mr Loverdos, will analyse you, we believe that this particular proposal submitted by the SYRIZA and ANEL parliamentary groups is a proposal that contains political and communication purposes, as it sets out the starting point of the committee of inquiry not since the debts and deficits began to appear, but from a specific political period, and much more so that it wants to close the committee at the time of the government's withdrawal, without taking into account what is to be done at the end of June, when the government is required to sign the third memorandum. We will therefore put to the debate what is oral - since we do not have the opportunity to table a proposal for a committee of inquiry - Mr Loverdes will develop and we will, of course, accept the extension of the debate, since the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group accepts it and the Bureau, with the request that you accept the proposals that we will be tabling to you. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u25	Mr Koutsouko, firstly because the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy also mentioned it, you also mentioned it in the Minutes and I announce to the House the decision of the President of Parliament of the Greek Parliament to set up a special committee of the Parliament of Greece to investigate the truth about the creation and growth of the public debt, the debt audit and the promotion of the international cooperation of Parliament with the European Parliament, the parliaments of other countries and international organisations in debt matters, for the purpose of raising awareness and activating society, the international community and the international public opinion, called the 'Government Committee'. The composition of the committee is laid down in Rules 49, 162(4) and 5 and 162 A of the Rules of Procedure, as well as in Rules 98 and 164 F of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, as applicable, so you can be informed. It has, of course, been posted to the 'Parliamentary Transparency' from the day before yesterday and there has also been a protest by your party, which claims that this open procedure has not been specifically called for.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u26	Now, with regard to the proposals, I note - because I have asked and would like to inform the House - that proposals have been made in the past with regard to related matters. There was a proposal on 22 February 2010, which was tabled under the title: ‘Proposal for a committee of inquiry to investigate the matter of the amended financial data’ and signed by PASOK MPs, who were a government party. As these services have informed me, the proposal tabled by you, by your parliamentary group, which was then the government's parliamentary group, has not been discussed. There is a similar proposal from 26 February 2010, that is, four days later, on the subject: "Proposal for a committee of inquiry to investigate the course of the budget figures and the quality of the financial data", which was tabled by the then, as now, Chief of Officerial Response Mr Samaras and Members of his party. And this proposal, as the services tell me, has not been discussed. There is the proposal that was tabled on 5 September 2012 by the Chief of Staff at the time and current Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and Members of the Group of the European People's Party, which was debated - I remind you - at the end of November 2012 and rejected by the majority of the then parliament. Today we are in April 2015, without this investigation being done, which might have been useful in the meantime. Your argument and the New Democracy Parliamentary Group have been recorded, that I should not yet - if I understand correctly - start this process. You say that this must still wait, that time is not right. I now give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Nikos Nikolaopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u27	Madam President, proposals have indeed been tabled in the past. The difference, however, today is that there will not be another proposal tabled for it to be tabled, but this proposal may rather be justified, on the basis of the statement that it will be voted on. So, finally, what the Greeks and Greeks expected from Mr Samaras, who was his main pre-election commitment, is that one of the many committees of inquiry, is now coming with the vote of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks. What a tragic irony! Indeed, the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry into the conditions under which a mere debt crisis was converted into a borrowing crisis was a desire - and it is still - for the entire Greek people, because it wants the Greek people to know how the International Monetary Fund came. Has Mr. Romeliotis come in his book, the Minister for Finance of PASOK, who accompanied Mr. Varoufakis yesterday? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Is that how it happened? Is that why the International Monetary Fund came? Has the publications of Lebanon's publishing house come in many issues? Is it true all those dreadful documentaries that have been published? So while there was Mr Samaras' central election commitment, today we see that there is still the loan, the vernets for those who made them co-pilots, who said that with them he will never go because he is not PASOK and how they will sit in the special court. And today he comes to give them another chance, because that is why the proposal is being tabled today by Mr Samaras. For a few days now, PASOK colleagues have remembered their achievements in 1981. But then you were kids!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u28	Madam President, mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u29	It's not a point of order. Let Mr. Nicholas tell us later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u30	There's a limit. That's not possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u31	When you did all those events here, it wasn't like it was today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u32	Madam President, I am very sorry. What are these things? Then he'll say the same thing again?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u33	Madam President, every time this House meets, these protests are heard by the people who have made one with the system. It's obvious. But now to old rebels? What did they say they wanted? They told us that they want - he says - to start with the country's beginning to be charged. So Mr Samaras said: 'Very well, come from 1981'. Indeed, that is the issue at issue in the present case? Madam President, the Independent Greeks today will have the opportunity through this debate to demonstrate all these cheap political games, but above all to serve the Greek people's request at last to shed plenty of light, to find out how and why we have arrived here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u34	Madam President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u35	Thank you Mr Nicholas, Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks. Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u36	Madam President, didn't you see me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u37	Mrs. Libertyraki, you're right. But, you see, Mr. Pallis protested harder.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u38	This is not how we agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u39	I really didn't see you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u40	Mrs. Liberaki, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Pafilis is giving you his turn. After all, you are advanceing in parliamentary order. Please, Mrs. Libertyraki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much. I don't want to abuse time. I do not understand the idea of making a lot of statements, since the debate is going to take place. I'll just say three things. As far as start-up time is concerned, it is a matter of credibility. I think it's obvious. I don't have to say anything. As far as the Committee on Truth is concerned, I must say that I am certainly not a parliament, but in Potami we did not realize that a committee was set up in which Members, men and women were invited to participate. If we had understood this, we might have had the opportunity to advise on some people who would be useful to call to show the radiation of the country, rather than marginalise them. For the New Democracy proposal, I do not understand Mr Philly's proposal to be discussed today if the New Democracy itself does not want it. In any case, I think there is an innovation here, to vote for a parliamentary committee on the future. I think it's a definite process. We on the river don't understand it. Nor has it been debated, nor has it been debated, to discuss something that has not yet been done. I would therefore suggest that we enter the debate as quickly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u43	Mrs Lymmerakis, the explanations given by the Bureau: Firstly, the recommendation of the Committee on the Truth of Public Debt has been publicly announced at a press conference on 17 March. The dates of this inaugural procedure were then announced, which has not been closed. Therefore, it is welcome that your proposal to make proposals. On Friday there was a press release, which was also notified to everyone - I say it for the purpose of restoring some publications - that all members of the Bureau of Parliament were invited to this inaugural procedure. Some Vice Presidents like Mr. Mitropoulos, such as the IV Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Kaklamanis, presented some secretaries of the House, such as Mr. Yannis Kefaliannis of New Democracy. The Vice President of Parliament, Mr Lykoudi, from Potami, was notified and invited. So I do not understand what was not understood. In any case, there is nothing to do because, as I have said, the process of setting up is open and welcome to anyone who wants to contribute. I am pleased that this means that you are finally revising the abstention approaches. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Thanasis Pafilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u44	Madam President, I would like - firstly - to agree that we shall either take the floor as Parliamentary Representatives in the order we ask for, or in the order of order in the House. I'm saying that so we know. Two...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Paphie, in theory it's in the order you ask him. However, when you ask him at the same time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u46	Good. Just so we know how we're gonna behave. That doesn't matter. Secondly, I would like to make a comment on the previous speaker. I'm not saying a name so it doesn't raise a personal issue. So I should also like to take you out now a ten-minute speech on capitalism, capitalist development, the crisis, which is the genuine crisis of capitalism and of this development path, to talk about a quarter, instead of being in the procedural process. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I won't do that because Marx did this a long time ago. I say this in response to some who served this policy and from the first line, even today, are portraying the innocent pigeons. We say that, firstly, for the Commission set up for the debt we do not agree politically. We are firmly opposed and even denounce it because it actually goes to legitimize the Greek people's conscience that there is a good and bad debt. For us there is no good and bad debt. It's not the world's fault, it's not the people's fault for the debt. It is the fault of what I will say in my speech and what Nikos Karathanasopoulos will say. As far as the proposals are concerned, the debate is unnecessary. Since the New Democracy does not agree, so there is no consensus, so why should we be eating so much time? We wouldn't mind either of us together, nor of us apart. After all, there is a general philosophy and a political concept that we will develop. As for the IMF, for which some ask, there is before the crisis and is present at all the meetings of the European Union, for which the rest of you are pilgrimizing. Now, the fact that he has come to Greece and other countries is another issue that we will discuss.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. Let me tell you that the Committee on Truth, however, is looking for the truth and not to legitimise a supposedly good debt.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u48	The road to hell is stranded with the best intentions!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u49	Let us move on to the process. Is there a parliamentary representative who would like the floor? Nobody. I think that, given that the New Democracy - which has tabled the proposal - does not agree to discuss it, given my own suggestion that it should be unanimous - although I truly find it difficult to understand the procedure - and despite the fact that there is a majority, we cannot impose on those who have tabled the proposal to be discussed in this procedure. The JRC and the Potami expressed express objections. It was recorded that the Group of the European People's Party, too...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u50	Madam President, we have not objected. If New Democracy doesn't want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u51	It is clear that the Group of the European People's Party does not want to present it. The proposal of both the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and the Greek Parliamentary Group for an overall debate was recorded. It will therefore be very briefly identified, within the deadlines laid down in the Rules of Procedure, and the debate will also be held on this separate proposal from the New Democracy. We are, in essence, entering the debate and decision-making in accordance with Rule 144 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, on the proposal put forward by the Prime Minister and President of the Group of the Radical Left coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras and a hundred and forty-eight Members of his party and the President of the Parliamentary Group of Independent Greeks Mr Panagiotis Kammenos and twelve Members of his party, for a committee of inquiry, "for Greece to be subject to the memorandum and surveillance regime and any other issue relating to the implementation and implementation of the Memorandums". I read Rule 144 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which stipulates that the plenary may be committees of inquiry from its members to examine specific issues of public interest. The proposal for a committee of inquiry must be signed by 1/5 of the total number of Members - sixty Members, here we have a hundred and sixty-two Members, and this condition is fulfilled - and it must specify the reasons for its recommendation, as well as the specific issue on which it is to be dealt with. After it has been presented, the proposal shall be communicated to Parliament, printed, distributed to the Members and placed on the agenda for a parliamentary inspection meeting. That is what we have done. Monday is a day of parliamentary scrutiny, the whole procedure has been done, the proposal has been distributed and it has been placed on the agenda. The debate on the proposal shall begin on the basis of one of the Members appointed in analogous manner to apply Rule 91(5) and shall take place in accordance with the provisions on a generalized question and shall be terminated at a meeting. The decision of the Plenary Assembly to set up the Committee of Inquiry referred to in Article 68(2)(a) of the Constitution shall be taken by an absolute majority of the Members present, which may not be less than 2/5 of the total number of Members. It cannot, in other words, be less than a hundred twenty Members. The decision of the Plenary Assembly, on the basis of Article 68(2)(b) of the Constitution, to set up a committee of inquiry on matters relating to foreign policy and national defence, shall be taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members. The decision of the House must set the number of members of the committee and set the time limit for the submission of the findings. This time limit may, in exceptional cases, be extended by special decisions of the House. The setting-up and operation of the committees of inquiry shall be governed by the corresponding provisions governing the setting-up and operation of standing committees if they are not amended by further Articles. The debate on the proposal, in accordance with the relevant debate held at the Conference of Presidents, will be conducted in accordance with Rule 137(2) of the Rules of Procedure, namely the procedure for discussing a general question. I propose, in accordance with the relevant decision taken at the Conference of Presidents, that the debate begin with a first-round of seven speakers, namely one of each parliamentary group. Each speaker from this first cycle will be given the floor for ten minutes, without the right to secondary education. That is the point of order. Any other Member who wishes to speak, in addition to the speakers who have been given a list by the parties, will be registered with the electronic system by the end of the speech by the second speaker. The parties may provide a list of speakers who, under Rule 65(5) of the Rules of Procedure, will precede those registered with the electronic system. As far as I can see, there are groups that have given priority, but there are groups that have not given them. I therefore ask the Members of this Parliament to join the electronic system as well. After registration, a single list of speakers will be drawn up in the proportion of the party's parliamentary power represented, as has been done in similar cases. The speakers on the single list have the floor for seven minutes under the Rules of Procedure. I propose that, depending on the time that has been consumed, we look at a small cut if necessary. The speaking time of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups is the one provided for in Rule 97(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure. To be specific, for the Prime Minister, as for the Chief of Staff, time is twenty minutes, while for the remaining parliamentary groups the time is fifteen minutes. In all cases, this will be tolerable, but I would ask the Presidents of Parliament to show the necessary self-restriction. Parliamentary representatives are entitled to speak three times, and in particular 12 minutes of the time in their prototypes, six in tertiary and three in tertiary, unless they receive the floor after the Chief of their parliamentary group, so they have half the speaking time. The Ministers are entitled to speak eighteen minutes, the Deputy Ministers fourteen and the Undersecretaries nine. I would ask the ministers, however, to restrict themselves to speaking more. After the conclusion of the debate and approximately 01.00 p.m. as I calculate on the basis of the list, a roll-call vote will be held on the proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, do you agree with this procedure, do you approve of it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u52	As far as I can see, this House agrees unanimously. I therefore have the honour to announce to you the first seven speakers the parties have indicated. From SYRIZA, Mr. Alexis Metropoulou, from New Democracy Mr. Christos Stagios, from Golden Dawn Mr. Artemis Matthiopoulos, from Potami Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, from the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Karathanasopoulos, from the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos and from PASOK Mr. Andreas Loverdes. Until the Vice-President of Parliament comes down and Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, for the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas, for the Potamis Antigone Lyberakis, for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Pafilis, for the Independent Greeks Mr Nikos Nikolaopoulos and for the PASOK Mr Ioannis Kotsoukos, for the Communist Party of Greece. Mr Alexis Metropoulou has the floor as a priority for the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u53	Ladies and gentlemen, in the simple and essential text of the proposal by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Groups and ANLL for setting up a committee of inquiry on the two memorandums, the issues under investigation are clearly identified, but the recognition of the absolute freedom, discussion and research that must have to be completed in full so that all of us can have a full share of our debt to the Greek people, which calls for full answers and responsibilities for everything that has happened during the Memorandum. The conditions under which the Memorandums are placed, but above all the content, the essence of its policies, the institutional and ideological in the end of this anti-social super-constitution, must be explored with the help of the competent Greek and foreign think tanks and think tanks, so that our view is multifaceted, synthetic and complete, which will help us, when we enter a greedy port, to make a cool, national, accounting and programming reflection. The historian of the future must give credit for objectivity and national self-awareness to the high political and social importance of the Greek Parliament. And it may be a course for the upcoming generations to know what to choose and what to avoid. After all, ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, the Greek issue revealed the constant and unsolved stability of the new European structure of the past twenty-five years, on the other hand it gave us the measure of the realization or denial of the Greek people's hopes when it believed and joined this course of European unification. The first conclusion that each one - regardless of political and ideological position - must draw from it is that the European Union's overall economic and social policy, particularly after Maastricht and the Stability Pact, does not obey the principles of dialecticality and during the period of the radical classical economic crisis, much more so that the euro as a single currency does not function as a national currency of the individual States and the ECB, any other thing can be considered as a central bank of each Member State. The rules governing the functioning of the so-called monetary union and the lymphatic and occasional fiscal policy do not work in favour of the development interests and prospects of each country, nor do they respect their specific features and, above all, their comparative advantages. These rules created and strengthened a financial order, led to a primary economic institution the credit income of banking and social institutions, created a suffocating environment for public development initiatives and transnational cooperation, although they did not explicitly and ultimately dictate them, they introduced the doctrine of endless and impeccable competition between national economies. Thus, the path of lasting divergence has replaced the declared convergence policy and nothing seems to prevent this process of continuous diversification of economic and social sizes from periphery to region. At the same time, by promoting agreements on the further liberalisation of world trade in goods, services, capital and labour force, there has been a gradual but rapid destruction of indigenous production methods, since the new rules have given priority to the introduction of similar products in relation to those produced in the countries of the South, which has absorbed local economies from their comparative advantages in the primary and secondary sectors. In the middle of the last decade, we have also become spectators of the great geostrategic project of extending the EU's main influence on the countries of formerly existing socialism, which he has massively introduced with various preliminary, precarious and unsustainable gifts either directly in the euro area or in the European Union. This gave its new speed to the policies of divergence, since the looted over the last few decades from the nomadic countries of socialism was sure that by no miracle of history they could follow a path of convergence towards economic, social and institutional sizes of the countries of the central core of the European Union. In this European environment, our country is experiencing the asymmetric shock that institutional and conscious ignorance of the hardness of the neoliberal economic rules of the European Union has caused. Many political movements and parties in Greece once again reiterate European orientation, but do not analyse the nature of the rules that constantly remove the possibilities of national self-government. All of this, because the idealistic view of things is misleading and often creates painful fantasies. While if the Greek political and economic minds and the elite of this country were able to distinguish between the shocking changes in the production base of the European Union and the neoliberal redeployment of the factors of production, it would also have a different position for the Stability Pact and for the Treaty of Lisbon and for the new stricter budgetary rules which effectively prohibit public and private investments from lending or budgetary money. Ladies and gentlemen, the internal association of forces has never been able to understand the nature of this asymmetric shock and with any re-orders made in the political structure. It was imposed as a method of governance by the triarchy of creditors with the super-constitution of the memorandum, that is to say, that in all cases of style to Parliament and the government, which is never found in associations of states of equal value, it is assumed that participation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Memorandum as an integrated system of eugenic fiscal policy for the exemplary peoples of the South and as a supreme plan to grab their wealth is: Firstly, from an ideological point of view, the most complete and systematic programme of governance of aggressive and anti-social financialised neoliberalism. Secondly, from a democratic point of view, it is a means of terminating our society's dominant choices. It removes the possibility of internal processing and free debate of laws and measures adopted by the domestic political class. Thirdly, from a national viewpoint, it is a mechanism for granting a large part of our national sovereignty and transferring Greece to the region of Europe where the so-called European acquis no longer applies. Fourthly, from an economic point of view, this embodies the entire contractual arsenal of colonialism in the era of modernity, modernised with the new pursuits of stock capital and containing all forms of wealth accumulation in the capitalist system. Fifthly, from institutional European vision, the memorandum is the first fully organised effort of the sovereign European economic elites to use the temporary borrowing crisis of certain southern countries and, above all, of our country to turn it into a permanent debt crisis. Through the neoliberal solution they seek to change European integration in their own interests. Sixthly, from a social point of view, it fragments the social fabric, pre-selects small and medium-sized enterprises and employees, makes unemployment a structural phenomenon and drives our qualified young people out of the country, in other words destroys its greatest comparative advantage. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the memorandum despairs, fragments and disintegrates the state entity, turns it into the category of failed states. States - although they cannot respond to the fundamental needs of the Greek social area, communities from the Greek Democratic Republic, scattered island complexes, problematic mountainous areas. Ladies and gentlemen, the first key issue of the investigation to be carried out is the truth or not of the data used, the role of ELSTAT, any falsification of statistical sizes or the overthrowing of others, the degree of availability of markets during the pre-memorandum period. [[Mr I Vice-President of Parliament is ringing at this point at the end of the speech bell]] I would like two minutes, Madam President. Secondly and most importantly, credit agreements, concession clauses for national sovereignty and resignation from the rules of national constitutional and international humanitarian law are the jurisdiction of the courts to resolve credit disputes, the applicable law and all the anti-development, anti-social and material measures which have led to the loss of 25 units of GDP, unemployment of at least one and a half million Greeks, the pillaging of the funds' reserves, the collapse of the labour insurance system and their subsequent benefits and, of course, the long-term alteration of the timeless intangible and material wealth of the country and of comparative advantages. Thirdly, the scope of research using international and other experts should be the way in which European institutions operate, the violation of European treaties, and in particular the European Social Charter, the IMF's official invitation and collecting, and in general the decisions that have violated or deviated from the European state of affairs. Fourth and last fields of investigation of the Committee of Inquiry should be the study of the attitude of scientific institutions and institutes and of the dominant media, of the legalisation of their memorandum and of the imposition on the people of necessity, of the one-way, dedevelopment, austerity and colonisation of our historic country in exchange for their favourable lending. In particular, the policy of special state bodies and individuals, auditing mechanisms and credit institutions that have exercised a tax and credit suffocation policy should be investigated, with many of our fellow citizens leading to universal insolvency, professional or business collapse, even suicide or death. The evidence we have already collected is not just political, but also criminal. Ladies and gentlemen, we must never forget that the memorials are assimilated, the obvious evidence that our country's ruling urban order has never had, nor has it ever hoped to have a medium-term national reconstruction and development plan. It looked at European heterogeneity in order to occasionally exploit monetary liquidity and sector-specific subsidies and programmes. In Greece, no dominant political formation has ever been formulated in a viable productive reconstruction plan. Some hopeful PASOK election plans drowned in his subjective weaknesses and prohibitions of the international environment. Systematic and financially integrated mentality and science has never fought to propose a development plan for social reconstruction. The essential state-of-the-art and European economic theory has flooded universities with a lot of neoliberal irrationalism, but it has never promoted the historical and peculiarity of the country. So, after the end of political paternalism, Greek civil servants were unable to develop a primary thinking and take the right development initiatives. [[Mr I Vice-President of Parliament is ringing at this point at the end of the speech bell]] I shall conclude, Madam President. It was consumed in public relations and occasional utility movements, ensuring its reproduction, destroying any hopeful islands of the state figure and, ultimately, creating the fragmented private state, which is not the dominant creation of the political function and democratically active people, but the spoil in economic patras. The maintenance of the party and client bases has secondly supplemented its dominant nature. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is not far from the reality that the Greek system has seen the European Union not as a mechanism for the reconstruction of the economy and society, but as a pirate, predator, short-term reproduction operation of the model already bankrupt. Instead of seeking the realisation of the vision of democratic Europe, he joined the triumph of the conservative counter-revolution of the markets that bankrupt the country and defeated democracy. In this respect, the current situation is a quasi-normal development, since the country was left by the steering elite - economic and political - on the automatic pilot of European competition. He was handed over to the lenders by the country's dominant political and economic forces with a colonial clause that is difficult today to overturn. That is why research, as was identified by Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and the Social Rescue Government of the Left, must be profound, that is to say it has a great deal of time and proper scientific help and must be done without impression, populism, reunification, miserable controversy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a unique opportunity for us all to seek the real truth together, obeying our ancestors' redundancies. After all, all the political areas - and the New Democracy - had promised this investigation. This will give our country a new prestige and a sense of weakness. It will give us courage to relaunch the economy and upgrade the country to the European and international division of labour. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, with the government of salvation of the dialectic Left and the dynamics and determination of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, must go ahead with pride, dignity and courage, much more so that all the European peoples have turned their eyes on us and are waiting through this process of national self-consciousness to give us, once again, the signal of the new European path. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is essential that you all vote in favour of our proposal as a practical proof of the need, as ever, for national consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Metropoulou. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the participants in the inaugural process of setting up the Committee on the Truth of Public Debt. The House welcomes you. [[Applause]] Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, the principal speaker of the Independent Greeks, is entitled, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents, to propose, because he represents one of the two groups which sign the proposal. Mr. Cammene, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Committee on Truth, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we welcome you once again from the large Chamber of Parliament and thank you very much for your presence. I will start very soon, because in ten minutes the history of the memorandum is impossible to describe, how much more it is to codify and pass the messages on to all sides, why we all have to agree and vote on the establishment of this committee. I am going to make a quick reading - for the Minutes and for all - of the facts about how we entered the Memorandum. In particular: On 23 December 2009, the 2010 budget set as a general target the public deficit to become 9.1% of GDP. On January 15, 2010, the government submits an updated stability programme, bringing forward a 4-point reduction in the budget deficit to 8.7% of GDP and correcting the excessive deficit by 2012. The debt ratio was projected to peak 121% of GDP in 2011. On February 1, 2010 spreads, that is, the loan difference between Greek bonds and German, reach 347 basis points, i.e. 3.4% - we divide by 100 hundreds - of the ten-year bonds at 270 basis points, that is to say they increased by 2.7%. On 2 February 2010 Greece announced a new set of measures, in addition to those announced, such as a wage freeze, to increase excise duties, with a view to reducing the deficit. On 25 March 2010, the Heads of State and Government of the euro area countries reaffirm that they fully support the efforts of the Greek Government to welcome the additional measures announced on 3 March. On April 8, the two-year bond spreads almost doubled at 6,5 points and 4.3 points respectively, respectively. On 23 April 2010 Greece requested financial assistance from the euro area Member States and the IMF. I will end here, because we must remember that Mr Papandreou, on the basis of the statements made by the then President and CEO of the International Monetary Fund Mr Stros-Kan, had consultations, at least six months ago, on Greece's entry into the IMF. The debate has started since August, since summer. Inside the committee there will also come sworn statements of people who, on their own side, have seen IMF - acquaintance executives colluding and joining with very high - ranked PASOK executives at that time, which were then ministred for more than three times. I would also ask the Committee on Budgetary Control to pay its attention. It will have to be clear from the outset and everyone will have to read out, as we have done, the loan contracts and all these amendments, from the first to the last. Once again, let us say that the loan contract and the Memorandum. When the memorials and conventions came, there were great irregularities, I would say illegality, which we pointed out, then I as an active citizen and many others too. I also see Mr Staikora, who had pointed out at the time - quite rightly so, like many of us - too many irregularities. I'll read some of these: On 6 May 2010 in FEK 65 in the first Article, paragraph 4, it states: ‘It is authorised to represent the Greek State and to sign any Memorandum of Cooperation, Agreement or Loan Contract, bilateral or multilateral, with the European Commission, the Member States of the zone, the International Monetary Fund, the ECB, in order to implement the programme of the previous paragraph’, which was the Convergence Programme. ‘The memorandums, agreements and conventions referred to in the preceding subparagraph shall be entered in the House for ratification’, we underline. This was on May 6, 2010. One day later, on 7 May 2010, the Minister of Finance, Mr. Papakonstantinou, pledged: "These conventions will then come to the Greek Parliament for discussion and ratification, but in order for them to be disbursed on time, we will clarify this, with some legislative changes made to the text." So, five days later it amends the previous regulation and instead of ratification in Parliament, the conventions come for discussion and information. Contracts have never been ratified by the Greek Parliament. Shortly thereafter, on 3 June 2010, the Minister of Finance tables a draft law entitled ‘Definition of the Loan Facility between the Hellenic Republic as a borrower and the Member States of the Eurozone and KfW as lenders and the International Monetary Fund’. All of this shows that we have entered the memorandum at a speed which is too high and with a predetermined crime. And crime seems from the result. Because at that time a few of us knew - because we knew the situation and the history of the IMF - why it came to pooren a country, which had no problem after 2008 with the crack of 'LEHMAN BROTHERS' and the global financial problem, because the Greek banks had not been exposed to these bonds. So this crime has been done in order to undermine the people and the country and to preserve the values. And that is something that we are seeing with the following actions that we all live as a result of the memoranda. By entering the memorandum, we must say that three months before the debate with the new PASOK government began - which left the House, because it does not want to hear that it was the party responsible for introducing Greece into the memoranda - it started buying and holding the risk premiums on the Greek debt. It is a case that had also taken the path of justice, but practically and economically we should all know that when one holds a country's default risk hedge contracts, it means that he expects to go bankrupt to get paid. At the same time, however, many of them were "naked", i.e. they did not have a certain value, a bond, or bet on the air. All this was sold in December 2010 by the Post Bank. This is a scandal to be investigated by this committee, which has a great responsibility to carry specialists, beyond us, to investigate this whole process. The memorials in Greece brought new definitions. So I will start from a tragic definition, such as that of the depositor - and I say all this, because from the result we all have to understand why this committee should be set up - it is an investor. The previous governments have passed it in Europe, they have brought us to the House, and at the moment each depositor is directly at risk, on the basis of an ECOFIN decision of summer 2013, to hairen his statements, because he is considered co-responsible for failing to meet the objectives of a bank, along with the bondholders and bank shareholders. A second condition entered by the memorandums was the GOI, a whole procedure, an agency that concerned the exploitation of public property. But no use has ever been made. On the other hand, the sale of the assets of the Greek economy, which in breach of many regulations and by the invoicing of the emergency, took place in the hands of foreign and national. I asked Mr Marda, with whom we are waiting to see with full analysis where the revenues of the TIAD went. Did they go to close the nominal debt by 3 billion that we sold? Yes or no? As far as the defensive expenditure is concerned, the previous speakers have analysed it. Here we have to say that in order for a country to enter a borrowing crisis, that is to say, it cannot borrow from the markets and be forced to turn into a loan, which is tied to a programme that makes you poor, so that you can't pay your loan, it has a history that comes from an old age and not too old. I have an example. I had found some bonds from the OSE, which have been issued in 2002 and expired until 2019. These bonds are EUR 2.369 billion. At some point OSCE and OSCE were borrowed from the Greek state's money markets. That money doesn't know where they ended up. However, it will be checked where this money was taken, because the Greek State's guarantees were swallowed by tens of billions and not by 1 billion. And this is a very serious job that the Committee on the Truth of Public Debt has to do. It should, in other words, check whether and why the Greek State's guarantees have been brought down and we have led to our borrowing to an excessive extent to cover these gaps. I will be brief, but we will have to do some small analyses. As far as the memorials that we have entered are concerned, we need to discuss the debt that has been charged to us and which is necessary. It's a debt no one knows. We will once again do the revelation, but I shall also say to the committee. I am sorry to keep invoking the committee, but I did not have the time and time to speak to the Committee on Debt Control. We should therefore all know that we have borrowed state guarantees. We haven't borrowed cash. The EUR 53 billion of transnational loans are state guarantees, the EUR 144 billion of EFSF is EFSF's securities, i.e. debt bonds, while the International Monetary Fund has borrowed its currency, which is the SDR, which is not a currency, but a currency basket. When a debt is charged to us, which is a state guarantee, which has no disbursement costs from the country - at this time Germany can claim to have loaned us EUR 60 billion of state guarantees at zero cost, the Greek State has borrowed with Greek guarantees to the Greek banks of 203 billion, these are the figures, as we do not have a direct cost, so Germany does not have it - all this debt charged to the Greeks is impossible to repay because: Firstly, it is in the form of State guarantees. Secondly, we must see and repeat, all of us must read the loan contracts together and whether a state guarantee needs to be paid interest. I have never heard a state guarantee of interest, except when it is swallowed and if it is swallowed into the European Central Bank when we go our own bonds. Thirdly, the EFSF has charged us, beyond the huge borrowing costs and with debts to disburse loans, which we were paying up to the end of the year. At some point in 2012 the PSI became the PSI and at the end of 2012 it became the second debt repurchase with 11 billion to buy 30 of the markets. The first PSI was made at the cost of getting a nominal debt value of 206 billion and bringing it to almost half. However, the cost of borrowing for the PSI, which no one mentions, is EUR 70 billion, only for the PSI. The numbers are relentless. PSI's borrowing costs, that is, a loan taken by the Greek people to give 30 billion oil to some who were supposedly volunteering - left PASOK, which was on them all volunteering - we loaded them as Greek public, we paid the central banks and we paid interest. Where do I want to end up? That this PSI 70 billion debt is not in any moratorium. Read all the contracts again. Moratorium until 22 has the loans, which are the rest of EFSF, which is around EUR 110 billion. Let's go a little fast to the IMF loan. The International Monetary Fund has not produced - I shall disagree with Mr Varoufakis, we have also discussed as friends long before we are both in this House as parliamentarians - any loan contract. Why? Because there isn't. The cost of borrowing the International Monetary Fund is completely unknown. With my own calculations and under the statutes, and how many times you borrow over the IMF contribution, it reaches 3.70% at variable interest rates. Many may not understand, but it is a huge loan cost and at current fixed rate rates it exceeds 5%, which has no moratorium and we pay it as we know in the last days of each week by 2030. The cost of borrowing the International Monetary Fund was through two contracts. I would ask both the Audit Committee and our Parliament very much, because it is our responsibility and all the people we are participating in, to bring the loan contracts and to see the loan terms with the IMF, because what happened in Greece is also tragic and unprecedented, such as new definitions in the EFSF loan. It says in Article 9(2), if I am not mistaken, that EFSF can unilaterally - be careful - demand all disbursed loans now if we do not pay a instalment to the IMF. How many of you know that? Look, if we fail to pay off and we don't find it with the IMF, EFSF can lend you and pay you now, today, " yesterday" we're talking about finance, 145 billion. They tied the EFSF loan to the IMF loan, because there was no IMF loan and the Greek people were blackmailed. You're blackmailing paying the IMF, which is technically and not just the entire effort Greece has made. The huge crime that took place in our country was the transfer - we all know - of the loans that Greece had under Greek law to private individuals. We have carried it in a very nice technical way, a constitutional right - there is no PASOK and his constitutionalist - and we have charged it to the European taxpayers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u56	Here we go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u57	I'm sorry, I didn't see you. I want the Committee on Budgetary Control to be very careful here. I will leave this paper alone, because it is a lot, to see how the debt has left the private sector and has gone to taxpayers. The Greek debt was 203 billion dollars before haircut and it was 4 billion dollars later. And what happened, respectively? EUR 323 billion has been transferred to European taxpayers. Greece followed the crime of the Americans, who "were" their own crime in Greek bank data. The European taxpayers are currently coming and controlling the Greek Government and the Finnish colleague is going out - the god will make him - and he tells us that he wants his money to be paid and that he does not want to be blackmailed, etc. I would ask the Finnish colleague to bring us his loan contract, to tell us what he has said to the Finnish people and how he believes that the Finnish people will pay the money he has given us, the state guarantees, when he has poorly paid a people and brought him to the limits of collective depression. You'll forgive me for just a little more time. I'll leave two more - three paintings. Nobody knows practically what's behind the state debt? When we talk about state debt you should know that the derivatives markets, which Mr Varoufakis said to the committee yesterday, which approached 700 trillion, are based on 95% of government bonds. What does that mean? That a state bond, a state debt, supports a toxic derivative, which is ten times greater than world GDP. They did not want the moment that America had the problem and Greece moved its problem to Europe technically to collapse. Because if the 700 trillion tower collapsed - I'm going to file this paper too - the world economy would collapse. How did it raise the cost of borrowing, how did it raise the cost - and I will also present it - of the premiums in every Titanic statement? I had a debate yesterday with the honourable President of PASOK, Mr Venizelos, whether the statements of the same and others affect the cost of borrowing. Yes, they affect it to a very significant extent, to a dangerous extent. What happened in Greece and everyone was to overcharge households. Be careful, however, Greece is not the worst country. In Europe they hide another truth. They hide the truth that in the Netherlands the Netherlands household is three times more indebted than the available income it has in time. I mean, he owes three times more than he has the time. What does that mean? That the debt has been cumulated in households and does not appear in Europe, because their economies seem to produce GDP and do not have a risk. If the Netherlands economy, which is the first in the red line far above all else, is facing a problem, such as Ireland or Spain, in relation to its housing or consumer loans, the Netherlands economy, which is 'AA', the best in Europe, is now talking to us and is teaching us a lesson. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Also, let's talk about ELSTAT. ELSTAT is a huge crime to be investigated by all the committees. Inside ELSTAT a crime that took place was the transfer of bond clearing and securities from T+3 to T+10 - we know it. In the militarizations there was another big crime and we're gonna laugh a little bit. Let us remember the OPAP, because it is a listed company, which has been sold well or badly, even well, 650 million, but it has been paid back - take care of a listed company - its liquidation will take place in ten years. The T+3 days we did it T+10 years and we accepted it as TEIDE, we accepted it as Greek State. I mean, a listed company to clear its transfer in ten years and not in three days. In conclusion, I would like to say that, unfortunately, the truth is relentless. From 1981 to 2004, before Olympiad, the debt increased dramatically at a high rate. What this committee will consider is also the way in which state guarantees have been made over the years, because it is a secret cost. One number I will give you: EUR 25 billion in 1986 to 1989, when GDP was EUR 125 billion, not 300 million from abroad. We paid 25 billion guarantees because they had been given to CECE and cooperatives. All these costs were borne by the Greek economy to an extent which could not be considered. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done. The memorials brought a huge disaster. It's material and intangible. Intangible is the damage suffered by the country in its reputation, the damage suffered by the country to its citizens' health, in addition to suicide, bruising, depression and all of this. The statistics are all available and will be submitted to the House. Unfortunately for Europe, Mr. Vinen said that the Charter of European Union Rights does not apply to countries in the Memorandum and in a programme. Unfortunately, Mr. Papaconstantinou in an e-mail of him in 2011 took pleasure in his PASOK colleagues that "we will go through measures that are unconstitutional" and he was also very pleased. Finally, I conclude by saying that we must all know that if it is or is not sustainable it is the whole economy, it is not only the numerator - if you want - of the 'GDP' fraction, but also the denominator, but also the confidence that the world shows in the economy and its government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish. You've spoken twice a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u59	Yeah, I'm done. Who decides whether a government goes bankrupt, as we went bankrupt, does not decide whether a government decides either the IMF or the EFSF. Unfortunately, it is decided by multinational organisations involved in the banks, which lend us. In conclusion, I would like to say that this important effort, which is being done to investigate the causes of the country's entry into the memorandum and the consequences within the memorandum, is very important and I hope that its findings will help Greeks and European citizens not to repeat the same mistakes and finally to control their governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Kammenos. Mr Christos Stakoras, special speaker appointed by the New Democracy, has the floor. Mr. Stavura, you will have the appropriate tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the proposal by the Members of the SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks to set up a committee of inquiry into the subjection, implementation and implementation of the memorandums. The fact is that the country's accession to the tripartite support mechanism in May 2010 was a key point for its progress. Integration has had and had a significant impact on economic, social and political life. Fairly, therefore, the reasons and procedures for joining the support mechanism have caused and continue to give rise to the intense interest of the citizens and political parties in the country. During the accession period, and immediately after it, in 2010, we experienced conditions of communication storm. The aim is to write history under the terms and in accordance with the political interest of the then detainees. Since then, outside and within Parliament, I have several times pointed out that the evolution of events was not as they presented it, that the roots of the pathogens of the Greek economy, public finances, and the fervent dynamic accumulation of public debt are found in the 1980s, that the New Democracy is proud of its atrocities in the governance of the country and that the country's historical evolution will be written in appropriate time all together. It is a fact that gradually the vast majority of citizens understood developments, restored the truth to their political conscience and successive elections, neutralized over-interpretation and feasibility. However, the substantiated, objective and valid national self-assessment of the critical period, namely integration into the support mechanism, is still an open issue. This national action should aim at political investigation of the complex aspects of developments during the critical period, which will of course be based on serious, well-balanced and accurate scientific documentation, economic, accounting, statistical, legal. This openness will have to be tackled. I suppose we all agree that this serious process of successfully approaching the objective must be carried out in an environment of political normality, social peace, economic security and stability. Only then will the outcome become widely accepted, become national historical truth and will help to improve the country's progress. In the assessment of the New Democracy, the conditions mentioned above as necessary are not met at this stage and can rather be difficult to shape. Thus, at the outset of the proposed procedure, once it has been decided to launch it, the New Democracy considers that objective cannot be objectively achieved. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy considers that the proposal we are discussing is at least one of the following: firstly, the proposal is a pretext. The fact is that in recent months the mist of insecurity has covered the economic field. The country is in danger of falling back into recession. The public economy is shaking destabilization. The State has declared a partial internal payment stop while wiped off all the cash available to general government bodies. Investments are cancelled or entered in the refrigerator. The deposits are depleted and red loans are swelling. Loaning costs have ejected. This is obviously not the case with the treaty which they have identified as necessary for the proper conduct of the necessary national self-assessment. The New Democracy considers that the real aim of the proposal is to disorientate the citizens from the current difficult reality to which they have contributed the aggression, the revolts, the improvisations, the acrobatics, the contradictions of the government, a reality which has rapidly devastated its illusions. Secondly, the proposal by the domestic government is contradictory to what the foreign government supports. In other words, the proposal by the Members states that the economic policy programme has failed in full. At the same time, however, the Minister of Finance supports in writing the Eurogroup that the budgetary achievements of the previous government are a starting point and a starting point for an advantage for the country. I make these specific references in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] How, then, has the programme fully failed? At the same time, the Finance Minister supports the implementation of structural changes agreed by the previous government with the country's partners and lenders and undertakes to continue the efforts initiated and implemented by the previous government in several areas. I put this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] How, then, had the programme fully failed? The proposal of Members also includes an examination of the institutions, as it states: 'they have been legally intended to serve the implementation of the memorandums and the memorandum objectives, as is the General Secretariat for Revenue'. At the same time, however, the Minister for Finance commits itself, as the last e-mail to the partners for the further strengthening of the autonomy of the General Secretariat for Public Revenue, as shown by the latter. Date of birth: 4093/2012. I make these specific references in the Minutes. In this case, the previous government's Memorandum of Understanding according to this Government is good and needs support, but the Committee of Inquiry should consider him as bad. I therefore assume that he will also look into the facts of the present government, which invokes it. Can I add a point? I have heard SYRIZA's dear rapporteur condemning the financial rules in Europe. However, the government has committed itself to the first seven measures to strengthen budgetary discipline through the famous organic law, which it voted against last year. Would that also be the subject of the committee of inquiry? Thirdly, the submission of the proposal is impeccable. Have co-pilots understood that if the proposal referred to as ‘the political protagonists since October 2009’ is put into practice, should the Committee of Inquiry be invited to be invited to the former Prime Ministers at the time? Current partners of Ministers participating at the time and participating today in the negotiation? Current bank governors who were Ministers at the time? Foreign houses that are officially associates of Ministers and were then expressors of the government's debt restructuring policy - the famous PSI? And natural persons from abroad who own or hold top positions in the institutions? This is obviously still not the case with the treaty which they have identified as necessary for the proper conduct of the necessary national self-assessment. The New Democracy considers that the submission of the proposal is invalid and that it would be preferable for it to be launched shortly later, since the situation is stabilised and the ship - we wish - in more calm, therefore safer waters. Fourthly, the proposal is incomplete. Since its object is to implement and implement the memorandum, why does the proposal not include the period after January 2015, during which the present Government requested and signed the four-month extension of the memorandum? In particular, the contract signed is the third amendment to the main financial facility contract. The first was in December 2012 to include a positive European decision to enhance the sustainability of public debt. The second was December 2014, when the previous government also requested the extension of the contract for the first two months of 2015. And the third was February this year. In fact, the content of the updates is exactly the same. They are all governed by English law. They shall reserve the exclusive jurisdiction in the courts of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in the event of a dispute. They state that Greece waives any immunity which it is or may be entitled to in respect of its own or assets. And most importantly? All updates are linked to the main financial facility agreement of 15 March 2012, i.e. to the period referred to in the proposal for a Committee of Inquiry. Indeed, the fact that the existing memorandum continues is confirmed by the communication from the European Financial Stability Fund - I am tabling this in the Minutes - as well as by the communications from both the International Monetary Fund and the European Central Bank. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In particular, according to the letter from the International Monetary Fund, and after the agreement has been signed with the partners, the evaluation will be carried out as it is mentioned - I put it in the Minutes - in the context of the sixth update of the current memorandum. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The same applies to the European Central Bank, which - and I put it in the Minutes - states that the evaluation will be carried out on the basis of the current memorandum. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But this update, the third update, of the SYRIZA-ANEL Government, includes, in accordance with the agreement of 20 February, an additional unfavourable condition that the two previously did not have, the return to the European Financial Stability Fund of about EUR 11 billion from the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund. And that should at some point be taken into account and assessed. Fifthly, the proposal is unclear. It does not make the subject of the examination absolutely clear. Will it address the assessment of policies pursued, as I have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur, of the results obtained, of policies and results, or will it focus only on documenting acts or omissions with evidence of committed offences? It is clear that their policies and results are judged by the electoral process and not by the committees of inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the New Democracy considers that the proposal of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks is pretext, contradictory, void, incomplete, unclear. That's why she doesn't support her. The House will make its decision. The policy arithmetic, governmental management policy and the government's communication strategy say that the proposal will be adopted. In this version, despite the low expectations of a good target approach, the New Democracy, with a decisive criterion of its long-term interests, will support the search for the truth. Besides, New Democracy has never played for more than forty years in public life and has never played for the present and future of the country. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Stakoura. Mr Artemis Matthaopoulos has the floor from the People's Association - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I should like to begin my speech with an unpleasant fact, with a complaint, or - to be more precise - with the well-known complaint showing the scale of decency towards a party which, for two consecutive times, has been shown to be a third political force in the country, but also a more general decency towards Parliament, in its way of operation, to the Members and the institutions we are serving or supposed to serve. I am of course referring to the repeated, unconstitutional and unconstitutional refusal of a judiciary officer to join elected MPs from the Greek people, the unfair and temporary conserved Members of the Golden Dawn, who are not here today to present their views or to vote during the vote. Instead, they remain without any justification. I should like to inform you that, until the day before, this gross crime against the Constitution, which explicitly states that the way this House operates is done by three hundred MPs and not fewer Members, it has been done in advance, but there has been even a lack of justification, regardless of whether that justification was obviously not sufficient. This time it didn't even happen. In other words, people who are not here today have not been informed and have not been notified of the reason why a judicial officer is not allowing them to participate in the present procedure. If the procedure were to be followed, I would not be the special speaker. If the procedure were to be followed, the result of the vote would be three more Members of Parliament. That if it were done in any other state, ladies and gentlemen, how much more in your own parliaments, the perpetrators of this condemnation would have been in prison, but in Memorandum Greece - you see - this crime is covered and perpetuated. Let me come to the issue of setting up a committee of inquiry into the regime in which Greece was subject to the Memorandum. I have heard the intercategories of the parties between them and many of the charges are true, but you do not say the absolute truth, because one is this, that responsibility burdens everyone and is collective. And in order to prevent some from urging and saying that I blame the government, which is only two months old, so it is impossible to participate in the crime committed in the last six years with the memoranda, I will say that it is partly right and right, but with a footnote and I come to this. The first question we need to ask ourselves is this simple: Is there a need to set up such a committee? Apparently there is. But what are the limits, the areas of responsibility, the role it will play and what will be the results after the investigation when it is carried out? Because if we discuss the search for political responsibilities, there's no reason to do it. The Greek people did it on January 25th. He condemned with his only weapon, i.e. his vote, the memorial parties, or - if you like - the parties that contributed to his impoverishment and impoverishment. So if the committee confines itself to seeking political responsibilities, it has already been done by the Greek people, and there is no reason to discuss anything further than that. The second question is much more specific: Are there criminal responsibilities to specific persons, which in alpha or beta way led the country to the "maximum" of the Memorandum? And here the answer - unfortunately, for many in here - is also affirmative, because we all know what the previous conflict has done, especially the two parties of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, to lead one country to poverty, suicide and the derivatives of the Memorandum, which have characterised a good or national achievement. Let us not forget something very important, ladies and gentlemen. In this Chamber, when SYRIZA was supposed to seek criminal responsibilities for persons on other important issues, such as Lagard's scandal, here we set up polls and exempted persons, who had and proved to have criminal responsibilities for this major issue to date, which has been employing Greek society in recent years. So we consider this to be a clear pretext. For communication reasons, SYRIZA calls on the House to discuss the setting-up of a committee which has absolutely no competence and, as we have become accustomed to so far, whether it is unavoidable - the law provides for the law on the responsibility of Ministers - or for justice to be acquitted, as we have always seen in recent times. Also, one of the issues that have been raised here today is the disagreement between SYRIZA and the New Democracy on when to start control by the committee responsible, whether this will examine the events starting from 2009 - which you are typically right, because Greece has since started joining the, as you call it, support mechanism - while the New Democracy says that this investigation should start from 1981. We agree with both proposals on one condition that this could start much earlier both in 2009 and in 1981. It could start from 1974. I shall immediately explain why this House should be able to propose this year, that is, the principle of post-population. I have a painting in front of me. Let me give you some figures, which are indicative of the role that some have played in here. On the occasion of the previous position of the rapporteur for the New Democracy, who said - and this is what I maintained - that the New Democracy has been participating thirty years in the public life of the country, the offer of the New Democracy and its partners - PASOK, the previous coup d'état - is reflected in specific figures. We are therefore starting from 1974 when the New Democracy received a small amount of debt, which only increased to approximately 31.2% in 1981. The intersection of the two parties in power - New Democracy and PASOK - is followed by the following elements: In 1990 PASOK handed over to New Democracy an external debt of about 80.7% of GDP. In 1993, respectively, the New Democracy handed over to PASOK an external debt of 112% of GDP. In 2004, PASOK delivers to the New Democracy an external debt of approximately 109% of GDP. And in 2009, the date proposed by SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, New Democracy again delivers to PASOK an external debt of 120% of GDP. Six years ago Greece's debt amounted to 120% compared to Gross National Product. Today is over 180%. This is the New Democracy offer. This is PASOK's offer to public life and Greeks. These elements, of course, can contribute to a case-file, for which some must at last pay. They have killed thousands of our compatriots. Most of the Greek people have been impoverished. Over 30% of the labour force remains inactive because unemployment rates are increasing. Of course, let us not forget that before 2009 and after 1981 we had other incidents, which contributed to the growth of the foreign debt. Let us remember the case, for example, of the Olympic Games, where the country was convicted because some contractors wanted to treasure. Let's remember the stock exchange scandal in 1999, when - listen, listen! - the government itself officially urged Greek citizens to play their money in bubble shares, and later to lose property and kill thousands of Greek citizens. Let us remember the media and corruption equipment which each political party has been practicing at all times. Let us remember the scandal of the banks, for which the Greek people in time of crisis paid the famous recapitalisation. The question is: Since 2009, and after the banks have started to present supposedly deficits in their cash in order to ask for recapitalisation by the State, or has there been a concrete and targeted plan starting in 1980, where credit cards, loans, holiday loans, loans, loans, knowing that tomorrow - tomorrow - will be able by law to seize up to the first place? So here we have a line of events starting from 1974 to today. If we really want to seek criminal and political responsibilities, we cannot confine ourselves to years from 2009 onwards. I will make a note to be fair to the Greek people who have chosen SYRIZA - Independent Greeks. One will say that this responsibility is not burdened with this conflict. You have made a promise and an oath to the Greek people that after taking over the power of the country, you will terminate the memorandum and lead the country out of memorandum measures and loan contracts. So there is a possibility that you will not do that and that seems to be the case so far. I am referring to the famous negotiations. An agreement on the content of which we have not yet been aware was signed on 20 February. There are other demands which prove that, if this government does not honour the confidence shown by the Greek people, it will also have the same responsibilities as the parties it blames for exactly the same reason. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In the next one or two minutes - I will not need any more, Madam President - I will make a brief reference to how we drove here and why. In short, I could describe as simple as I can that a corrupt state, the Greek state, which was plagued by a crisis even before the economic crisis, has brought the European Central Bank against the help of the International Monetary Fund. The key element in the whole case, since we are discussing foreign debt, is the European Central Bank. At internal level, it is certainly about the policies pursued by the governments concerned, but since the external factor is the one that now affects these decisions, we should see what the European Central Bank is. It is a private bank, which serves specific interests, which lends us money. What does that mean, practically, in economics? That even if Greece did not have a pathogenesis in the economy like you all mentioned earlier, just because it does not have a primary production sector, that is, when the country produces nothing, when the Greeks have no income, it would have been forced to increase debt, because the euro paid it when the change in exchange rate started in 2000 to 2002 and continues to pay it very expensive, because this money that the interest-payers are lending us with interest rates, which are really worthwhile. With this we have now come to owe more than EUR 320 billion and with the same model, with the same trumped-up road, if we take the same steps, a vicious circle will perpetuate and therefore Greece will continue to owe the century to ever. What, then, must be done to deal with this unpleasant situation? You spoke of half-measures, negotiation, renegotiation, stricter control by tiles and so on. You are completely wrong, because what needs to be done above all is to name part or all the debt as burdensome. In order to do this, we must be aware of the definition of burdensome debt. The definition is clear. Why is debt burdened? Firstly, the Greek people did not create it. He didn't consent to this crime committed against him. The creditors or creditors themselves knew that. Secondly, borrowing is not used for any national or state benefit. We don't borrow to make schools, we don't borrow to build hospitals, we don't borrow to build a better society. We're lending to pay back the debt of international loan sharks. Finally, there is the issue of interest rates, where we heard the outrageous fact that the Greeks should not be outraged because they are borrowed at favourable rates of interest. I leave this to the crisis of the Greeks who are watching us. What did other countries do? They used the example of Greece in 1936 when Ioannis Metaxas refused to repay debt to a Belgian bank. With this remark, Ecuador, for example, required some of the debt to be classified as burdensome and not to pay it. What happened? Did the planes invade and bombed Ecuador, Argentina, Norway in 2006? No, it was simply followed and respected. It was followed by what gives every state the right to say, namely that when you are not available to meet the needs of your citizens, then you are not obliged to pay for the debts. So that is what Greece must do today is refuse to pay off any debt, because they are burdensome. We have all the legal weapons to lead us in this direction and don't say again that the refusal to pay off will bring new debts. It is hardly possible to refuse to repay debts, which we do not have to pay. As to the argument that this rupture will lead to a total dissolution of the Greek economy, see what society we live in, see how the average Greek citizen lives, in order to understand the sound reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Matthew. Mr Constantine Barriotas has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin with something, which I think is important. We are the only, let me speak, a memorial party in this House. We are here from the last elections, none of us has a direct political relationship with the period that we are discussing. Nevertheless, we think it is very important to talk and we think that being shareholders, if you like, we will be able to give a perspective other than all the old parties. I would remind you that today the Great Week begins. It's a big Monday, April 6th, 2015. The time is about 21:00, I hope it didn't pass much. The government is seventy days, two bills and two committees. That's the second one. It is also very important in the castle created, namely the fact that the Greek society is currently under the burden and stress of the newly threatened disaster. It is well known that the budgetary deadlock is intensified - it is confessed even by government officials - and we have reached such a level of stress and stress that statements such as those made by Mr Mardas, if they were correctly transferred to the press, which assured that there is money to Easter, are considered as relief and optimistic. We're there. We have been assured that we have money for a week. It is precisely the right time, in our view, for an examination. In fact, for an examination, which looks at the past, it irritates the past and creates conflicts. It is time for conflicts, rather than for national understanding, rather than for alarms to resolve the problem we have for the future. We believe, perhaps, in some national traditions, turn our backs and look into the past. It is also the moment to expect from an old-fashioned or small-party government, of what we have often had in the past and which has largely led the country here to promote the micro-party interest in the national and to diversions, that is, to do exactly what the government is doing today, in our view, a diversion. It now brings the issue back to Easter, as a smokescreen, to cover the embarrassment and problem it has, to complete the negotiation - I suspect - mainly within the party and less than our allies. But the spectacle without the bread - we know it from the time of the Roman Empire - is not far away. That's why the Romans always combined them, provided spectacles and bread. Now we have sights to cover the lack of bread. However, this type of policy leads to anger. The results of this policy do not last long and become very quick to rage. As the government stays undisturbed and does not solve the major, the sooner the anger will turn against her. As much as some believe that they can direct the anger of the people, the young people, the poor to some who have ruled in the past, I fear that the wrath will soon turn to those who do not govern today and cannot give the solutions they should. In the post-war period - let me turn a very brief backwards - there have been forty-seven committees of inquiry. The results were low. One ended up in pre-inquiry. Similarly, the pre-reviews were nine. Three of them ended up in the special court. None of them brought any substantial results or any essential convictions. I read in the proposal for this examination that the issues raised during the period from October 2009 to January 2015 should also be investigated by the political leaders of this period and only this period. I think that this alone is a transparent approach. He could have party names and names of politicians instead of dates. Also, it's transparent and very obvious who's left out of this investigation. Again, the names and orders are known. In my opinion, it is scandalously protecting specific events and specific political and specific responsibilities. I think it is well-known - and it can only be that whatever theory exists at a conspiracy level cannot prevent it - that the memorandum was the end of the choices following our entry into EMU. That's the truth. It may be a bad and wrong choice. Did it become a mismanagement of the memoirs? That's possible. The reason why we entered the memorandum is the management of economic, political and social life - I would say - at least since 2001. It can't be cut off. It is the answer to the financial derailment that preceded it, and this is not imprinted on the elements of a dubious record in a baker's tree, on a napkin or on anything else. It is proven and accepted by EUROSTAT. The figures we have and we will see then have been accepted by the European services. The government, by a preamble, forgives those who were in power, took initiatives or anything other than 2002 that we entered the euro by 2009. This regulation favours not only its ally, Mr Kammenos, but also the Sri Lankan and Karamanlis governments. It seems, therefore, that one of the aims of this policy is to broaden the right-wing basis on which the government is founded. It seems SYRIZA's government is detecting new alliances in the field of right. We only have to see what the benefits we expect are, offering abundantly political support. So where should anyone start? Since 2009? Since 2002, since the entry into the euro, as we say? Since 1981, as New Democracy says? Or from the great loan of England, in the period 1822-1823? I think it is the first historically examinatory committee of things that has not come to an end. We believe that 2002 is fatal, inevitably the starting point of the economic period of our time, the one that we are going through, even that must be the beginning. I would remind you very quickly that at this time there is Olympiada and the way it was organized. There's the equipment, the submarines that's elevated. There is SIEMENS. There are the structured bonds, the "kobares", the tenths of Elias, the stock exchange, dozens of scandals or economic problems. All this really needs to be investigated. Are we going to give us all forgiveness? Are we going to see what happened from October 2009 until 2015, why is this how this government works? Even Mr. Papadimoulis disappears by twitter and disagrees. There are too many questions that need to be answered from 2000 to this. We need to see, if we want to be honest and nationally beneficial, how from the top moment of the post-multi-population, from the euphoria of 2002, with the introduction to the euro, the hard core of Europe, from that memorable first night of Olympiad, we have arrived here with this situation, with the nation devastated and our economy destroyed. Who refused to do the reforms? We have to look into it. Who was going down the street against the proposal, Yannitzi, for the insurance? Who are they who did back, why did they scare her and take her back? Why did they take her back? Who were they increasingly claiming from the public budget? Who gave off money and positions to the public in small and large, small and large interests? Who have raised up little and great corruption during these years? Who have steadily increased the deficit, the debt, the borrowing rather than making reforms and attempts to limit it? Who gave up money? Who were they struggling to remember a word that we tend to forget? Above all, how did we get to the 2007-2009 budgetary deflection? How did we get 15% deficit, 129% debt after a period that was stable around 100% of GDP? For six to seven years it was stable. There is a period of PASOK and New Democracy, which was stable and suddenly launched. It's a sharp curve upwards. It may have been imposed by the Treaties. We cannot ignore it if we want to analyse the period. We have reached 60 billion loans in two years, all time record! It's never happened before. It's most of the money that the Greek state has ever borrowed. Who, then, brought the country to the brink of the memorandum, to the brink of bankruptcy? This is as important as exploring who managed the memorandum and how, otherwise, the conclusions are lacking. October 2009. It reminds me of a trial in which the ambulance driver and the emergency doctor are to be tried, who lost a car accident victim, while in advance the drunk driver who passed in red and hit him has been acquitted. This image gives the method of this type and the definition of 2009 as a starting point. One wonders at the same time whether the objective is, in the end, the condemnation of some, from 2009 onwards or the discharge of them and, as I said before, of all. It seems that the government's pursuit is at least an enlarged left-wing alliance, which creates a front that goes beyond the SYRIZA-ANEL alliance, in my opinion, seeks at least an enlarged alliance of the left and right, against the co-government of the Samarian New Democracy and the PASOK. In other words, it has a little New Democracy against New Democracy, but most of all it has against everyone, very convenient for us. Like I said at first, we weren't here. It's none of our business. We have nothing to lose, just to win. If we had the micro-party logic that Parliament has been dealing with for years - you will allow me - if we had the micro-party logic of expecting the benefits of a week, the television night and two days, in the newspapers, we would probably take a blow and a little oil, we would sit in the corner and keep the fire on. However, we are not happy with this development because, as I said at the outset, the country is with its backs on the wall, it is more twisted than ever these days, with a liquidity of zero - and we all know it - with a dead end from which no light appears. The Government is not clearly in a position to give an answer. The issue, gentlemen, is saving the country, is getting out of the crisis, is not what happened in 2009, or who is to blame more or less at the present time. In any case, political responsibilities have been attributed. You all know that Prime Ministers, Ministers, important actors in the political life of the country, have disappeared from this House because they have been punished by the people as being due, in accordance with the normal procedure of political responsibility. If we really want to gain a benefit, as I said before, instead of setting ourselves 'trials' according to the perpetual alliances that are created or dissolved in the House, instead of throwing the ball at the stage 1981, 1974, 1822, possibly, and once we have to do it now, Easterly, in the political conditions that I described, we must, in our opinion, do so in a way beneficial and efficient, see from 2002 onwards the way the Greek political elite has dealt with, the policy that has created, the paths that have created the debt, the pathology that led to political and economic derailment and draw conclusions, not as prosecutors who are punishing or accusing, but as politicians who are interested in the future. Because, gentlemen, I think this is the moment of fleeing to the future. We're either going to get over the end in which we've been here for many years, or we're going to stay here forever. On this path there are no spaces for micropolitical and cheap communication policies. This time the Left, ladies and gentlemen, needs to be lifted to the extent of its circumstances, its historical circumstances, to handle the country it has taken, with its responsibility and the seriousness it is responsible for and to help overcome the crisis by looking ahead, not excavating the past to hide behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u66	Thank you. The Minister has asked for the floor for a minute, Mr Dimitrios Mardas, on staff. You have the floor for a minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u67	Thirty seconds I'm gonna need it. I would ask my dear colleagues, when you convey my statements to Parliament or elsewhere, to transfer the whole of my statement or at least the meaning of my statement and not part of my statement. When one refers to a question as to whether one will be paid for Easter, the answer is 'pay' or 'will not be paid'. Whether he's paid doesn't mean he won't be paid by the end of the month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u68	Thank you. It was less than thirty seconds. Mr. Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor, as a matter of priority, a speaker from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Madam President. This debate comes in the days of a badly-famous prank, a farce called the Debt Accounting Committee, and which, according to the President's own statement, is a new historic moment. Truly, these historic moments, which we have been living in recent times, are parallel, and I wonder how much we will last for such historic moments! It was also called the Public Debt Truth Committee, as if a committee had to be set up to see what is the truth about public debt. This is an arbitrary move by the President, who can have her own agenda and her work, of course, is being carried out at a time when the same Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, after meeting Christine Lagard, stressed that we would fulfil all our obligations arising from the service of public debt and the case of unilateral debt decommissioning or part of that debt, as the previous government did. Of course, it is not, as we appreciate, the President of the Parliament at another wavelength of government policy and policy that meets the interests of the bourgeoisie, because it is precisely part of the same strategy to purify and acquit the capitalist system by putting the burden on a state debt that suddenly fell on our heads. But this debt is a child of the system. Capitalist growth itself is responsible for the state debt and is not a peculiarity of Greece. In all the capitalist economies, more or less developed, there is a state debt, which was, of course, made in the conditions of the development of capitalism, in order to finance business groups, to form a favourable investment and tax environment for capital, to exploit public investment and the policy of procurement in the logic of supporting the needs of capitalist groups and, in essence, is based on the great naval expenditure that is not related to ensuring territorial integrity. Of course it is a capitalist debt, a state debt, which is growing, as has happened in Greece and not only in Greece - see the example of France, Italy and a number of other capitalist countries - in conditions of a capitalist crisis. Of course, the second aim is to be legitimised through this Committee of audits in the popular awareness that the debt, which is less or less due to the Greek people, must be paid for, that is, a debt which has not been done to meet the people's needs but which has been done to meet the needs of business groups. At this time, therefore, the proposal for a law on the part of the Government for the creation of a parody committee, in the view of the JRC, is in fact a proposal for a committee of inquiry to subject Greece to the Memorandum and Surveillance regime. It is a proposal that comes under the responsibility of the SYRIZA - ANEL co-determination, even though the co-government itself extends the loan contract and the memorandum. Besides, in the introductory version of the proposal for a Committee of Inquiry, you yourself stress that the first loan contract was signed in May 2010 linked to the first Memorandum. Therefore, credit contracts are not disconnected from the Memorandums. The proposal to set up this committee is, of course, disorientated at the moment when a broad consensus is expressed on the need for a government agreement with partners, i.e. the European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, in the context of the implementation of the policy and strategic choices of the Euromonstrate and under conditions of sovereignty of the monopolistic groups, as expressed by the other parties of counter-population. So the establishment and functioning of the committee is intended to increase meaningless bipartisan controversy, in the well-known coconut battles which we have been monitoring at times. And because in this sport two players always take part willingly and the New Democracy is asking for its own proposal to set up a committee of inquiry to be discussed in due course. But it is not the basic aim of disorientation. What is the main aim of this proposal? What is the substance of this proposal to set up a committee of inquiry? To obscure the main problem, the cause of the exacerbation of popular problems, the cause of the generalised attack on working class and other popular strata. The cause consists of the manifestation of the capitalist crisis and the consequent urban policy of its management, as codified by the Memorandums. The Memorandums incorporate key strategic choices of the European Union. It is a capitalist crisis that took place in 2007 in the United States by digging off mortgages. It was carried out synchronised in all developed capitalist economies and in Greece at the end of 2008. All this time, of course, we have heard about a crisis in capitalism, about a crisis in the financial system, about a crisis in the neoliberal management model, about a debt crisis, about a liquidity and lending crisis and a number of other aggressive definitions that have no end. All these efforts, all those interpretations they wanted to give had a common feature. The attempt to obscure the character of the crisis, that we are dealing with, that is, a carabinatically capitalist crisis that is found in the DNA of the capitalist system itself, which is in the contradictory commodity character of capitalist production, its anarchy and its unequality, the tendency to ensure first the additional capitalist profit by introducing new machinery more productive and also by exporting capital to countries with cheaper labour force. They are factors that exacerbate the opposition of capital - labour force, the opposition between the social nature of production and the individual peculiarisation of its results due to the individual ownership of the means of production. Capitalist economy means accumulating unscrupulous profits. It means that these unsatisfactory gains to be reproduced as capital must re-entry into the production process, that is to say, as vampires of new unpaid work, turn it into a commodity that, by selling it, will be expressed in a new profit. Thus, the motivation of the ever-increasing capitalist profit, the intensity of the exploitation of workers, and particularly in the conditions of retreat of the labour movement, is the driving force behind capitalist production and economy. The acceleration and intensity of the production process at its ends also means that the opposition between the social character of production and the individual idiosyncraticisation of its results is exacerbated. In other words, the rich are becoming richer and poorer. This manifestation of the capitalist crisis cannot prevent Greece from participating in a regionalist union such as the European Union or the circulation of the euro. Any form of political management cannot prevent it from being either liberal or social-democratic or any form of financial management, restrictive or expansive. It is intended, in other words, to reflect on the fact that this capitalist crisis has been used to load the burdens of this crisis and its management on the backs of the people's barracks, through tax raid, wage cuts and pension cuts, cuts in social spending, but at the same time, at the same time, shielding the competitiveness of business groups, defending capitalist profit and, of course, forming a new, even more favourable ground for the forthcoming capitalist recovery. We are, of course, talking about a territory which can only be achieved through the reduction of the labour force price, overturning the working, insurance and trade rights, through the liberalisation of the labour market and overturning the insurance system, in order to make labour power more cheap, in order to increase the degree of exploitation that is also the exclusive, in the final analysis, as a factor of shielding the competitiveness of business groups and tackling the downward trend in the average profit rate and to formulate new education for the action of the overcompensated capital through the liberalisation of markets, privatisation and the divestment of public property, through the expansion of action in new areas such as health, education, waste management and a number of others. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] In other words, it is the capitalist restructuring, the reforms as you call them, which are necessary in this process to facilitate the reproduction of capital. Really, what kind of failure do you talk about on the basis of the above data? Has he not achieved these goals, namely cheap labour force and new profitable areas for capital? Of course, and from this point of view, the measures provided for in the Memorandum are not an exception to Greece. They have been implemented and applied throughout the European Union, whether they are in a memorandum or not, or have a crisis, or have a high or less high government debt. Thus, Greece is not the experimental animal. Of course we are not dealing with a debt crisis that has turned into a national tragedy, as you say in your proposal. You cover up the class character of the crisis, because today there are still some who win. There are business groups that have increased their market share, which have increased their profits by exploiting the capitalist crisis, because of course the crisis manifests inequality in sectors, sectors and also in the economy. However, the permanent loser, who was influenced by the capitalist crisis, is essentially the productive forces and especially the first and main labour force through its depreciation. This is the result and not a so-called 'national tragedy', as you call it. At the same time, you continue the negotiations in the framework of the agreement of 20 February. You continue the loan contract and the memorandum for another four months. On the basis of this agreement, supervision continues, as does evaluation. Non-union measures or the promotion of privatisation are a continuation, in other words, of previous policy. That is why, and today, this agreement does not come to the House to discuss it, because if it was a philosophical agreement, you would bring it first and foremost to discuss and vote on it. You do not bring it to the House, precisely so that the matching which will be expressed by the vote between SYRIZA, the ANELs, the New Democracy, the PASOK and the River does not appear. Really, who are you negotiating for? Who are you negotiating this tough deal for? You're doing this for the monopolistic groups. That is why the logic of 'non-existent measures' is precisely the same. So what you want, through the negotiation of you, is to deal with the inadequacy of the memorandum, which was manifested in the difficulty it had in capitalist development. That is why you are promoting another'mixture', as you say, in order to facilitate, through the reduction of the public debt service, public funding for capitalist enterprises and not, of course, the enormous losses suffered by the people. Therefore, the negotiation you are negotiating, this mixture that you are presenting is necessary for capital and business groups, which is why the Government is a firm ally is the Business and Industry Association, which is why you have the acceptance of the New Democracy, the PASOK and the River. Against this policy, we have samples of writing. In particular: Evade the inner loan to pay the lenders. In this altar you sacrifice the satisfaction of the people's needs. You bring an act of legislation that is challenging, where you delete fines from tax and customs fraud made by large business groups, at the same time as you call on the people to pay the carpets, the fees of trade and solidarity. You are creating new conditions of tax raid for the people's layers, at the same time as keeping the tax privileges of big capital in full. And all this, of course, is happening at a time when the atlasm of the government manifests itself. You have reached the point where you place the United States, as a regulator, on the issue of the exploitation of Greece's mineral wealth. You consider the United States to be a key factor in the region's stability, and of course you are moving directly to the United States and LOCKHEED, amounting to EUR 500 million. That is to say, through this initiative by the government, we have an attempt at political choice to cover up class government policy. Since someone will say that the JRC is too hasty, we say that the good day since this morning seems, since not only do you conflict with people's problems, that is, with the capitalist system and the interests of capital, but you are subject to this policy that meets its needs. At the opposite end of this policy is the JRC's proposal for a law, which, Madam President, has not yet come to be discussed. Unless you provide as President, so that we do not have as a party to bring in a new proposal for a law which includes the new agreement, the new memorandum, the possible new loan agreement to be signed by the new government of SYRIZA - ANEL, to simply update the specific proposal that we have tabled. I shall conclude, Madam President. Thank you for your tolerance, too. In this respect, therefore, the people must not show any tolerance to government policy. He must organise his struggle and counter-response to restore the enormous losses he has suffered to meet modern and expanded needs, in the context of more general breaches and overthrows that have to reach the level of power. From what I have stressed so far, it is clear that we cannot vote for the committee being set up. We'll be part of it. Of course, as our parliamentary representative has pointed out, we do not need a committee to be able to investigate the capitalist system itself and to indicte it indictment. Marx himself did so much before us and he doesn't need another trial of capitalism. Suffice through this process to draw conclusions for the people, the need to overthrow capitalism and build socialism - communism that is the future of humanity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Karathanasopoulos, for your information, the proposal put forward by the JRC has been forwarded from me to the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u71	We know, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u72	Transmission to the General Accounting Office of the State in response is pending.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u73	We know that. We've been informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u74	The matter was discussed in the Conference of Presidents. You will also be informed by Mr Pafilis, your parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u75	...just keep it up to date...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u76	He had a political hint. You have not taken it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u77	The next one and last of the speakers is Mr. Andreas Loverdos from PASOK. I would like to point out that at this stage there was not one of the speakers who complied with time. All time has been violated. Let's see if the last speaker will give a good example! [[Noise - Protests from the ward of PASOK]] Well, I won't interrupt him, so we can see if the self-restriction works.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u78	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of proposing the positions of our party, of the PASOK - Democratic Group, of setting up a committee of inquiry under Rules 68(2) of the Constitution and 144 next of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I have the honour to suggest in an aggressive way, as the truth imposes, the arguments concerning the price of our prolongation, common sense, respect for recent history and, above all, the interest of the people and Greece. And where should I start?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u80	Come on, de!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u81	Come on, de! Where should I begin, ladies and gentlemen, of the Couple?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u82	Start from 1821!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u83	Let me begin by telling a personal poem. I repeat that this is a step and not a simple experience. On 7 October 2009, I took over the Ministry of Labour and Social Security by Minister Fani Petralia. When the delivery-receipt process took place, a gentleman behind her standing made me meanings with great perseverance. I didn't give him any attention because I was looking out for what Mrs. Petralia was saying to me. But he was beyond the limits of taxation, and that's why I asked him who he is and what he wants. He was the Governor of IKA, Mr. Theodores Ampatzoglou, who said to me: "If, Minister, you do not immediately borrow 800,000 euros, we will not be able to pay the pensions in December and the Christmas present." A few hours later, the Free Professional Insurance Agency asked me for the same reason of 650,000,000 euros and a few minutes later the OGA was further than EUR 850,000,000. The total was 2,300,000 euros. That is, a lightning up of the deficit by 1% of GDP before actually taking over my portfolio. My first phone call as Minister was in the Minister of Finance's office with a request for funding - a loan of EUR 2,300,000. It is well known, and I am simply mentioning an example. I don't say that the follow-up is known to everyone. It's a reality. There is no Greek and Greek that ignores or can reasonably claim to ignore what was happening in the country and its economy. That is why, ladies and gentlemen - despite the fact, of course, that we will be participating - we believe that there is no point in this proposal to set up the committee of inquiry. And it is indicative that in one way or another none of the opposition parties are voting for it. The Collapse should be considered by this. You say something and you find the whole Opposition to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u84	Memories we see!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u85	This is a divisive move, a move of useless political tactics with unique motive, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, the distraction you want to make. And I feel, ladies and gentlemen, that I have the absolute right to express with vivid and intensely and aggressively this opinion, because in 2009-2010, from the then Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, they were hearing thoughts about becoming a committee of inquiry for the period 2004-2009. In public terms too, and despite the fact that I was Minister, I opposed that proposal. When the most serious crisis erupts in Greece after World War II, the first political obligation of the respective rulers, is to give solutions and not to showcases. And solutions presuppose a union of powers, not divisions and divisions. Even if the party benefit is obvious, it's just micro-party and nothing more. And nothing to do with the public interest. The PASOK government at that time did not resort to this instrument. The Group of the European People's Party, as you have rightly said, has tabled a proposal which has not been promoted. And for the record, let me mention that the Members of the time signed this proposal, namely Mrs Sakorafa, Mr Panaritis and Mr Kurublis, Mr Parastatides, Mr Buddouris, Mr Diaras, Mr Economou. Some things matter, because a loss of a recent memory is not justified. But today, contrary to that practice, I would be happy to see the present majority on a proposal for a committee of inquiry - and I say again - trying to divert politically why? He needs him, because he fails to do what is due to the interests of the country and the people, or because he is unsuccessfully doing what he is doing so far and as innocent pigeon tells us that this is nothing, there is nothing serious, judiciary and so forth, a mere political examination of things will be done. As if those who say so do not know that any committee of inquiry under Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure, has powers of inquiries and competences of the prosecutors and can, in this way, create political situations that go beyond the limits in a pretext and defined - well-defined manner. Ladies and gentlemen, when you do this, the economy sinks every day. And while the economy is sinking - and the arguments we call them every day, I don't have time to repeat them here, what happens to the real economy and the market - in the face of terror, not the fear of party costs, you are inactivating. And don't say, we're a majority, because the answer is that you're still a majority. In two months' time, the reduction of the persuasiveness you can exercise toward the Greek people, nor can you make a break. Result? Inertial and stillness. There is no strategy in our relationship with lenders and partners. There is not even a squeeze for development policy. There is abstention from the exercise of day-to-day government tasks. And sometimes it impresses the fact that in parliamentary debates the government is not represented, but dozens of ministers are here as if there were no tragic jobs and obligations in their Ministries - you are not represented by the presence of some, twenty, fifteen ministers. I imagine that this shows in the most obvious and eloquent way, what we understand those who have experience that everything has been immobilized or even most. In contrast to the ministers, with themselves first of all, such as the Minister of Finance, but in the morning, but not in the evening, not for concepts, but for figures.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u86	You don't blame him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u87	Contrary to major governmental issues, the ministers have been able to confront each other. But the Minister, the Deputy Minister! But one Minister, the other Minister! And instead of all this, instead of getting ahead of strategy issues, as well as the day-to-day government machine, consuming time in distractions like today. This proposal, in the way it is formulated, mainly not by its motives alone but by the way it is formulated above all, is another act in the tragedy of populism, that is, the general but unfounded verbal complaint against all others. That is why the absurdity here stems, that the period from Greece's accession to a programme in May 2010 and January 2015, which the current government took over, should be considered. It is a real absurdity, which we shall of course vote against. In other words, it awakened, according to this absurd logic, one day the PASOK government in October 2009 to May 2010 and because it had nothing else to do with it, thought to create a crisis in Greece and thus built the memoranda that built the crisis. And according to what the majority rapporteur said: "It has involved Greece and its citizens in the power of the most tragic crisis in the country after the civil war." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] They did not create the memorials of the crisis, ladies and gentlemen. It's for kids.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u88	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u89	The crisis created the memos. New Democracy created the crisis and delivered it to you. I agree with that, too. This is the phrase of Mr Tsipras in 2011 here when he was exercising parliamentary control over Mr Papandreou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u90	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u91	'I agree with it too' he said at the time, but he said then, but the majority of Parliament and the government are saying today. Ladies and gentlemen, we received in October 2009 a general deficit of 15.7% of GDP, i.e. EUR 36 billion, unprecedented. The markets were skeptical and, as long as the weeks passed, the funding cannons were closed. We have received a dramatic current account balance, more than -15% with a dominant negative position on this trade balance, about 11% of GDP, and certainly an unbearable public debt. We have received a recession, dramatic deficits, dramatically negative current account balance, a rapid downgrading month by month, of all rating houses, a global weakness of market lending, a huge public debt, a lack of support mechanisms from the European Union, which, as we know, were created at the end of March 2010. A country on the brink of bankruptcy, which came with strength in mid-May 2012 and which we have unfortunately prevented, is being placed on our own sides. We have fought, fought for years and devastated. Most parties and the various television stars, many of whom hold the positions of Ministers today and even seek consensus for five years, have hated the Greek people's minds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u92	Is that me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u93	I didn't mention to you, Mr. Quick. A hate that is being exploited and now in coarse ways, however, ladies and gentlemen, who are slowly devouring themselves, have ceased to be persuasive. They gave way to the legitimate wrath of the citizens who had fallen, because of the crisis, with the terrible argument that we from PASOK did this, we were responsible for it, and then New Democracy and those who tried for a while, such as LAOS and DIMAR. We were five years in crisis. Five consecutive years at universal party and personal costs and the leading concepts of this slander and of this equipment with hatred in the soul and heart of the Greek people we remember one - one and personally. We delivered to the next government a country with a positive figure in the current account, with a primary surplus for the second year, a debt cut of about EUR 160 billion, a public debt review decision after the end of the programme - that is, now if the elections had not taken place and what had been followed naturally - and anticipated growth of 3% for the years 2015 and 2015 and 2016, a forecast made by the European Central Bank, the markets and all the international institutions. We were also overcoming the crisis, and we were on the market, such as Cyprus, Portugal and Ireland. And the day-to-day market, not the markets, our market here, since the end of September, has understood it, by many citizens, by listening to people in the private economy, by professionals or traders that something is moving. I do not claim, ladies and gentlemen, that citizens have returned to prosperity, under no circumstances. I know very well and we know very well what is happening, but there was a first step. In the last quarter of 2014, 0.8% of development responded to everyday life. 3% and 3% in 2015-2016, forecasts by the European Central Bank I repeat, would have an impact on unemployment, on the operation of the Funds and on the public fund. It's not numbers, it's life, these labels. These have been interrupted, the facts are well known. He took over a new government that promised memorially what he said and pre-electionally, that is to say everything to everyone. And now she's fighting with herself. Because her problem is herself, not us. The opposition that we are doing to you is globalism, is arguments, not insults, and those that you have spoken of even for our national price. You show unprecedented incompetence and a lack of basic experience - the latter is forgiven but the first is not - by praising people's confidence week by week and letting the economy sink. We are returning to the recession, it is absolutely certain. The very limited but there is a reduction in unemployment. The exit of Greece from the euro or the Greek accident or an accident in the operation of the economy was restored. The President of PASOK was verified, Vangelis Venizelos, when electionally said that what was created in five years, could be destroyed in a few days. And that's exactly how it happens today. And the communication pretext that our independence was supposedly recovered and the other lies that took the form of trabukism, because they were accompanied by the argument - not only by government officials but also by MPs and members of the parties in the media - that for the first time the negotiation that has never taken place has begun because you said 'yes', this insult is returning. Ladies and gentlemen, because we did not grow up in the last rain and because we know most people here and because every day we meet people watching and the media, both Greek and foreign, and in general the course of public life, was forgotten in May 2010, when the government at that time, threatened by resignation if they didn't take back the proposal to draft EUR 580? If you have forgotten about them - which you have not forgotten - we will remind you of them every day in the functioning of the committee of inquiry. Has it been forgotten in September 2011 with the open conflict between the then Minister of Finance and the Troika? This has been a matter of discussion for weeks. Has the real and substantial victory forgotten - not the communal Arlumps - in the haircut of about 160 billion debts? Repeat: February 2012.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u94	Lie!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u95	She forgot that in the last phase, for many months, the negotiation was open and she did not close the programme, because there were five specific red lines, with many of which you agree with? And all that is forgotten and all that is silenced and all that no one can remember is doing at the end and we are putting it as a Communism, i.e. a majority, a proposal for a committee of inquiry, which wants to examine - because it does not know everything else - just a certain period of time, incidentally the time that has been running PASOK and then PASOK with partners and then the New Democracy with partners. Unfounded, again, conspiracy and another proposal: May 2010-January 2015 or October 2009-January 2015. An honest proposal - that is what we are putting forward - is to look at the whole course of the economy from the country's accession to the euro. There is a political criterion, there is, above all, a scientific criterion, and there is a political criterion, no matter what political perspective one sees. And to illuminate the data of the Greek economy from all sides. PASOK pointed out with his announcement a few days ago when you tabled this proposal for this committee of inquiry and the time of Mr Metropoulou's speech today verified this. You should read what Mr. Mitropoulos said in the first part of his speech. He said that there was a story set up here, which had two sides, those who came to safeguard their interests and torture the Greek people and to destroy the Greek people, the foreigners, and the people who in Greece here appeared as willing. You say this in a more elegant way in your proposal, and we have been told by Mr Mitropoulos from the Stepma this just now. Then - we told you that - the committee must carry out a full examination of things, not only of one party but also of the other party. And of course we need to see how the European Central Bank, ladies and gentlemen of the government thought, how the European Union thought, how the IMF thought, other major international organisations, many of whom appear to be very friendly and to see the feasibility of the assessment houses, other banks, other countries and so on. But all these institutions, both public and private, ladies and gentlemen, are represented through the natural persons who make up their leaderships. In other words, your thoughts and, above all, your rapporteur's thoughts today include being summoned in one way or another to give their opinion by Mr Triche, Mr Draghi, Mr Van Robée, Mr Barrozo, Mr Ren, Mr Dallara, Mr Strör - Khan, Mrs Lagard - will come along with Mr Varoufakis - and I only mention a few names instead of many people who should have them in mind. I think it would be a comedy debate if it were not tragic. You ask for the responsibilities of one side to be examined and leave the other side, but the other side is the whole planet. Ladies and gentlemen, now that you are asking - literally begging - liquidity, you ask for mercy from the European Central Bank, the IMF, they are now opening up a comico-tragic front and finally with a graphic sign. But I am coming back and closing, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you, Madam President, for our proposal. All period from entry into the euro until the last day of the work of this committee should be considered. We do not have sixty Members to table and vote on our own proposal. We would vote today on such a proposal, we would not break the course of work. We don't have this parliamentary power. That is why we end up tabling this proposal in a broad sense, which makes our own contribution to the Committee of Inquiry public.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u96	How did that happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u97	The vote will be negative. This text must not be voted on and perhaps you have the time - rhetorically I am speaking - to rethink it. We are therefore voting against your proposal. You're trying to cover up the truth. You compose an innocuous attack on false arguments aimed at our political extermination. You will not be able to do so, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, because the treachery of the way you think and operate will become a boomerang against you. You've already shown us that you don't respect but you're using the House. We warn you - to have cleared our accounts today - that we will not allow you to play games on our back. The Greek Parliament is the most important public step, and we have both the experience and the power to defend its prestige, the truth and the democratic party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u98	I would like to thank Mr Loverdos for responding to the President's suggestion of self-restriction, and he has broken the record of overcoming time. You spoke twenty-one minute and twenty-five seconds, more than all the previous ones. As I promised, I did not interrupt you, but you are all aware that this is at the expense of the next speakers. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I would ask colleagues from PASOK not to be alarmed. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs has asked for the floor on European issues, Mr Nikos Hountis. Minister, you have the floor and you are entitled 15 minutes. I would ask you to try to be at least within the time limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u99	Madam President, fourteen minutes the Deputy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u100	I'm at fourteen, Mr. Mitsotakis. Don't be afraid, I'll keep it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u101	You've got fourteen minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the first cycle of the rapporteurs of all the political groups in this House has been completed, I believe that the proposed proposal has already begun to act in our political thought. I do not retain the fact that the majority of the opposition parties said 'we will vote against it'. I believe that they have finally said "we will participate" and in some cases have tabled constructive proposals, such as the last of Mr Loverdou, that is, the Committee of Inquiry which is proposed to form, has an obligation to invite Mr Trichet...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u103	I didn't mention that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u104	I'll tell you, Mrs. Swollen. He can do that. Another what answer he's going to get. And to see that I do not say air cut off, a similar proposal was tabled in 2010 to the European Parliament, namely to set up a committee of inquiry, to examine issues of great statistics and memoirs. The response of the newly elected Commissioner Renn, the father of the memorials, was 'Mr Barozo'. Question two. If it is made on Greek territory, by decision of the Greek Parliament, are the Commissioners - those who knew, those who covered, those who would then listen to you, ladies and gentlemen, say they were to blame for all the Greek political forces - to submit oral and written? It says to me: 'I think they should come'. Written answer: ‘Not mandatory’. There is no, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, a law on the responsibility of the Commissioner. And that's one of the problems. Such proposals are constructive. Why? Because, ladies and gentlemen, it shows that this procedure does not comply with the purposes on which the various political forces might have documented their refusal. Conversely, from the debate so far, we have all seen that there is a need for answers. Another has questions on one issue, another has questions on the other. However, such procedures have not been initiated, because at times other political intentions did not put them forward. Mr. Loverdos was the last speaker. Let me refer to the other proposal. It says, not a committee of inquiry for the memorandum or for the period 2009 but a committee of inquiry since we entered the euro. A similar committee of inquiry has again been held in Parliament, Mr Loverdos. And you know what he's been up to? With the great swaps of Mr. Simitis and Mr. Stournara. And they were trying to figure it out - here you never put it, because you wouldn't be in the alliances you would have done - about what was going on with this thing. Because the bill will be opened. Is armaments diplomacy perhaps the political precedent for Greece entering the euro without meeting the Maastricht criteria, such as other countries, because it did not have 100%. These procedures appear to be still unanswered. But why is the proposal to become a committee of inquiry into the memorandum of this period? And why now? Because, ladies and gentlemen, whether we want it or not we want it, it is the only period our basis is common. Unless there's someone who says the memorandum was good. No one says so. It's a different matter. There is, therefore, a common basis so that we can discuss it. A number of arguments have been heard, such as: 'What political responsibilities are you looking for?' - and it is right - 'These political responsibilities are borne by the people'. The people have therefore given political responsibility to these forces that have implemented Memorandum policies and rewarded those that are antimony. So we don't have to go any further. I will then respond by saying that this is not just a search for such political responsibilities. The political responsibilities for the introduction and implementation of the memorandum, ladies and gentlemen, go beyond the current performance of responsibilities with the elections. Why? Because it seems that some other forces are still thinking memorially - I will explain what I mean - because there is an important responsibility that this Memorandum has gone through and it is a general phenomenon, because, with a Memorandum of Understanding, they are still saying, 'Do that or do that in the negotiations or has reclaimed'. Here too, they are not responsibilities and powers which were not established at the time, but now they say: 'Receive this logic in any case, because the European perspective will be destroyed'. A second argument is this: another committee of inquiry? We have forty-seven. What's he gonna do? This, of course, is by her to perverse. Maybe someone can get it out. But, in this case, these political forces that are strengthening and making this proposal - but from what they have seen and in essence all - want this committee to go well. We want some conclusions to be drawn, because it will be for the good of the country and it will be superstitious for the political system. Thirdly, there is the argument: why now be a committee of inquiry? We're in a difficult situation. You're negotiating. You're in need of consensus. I've already answered to some extent. Obviously, there is a need for the greatest possible convergence of the Greek political forces in order to make this tough negotiation, but the basis for consensus is being sought. We had this conversation. If there's a consensus, accept what we accepted before... - for disapproved and disapproved by the people - so that we don't go any further. You realise that this is not the case, it is not what will ultimately give us results. So, here, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot say now that it wants consensus. And if you understand the whole thing as a collapsor, you're saying that you're fine with consensus and collapsing. And for hoods like that, you've seized the handshakes. I would remind you that New Democracy has proposed a committee of inquiry and then stopped it because its policy has changed. Today, with the proposal put forward by the New Democracy, it attaches a text invoking my own responses, 2010, which I shall then invoke. Where have these unanswered questions been raised in the New Democracy report, namely, the issue of the deficit? How did the deficit rise in 2009? Because it is not an accidental situation, as I will try to explain. The Memorandum is not a continuity in capitalist policy. It's something different. It's something else. That's how things turn out. He's got an originality. There's something unprecedented about it. It has something very different in the citizen's consciousness and so on. So it's worth doing now, now that the right conclusions have to be drawn. Finally, there is the argument that time and the subject should be extended. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal made by the two groups, which I sign up to, does not seek the causes of the crisis, as is said. And if you're looking for the causes of the crisis, you obviously have to go back. We know the reasons. But the conversation will do well. It seeks, because the global and European crisis was expressed with so much intensity and so much depth in Greek reality. It plays a role because the memoranda, this type of loan contracts, this form of lending of the country and financing, has resulted in - so let us think about it - in a country that has the greatest impact on monumental policies. You don't want an answer? We want the answer. We do not want the easy answer he says and others had memoirs, Spain, Portugal and Ireland, but we did not get out." Is it the same thing, then, in a situation like this? Don't we want to get a more specific answer? All together, without necessarily giving cause to the handling of the first or second governments. Shouldn't we get an answer? This answer, ladies and gentlemen, must also be taken by the peoples of Europe, because the policy of the memoranda which was first introduced in Greece has been generalised. It has perpetuated European law. It creates major problems that we find before us either way. A number of responses should therefore be given. As far as political responsibilities are concerned, it is much wider. I'll give it up in an outline so I can get into the facts. There's a matter. For the first time, such a funding programme has been implemented. Is it only because of the weakness of the architecture of EMU and the euro, which did not have a mechanism for managing the crisis? Is it because they did not just want to exploit, even marginally, certain possibilities given by the Treaties, which, after having made use of them for other countries - and apologise for the report - such as the 122(2) for emergencies? Why wasn't that mechanism used? Second political responsibility in listing. Why International Monetary Fund? Who prepared this for the International Monetary Fund? What does the International Monetary Fund mean? What does the Eurozone International Monetary Fund mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u105	Institution!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u106	That's right, there's been an institution. What does his entrance mean in there? Not only at the institutional level, which has passed beyond the institutions - it has not been discussed in the European Parliament under Regulation No 218 - but also in the essence of the know-how that the International Monetary Fund has to bear. And it is a know-how, ladies and gentlemen, which has now passed European policies, so that it is described as a reform policy by the Members who are asking, 'Why do you not go ahead with the reforms'?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u107	And the OECD is good!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u108	Okay, I'll make it simpler, make it understandable. Mechanisms for monitoring and evaluating economies, because of EMU, because of neoliberalism, etc., were the European Union. The control and adjustment mechanisms against excessive deficit were in place. What did the IMF add and explosive the mixture of the memorandum? He added the expertise the IMF had in terms of internal devaluation, internal degradation, all these measures we are experiencing. Thus, the combination of fiscal adjustment, which the European Union is asking for much more now, together with the policies of control and degradation of Greek society, has brought this explosive mixture called a memorandum, with many disastrous consequences and which were, among other things, the occasion indeed the institutions of the European Union, behind the bad IMF, to demand things that are not in their role. Right, then, we must call on the European Central Bank because it was not on its part to enter economic and political extortion programmes against a country. And we need to call Mr. Triche, who said in 2009, "I don't buy garbage" and upload the spreads. Because I am talking about these issues. And what is the policy of the European Central Bank today? The effects have been very deep and important since Greece was introduced experimentally into the Memorandum, ladies and gentlemen. The political responsibilities are also identified in the political forces here and in the institutions of the European Union, which we must look for. I'm doing a parentheses. Because I have seen it, they have moved or initiated unfinished such procedures, examinations and audits. I say this for some people who think it is a disgrace to Europe. On the other hand, it is the other answer. A committee on the crisis has been set up in the European Parliament. She wasn't enough. A commission was set up for the memorials and the troika. There's been public hearings. Why? Not to reveal the truth or to correct politics, but to see how they would legalise counterfeiting against those who believe that the conditions and principles of the European Union are being respected. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, do not pity the Commission on the auditing of debt as something unprecedented on the one hand, as something arbitrary, as the activism of others. It has been incorporated into European law as an institutional process in order to be able to catch up with the objections which have been raised and which are deeper than the direct consequences of the memorandum. Why am I saying all this, ladies and gentlemen? Why, in my experience over the last five years in the European Parliament, when I - and not just myself - had the following questions: 'Why did the IMF come to the Eurozone and did we not talk about it here?' Answer: 'We were asked by the Greek Government and other governments.' Question: 'Why did the Greek Government ask?' Shouldn't an answer be given? I'm not putting up conspiracy. Why? Two. These measures, which are incorporated into the Memorandums, are incompatible with the Treaties, with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and other texts. These texts, not socialist and not unprecedented. Answer - I have the relevant materials - ladies and gentlemen: 'The Greek Government has asked for them. We did not ask for them.” Question 3. Why, with the measures you take with the Memorandum, is the Constitution being violated? Answer. It is not our fault - it was a response from the committee as a committee and not as part of the memorandum - that the Greek governments were to blame. I'll report one last thing to you so I don't bore you. Mr. Barozo said: “What is it to us? The Greek governments came here and accepted it all." Question: Is the truth so? I say it's not like that. He's in the middle. They imposed them, too. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must admit that in the texts we have also been pursuing specific class forces, demands and pressures on workers, who have been so long under current conditions and under the current monitoring of political dialogue, otherwise could not pass them. And the Memorandum facilitated these through putting one another's responsibilities. In two or three specific points, I will stand by so that I do not bore you. The first concerns the deficit. We have had the day after the October elections, ladies and gentlemen, all except, where appropriate, those of Mr Provoulou, that the country's deficit is one-digit, or is it not? Mr Provopoulou claims that he had told Mr Papandreou and Mr Karamanlis. What did we know? Suddenly, after 15 days, Mr Provopoulou comes out, after twenty days, Mr. Papaconstantinou officially states that the deficit is two-digit and various adjustments are made that came from 6% or 7% that we knew are going to 15%, 15.4%, 15.6%. Question to the Commission. Why? The response is given to the text of the New Republic of February 2010, answering a question, hospital debts all year round, the balance sheets of the ECHO. The economists and nurses at the Ministry of Finance know very well when and how on the basis of the European Statistical Rules there are balances between the ECIs, and the solidarity allowance they added and thus "inflated". How much did he get up? So - they say the analyses - so that Greece enters the IMF first before the virtuous Ireland and, as the Statute of the International Monetary Fund says, in order to mobilise the International Monetary Fund, the deficit must be at least 15% greater. Prove to me otherwise. I have made a statement in the committee and in the case-file established by Mr Pepponi and Mr Mousakiti. They are obviously included in the material to be examined by the committee. I'm not expanding any further. I told you about the IMF. On the issues included in the memorandum, I made a number of comments. Because I said I'd be consistent in time, I want to say that I think we're all gonna get out of this case. We will draw political conclusions, ladies and gentlemen, because if we do not do this redemption for the political system, it will go as a necessary condition for you to remain in the European Union this punishing logic and that does not do any good to anyone or to Europe. It will pass on to the Greek citizen's conscience that he is guilty, because stereotypes will follow him. It will pass because our consciences will be altered in relation to the defence of sovereignty, national and folk, and, ladies and gentlemen, whatever you do, you cannot do anything, because there are powerful mechanisms and will lose all chance of hope and optimism, especially from the new generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Minister Hood. A very small comment. From the process of searching for the truth that is the procedure of the committee of inquiry, people and societies are certainly won. We had another loss today. "He has left" the left-wing fighter and member of the Communist Party of Greece Maria Lule, of which the resistance and anti-digital activity were emblematic. By interpreting the feelings of this House, I express the condolences of the House to her family. It's a total loss for the Greek people. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, and then the Minister of State, Mr. Nicos Pappas, have called for the floor. Mr. Mitsotakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Allow me, Mr Ministers, to begin with a point of order. In the previous debates on the setting-up of a committee of inquiry, at least those which I have been working on over the last five years had spoken to three ministers and four ministers. I would therefore ask, in interpreting - I imagine - and the feelings of colleagues, not to abuse the ministerial presence, because it is to the detriment of the Members of Parliament and certainly to the detriment of the Members of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to Mr Hood. I do not think anyone can argue that Greece would actually benefit from a sober debate on the causes of the unprecedented crisis that hit our country, a debate which would also assess the choices made to tackle this crisis. The big question we have to answer is whether this debate can be held within the committee of inquiry, as SYRIZA proposes today. I fear that this debate cannot be held within the committee of inquiry, as you suggest. Mr Huntis has gone past, without much processing, a reality. The reality - and I say it in particular for young colleagues - is that, unfortunately, the House has extremely bitter experience from previous committees of inquiry. Unfortunately, nothing has come up with unanimously. As a general rule, the toxic political dialogue in recent years is repeated in Parliament and the committees of inquiry are turned - and this, unfortunately, is the experience - of yet another sterile party controversy victim and highlights the protagonists, those who are shouting the most, adopting the most extreme arguments. Many political careers have been built in recent years through such controversies. And I imagine you will all agree that such a committee of inquiry would not have added anything to the public debate at all. We are at a time when the country should, in fact, seek consent. I fear that the Committee of Inquiry, which you are proposing, will come to a split. And at a time when sobriety and self-criticism are required by all, a committee of inquiry, as you suggest, all it will do is maintain the myths of recent years. And instead of looking honestly into the mirror, I'm afraid we'll still look into the idol of those who are imaginably responsible. As a rule, it's always the fault of others, it's almost never our fault. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not need to reproduce these myths in recent years and we need to destroy them. The last thing we need is another public prosecutor's act of denouncing commemorative policies. We have been filled in this Chamber by various semi-trailers who end up with public prosecutors. And we need to look with courage and boldness ahead, learn from our mistakes and finally agree on the self-evident changes that have unfortunately been lost to the orchestra of the anti-monotic political speech. Ladies and gentlemen, there may be another solution, in addition to the committee of inquiry, which you are adopting today, with the proposal you have tabled. Perhaps we should work as a parliament, the solution of a Committee of Wise Men, which could be objectively and away from party controversy, to highlight unscrupulous aspects of the political choices that led to this crisis. Such proposals have been made and I am glad to see that the Prime Minister accepted the idea of a Committee of Wise Men. But how would such a committee function, at the same time as a committee of inquiry, which would reproduce the same political account? How are we finally going to give convincing answers not only because we have entered the memorandum but why still, five years later, are we striving to escape the size of interstate borrowing, which is, in fact, subordinate to and creates suffocating obligations? Such Sage Committees, ladies and gentlemen - and listen to it, I think you will find it interesting - have been created in other countries which have been bankrupt. One example is Iceland. We're forgetting her. It is the first country, which went bankrupt as a result of the banking crisis and the results of this Committee of Wise Men, were the basis for political and criminal responsibility, but they also played a more important role. They became tools of collective self-awareness and clearance and showed the way to avoid repeating the same mistakes. The question is. Would we really like such a Sage Committee? Because if we were to set up a committee of this kind, it is certain, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, that we would not only stand in the face of the events of the last five years. We would obviously explore the causes of the modern Greek tragedy. And we would obviously come to a clear conclusion. The memorials, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, were the medicine, it wasn't the disease. The recipe may not have been the right one but treatment will never yield if the correct diagnosis has not been obtained. This diagnosis has not yet been diagnosed with sobriety in our country. Some - and a number of Members - criticised us both in the public debate and in the social media, because we have been calling on our own proposal to start the work of the Committee of Inquiry since 1981. I wonder. When did the growth of deficits begin, social policy with borrowers, the abundance of the state by the "loans"? Even if we did not start in 1981, we could at least start from 2002 when the country entered the euro area. Only a bad faith would start this exercise from 2009 and not much earlier. The truth is, ladies and gentlemen, that the diagnosis of the country's suffering, for the reasons that led us to this crisis, has not yet been made an estate of the Greek people, because some people have not allowed it, because political routes have been built on the convenient myths of the anti-monotic propaganda. A lot of old totems have been demolished over the last few years. In their place, however, new, often made of old materials were placed. In recent years, we have also heard in this Chamber and in the public debate a number of terrible things. We heard that the Memorandum was a bay of the Americans to get the Aegean hydrocarbons for a rugged sloping. We heard that the solution to the debt was some shares in the Eastern banks, which no one bothered to cash out. An overriding society was ready to believe everything. Everything but the obvious. And that was that the previous model of the country went bankrupt under the burden of unprecedented lending, which was primarily directed to consumption, that we were more interested in having a good time today, rather than investing for tomorrow and that as a society as a whole, we sought to hunt individual wealth and not achieve collective prosperity. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the antimonetary struggle was the greatest fraud against the Greek people. It was and unfortunately still remains the best alibi to stay intact customer mechanisms, which it inherited and is currently managed by the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence. It is imperative that the myths be maintained and that nothing change at all. I fear that the committee of inquiry you are proposing serves precisely that purpose. A false segregation of society into memorial and antimony. Only the reality itself has overcome this false dilemma and, as much as you deny it, life itself has already left it behind. On January 25th, you won the election, the virtual reality that you have built beforehand is conflicting with the reality of the rest of the planet. Of course the second one prevails. Instead of accepting this truth, instead of moving forward, you are making examinations. Instead of finally running effectively, you are looking for those who are responsible today. The populism which has been cultivated in recent years for every problem has never been a solution, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA. He's always got a guilty man. He never speaks with evidence. He hates the real facts. After all, the Minister of Finance himself is interested in the great theories. He's not interested in the budget numbers. A lot of slogans, possibly some nice photography, heavy words, to hide the absence of politics! As I came here, I listened to the radio the song of Dionysi Savvopoulou about the angel who "has had no good news to say, better not tell us anyone." But sometimes you know, politicians and their jobs are to say unpleasant things. [[Noise in the Chamber]] You have actually seen in the past two months and you will find it even more intense in the next few weeks that there were ultimately no donors who voted for memorials and some patriots who unilaterally erased the shameful debt. And you signed the same extension. And you, with the same troika you speak. And you, the same conditions of the European acquis, you are forced - with a heavy heart, the truth is - to accept, but unfortunately you are still not ready to admit that. Unfortunately, unlike the Irish and the Portuguese, we still cannot find the necessary consensus in this House, even today, in order to leave behind the false dilemmas of the past, which have so divided the Greek society and on which so many political careers have been built. You know that - despite Mr Hood's attempt to reproduce the same rhetoric - that there is no separation today between memorandum and antimonemics. The distinction is between reforms with a national figure in consultation with Europe and unscrupulous bankruptcy and a return to the drachma. That is the real distinction. But will you tell your voters? Do you dare? How are you going to explain to your memorial client that all that you've said for so long has been a great lie? You're hoping, by making the exam, you can get some time. Only time works at your expense, but also at the expense of the country. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like two minutes, Madam President, I will not be late. We often talk in this Chamber about the accident that we want to save. The accident is already happening today when we are talking about the real economy. Revenue is lower, the objectives of the smaller surplus, which you may be able to negotiate, they are removed, the public has declared a full posture of payments, the market has dried up, the banks channel whatever liquidity they have to finance the defective state and the investors in the worst case are running, at best, to suspend all their investment projects. Through inertia you are applying the ultimate material policy, the one you want to avoid in the words. Never has there been such a great deal of damage in such a short time and the first time on the Left is rapidly turning nothing on its Left. I'm not saying that, your Minister says that. So let's finish sometime with this shadow theater. No committee of inquiry will be able to support it. At the end of the month - professedly yours, the Prime Minister himself - the money is over and reaching an agreement is an urgent need for the country. So leave the committees of inquiry for later. Leave her for June, when we hope that you can sign an agreement, which I fear is probably with a third memorandum, rather than something else. Then we will probably be able to discuss a more peaceful political climate. Others are the priorities of the country. No one is talking today about growth or jobs. Come and talk about it. Come on, let's talk about how we'll finally grow up on this pie and not share a pie that's constantly shrinking. Let us not give the floor to Parliament - and I shall end with that, Madam President - for another party 'rooting' and I am sorry that I am using such an extreme phrase, because unfortunately all the committees of inquiry have turned into it. We don't have to add one more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. I shall, of course, disagree with the last conclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u112	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u113	We have a deal for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u114	I think there have been committees of inquiry, such as the one for Siemens, which have produced very concrete results.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u115	What did you say about committees, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u116	Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Philly, I didn't give you the floor. Mr. Pappas had asked for the floor and I have announced him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u118	Excuse me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u119	Say the name to understand who you're talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u120	The speech has already been made - and I have already said it - by the Minister of State, Mr Papapas. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I was about to start my position by saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u122	I didn't hear you, Madam President. What did you say? You won't let her talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Tasula, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u124	I want to hear the President because he was interrupted by a turbulence.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Tasoula, the time you consume is the time of my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u126	I denounce the turbulence and urge her to say what she said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u127	Madam President, year after year, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u128	And after this short break, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I was ready to begin my position by saying that the proposal put forward by the New Democracy for a Committee of Inquiry into the economy from 1981 to today has been a relocation because it has been normalizing the whole period from 1981 to today. We did not have an incision, according to the new New Democracy account, when the memos were imposed. There's a continuum. This is according to the proposal, which is probably not the case, if I believe the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, who has defended it. The memorandum was not the mistake anymore, it's not what we found and we didn't know what to do with it. It's the medicine. It was the medicine that came to heal the failures, the systematic favor of certain interests and social strata in Greece, which, according to the Constitution, did not pay the taxes and the Memorandum, came this situation to heal it. Really, what we've been through is the healing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u130	The medicine has toxic properties!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u131	Yes, sir. So be careful with the pharmacist! Madam President, the exploration and return of responsibility for what led the Greek economy to moral and physical extermination is neither populism nor re-changing nor regularism, but it is the core of parliamentary democracy, the control of political power and the smooth restoration of the unprecedented injustice experienced by the majority of Greek society. I therefore think that any attempt to distort returns to its missionaries, who are really awkward, do not know which position they should take. And I think, Mr President and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that in Ethiopia no one has been convinced of what the argument is on which you are basing your refusal to set up this committee. Believe me, too, that many other than Athensis suspect something and somewhere goes your mind. However, I would like to tell you this: in Europe no longer speaks of a success story. Anyone referring to Greece is talking about its humanitarian crisis. And the setting up of this committee is coming to contribute to the painful process of searching for the causes of the disaster. Madam President, the memorandum has been an altar of rights and at the same time the purification of corruption, and that is why this investigation and the return of responsibilities must lead to genuine and secure tools for dismantling it, to make a decisive contribution to the introduction of rules for everyone. Here too, let me refer to two issues relating to my responsibilities. Firstly, the barbaric closure of ERT overnight and the persecution of two and a half thousand employees, in the pretext of the pathogens of the past, in dictating some who demanded redundancies in the wider public sector, is a blow to democracy and the public interest. It has, in fact, served private interests and strengthened the engagement. This will result in political and other responsibilities for those who have completed and finally abolished the ERT, which must employ the Greek Parliament and to examine overall the damage suffered by the Greek State by the closure of the ERT, as well as the compensation, the costs of the special management and others. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the draft law on ERT, the debate of which begins in the committee responsible tomorrow, is, in fact, the abolition of this action. This closure was the drunken amputation of citizens' information and the scandalous favour of certain interests, because at the same time as the Government closed the ERT, a new contract was signed in the ‘DIGEA’ with which the rights for digital frequencies were granted to the SST against a low price. The private broadcasters via DIGEA have shaped the digital TV framework on their own with a dominant and monopoly role, and in any case in the public interest, taking into account who benefits from the terms and exchanges relating to digital television. Secondly, the Memorandum was supposed to be a programme which was attempting to put budgets into order. However, there was a maintenance and extension of the twenty-fifth year almost illegal operation of television channels and the assignment of digital frequencies. So far, it has been due and no charges have been collected from television channels for the use of frequencies for 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014. The percentage is 2% per annum on their gross income. In these years of the Memorandum, since no ministerial decision has been taken to amend this percentage, as agreed by the television channels, nothing has been collected. In particular, some arguments that are used to tax and financial immunity have come to the table at the table of the debate that are unreserved. Let's get things straight. Firstly, there is no question of settling out at all. To n. 3023/2002 provides that television time to parties for the promotion of their advertising during the pre-election period is free of charge. The fee for using the frequency due to the public is quite another thing. As much fantasy and as appropriate to put in, one cannot give any other interpretation at all. The other pretext some use is that of stopping the use of analogue frequencies. What do they say? That, as we have passed on to digital broadcasting, there is no obligation, because the fee was for the use of analogue signals. Firstly, it is well known that the transition has not been completed. I myself in two months from the elections, and then I have received six questions from all of the political forces about not transmitting a digital signal to too many parts of the country. I think that they will ask at least Members who have tabled the relevant questions. But I will tell you that Mr Kedicoglou himself had replied in October 2012 that there are certain canal debts. Obviously nothing has been collected since then and the question is why. But I will also tell you this. I think that they are morally and politically unacceptable companies living with loans from banks that the Greek people have recapitalised to refuse to pay what the law provides for. Here, let me. I speak with absolute honesty in all the wings of this House. He wants clear words: Should they or should they not pay? We can't play here. The Greek people have suffered and no one can claim for tax immunity. I would like to listen with interest to the positions of all the parties. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the proposal for the Committee of Inquiry into the conditions under which we have been led to the deadlock in the memorandum is the implementation of our programme commitments and in no case is a diversion. Retraining - I would say - is the proposal from the New Democracy which, in passing, was tabled a few hours before the start of this debate. I would conclude by saying that once again, in a persuasive sense of those with various political pretexts, they are trying to show us - to justify their own actions - once again dangerously incompatible and, once again, unsuccessfully delivered to a supposedly new memorandum, the Greek people have the opportunity today, as at other times, to find out the government's determination in the struggle to restore the dignity of society, to implement the plan of productive reconstruction of the country in the opposite direction to the one which they have, unfortunately, inextricably, in some cases, indebtedness to the policy of the Memorandum. Above all, our aim is to restore a relationship of confidence between parliamentary representation and the citizen, a relationship of confidence which was so badly injured that Parliament needed bars to live and work.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u132	And now they're coming in right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u133	Now they're coming in free.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u134	It's really funny to compare the event before yesterday with your own course. It's really funny, and because people hear from us, you know he's made his own conclusions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u135	We thank the Minister and the exemplary attitude of self-restriction. Almost half a year you consumed by the one I am entitled to, Minister. Mr. Phil, you went up to Step and it would be inappropriate for me not to give you the floor. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr. Samaras has then asked for the floor. Here, sir, Friend, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the Committee of Inquiry today responds to a requirement of society that there should be a new moral political foundation for the country's progress. Any attempt to cover up what the people know, any attempt not to investigate the causes of a great social, economic and national disaster would result in further disrepute of the country's political life. I do not know through this moral denomination of politics who wins. But democracy does not win, in any way. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the memorandum is not a moment in a linear course in the post-political history of the place. It is not something that can pass from the history of the future to a footnote, a reference to a paragraph of history. It is an incision that tramples society, the economy, the nation, the history of post-war Greece. It is the point of reversal of generations from war and post-multiple. It is the beginning of a reverse course from what we called'small, but important, neo-Greek post-war miracle' to social rights, democracy, people's relations, confidence in the city and the future, because what was devastated by the Memorandum - we have seen it many times - was not only the economy but also the relationship of the citizen with politics, democracy itself. Therefore, we are not trying to degrade the uniqueness of the incision called the Memorandum. It would be wrong for this debate on the starting point of research to unfold within a labyrinth of politics and rivals or even more to be diffused in a thorny slogan of anti-capitalism. Something happened in 2009 in Greece and the world all. There's a coincidence of two crises. It blows up - we've experienced it - financial capitalism. There is a crisis internationally. In Greece there is a crisis of a model based on Greek domestic peculiarities, in this global capitalism that is under crisis through the pseudonym of the powerful Greece. There it seemed how much those words were fake, not even beautiful, than they proved. We therefore have a duty to start our research where there is a great deal of intersection, the memorandum, with what it implies before and afterward. I'll give you a parentheses. SYRIZA doesn't belong to the Inspectors. No, we're not Superintendents. We're not retrospective. SYRIZA is the backbone of a stream of patriotic, democratic, radical course that already, before the memorandum, warned of the consequences of a banking development model, a development model of social unjust, a development model that led to the crash that we experienced. I want to remind you of two things. Firstly, we talked about the game of the super armour race, not only about the massages but also about equipment that did not serve the needs of the necessary national armour. How much is that money in the public debt game? Look it up! Secondly, we objected to the chimera of the national idea of the Olympic Games. How much did that thing get up? What's the cost? Thirdly, we did not hide our words about the customer state and the complexity. We know very well where the money from the European Union has come from for projects in Greece and how much they have been paid for in hatreds and all the other things we know. It's clear. I would also remind him of a question by the then President of the coalition, Mr Constantopoulos, to the Prime Minister at the time, Mr Simitis, who said to him: 'Now that the country is going up with a growth of 4.5%, even with imported money from the European Union, but we have 4.5% growth, what measures are you taking to reduce the debt?', which had already fallen very high, to 95% of GDP. "What measures are you taking? When are you going to take steps? When the growth rate decreases?’ So there was no honest answer to the simple question. And we arrived at what we later lived in the humiliation - I repeat - of the notorious powerful Greece. It is clear that what we have lived since 2009 is not virginity. We warned about this course before and after. More importantly - because we do not belong to the Responsibility - we have already said, since 2009, that there can be another way to deal with the crisis, that it is not a one-way memorandum, that there is not a one-way path to caging in a hard, neoliberal model of internal devaluation, the sale of public property, the degradation of social rights, the dismantling of incomes, the collapse of the national product. It wasn't a one-way road. It wasn't the fate of the life we've lived in. It was a political option, because the debt that was - supposedly - the backbone of the Memorandum Policy proved to be a vehicle, a pretext for imposing on Greece all that we lived after. I'll say something else. In 2010 the government did not ask for the self-evident, that is to say, to have a cut in public debt. It did not ask for it, even though it was even discussed at the International Monetary Fund meeting, as you know. The Minutes have been published since then. Why didn't he ask? It did not ask for it because there was a choice from the outside, which was respected and from the inside, to rescue the large European banks. 80% of the public debt in 2010 belonged to the major European banks. Since then, until the notorious PSI has changed this relationship and the debt of private banks has been transformed into public debt, debt to the European Union and other states. And it is not for us to forget the question addressed by the current President of the Republic, Mr Pavlopoulou, and was answered by Mr Staikora. Mr Staikora's answer at that time proved that there was exactly this migration from bank debt to public European debt. So some people saved money. And in this act - I do not want to say to the conspiracy - it seems that they have contributed - from ignorance or fraud - powers through Greece to rescue European banks and to load the Greek people with an important debt, a debt which, in other words, can also be shown to be disgraceful. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled the proposal for the Committee of Inquiry because we believe that this is a mandate from the Greek people. We are not looking at the past, but we want to avoid the same mistakes in future, to avoid the blindness of choices of a one-way road leading to increased social inequalities and the dissolution of the country. We know that this process is not easy because different truths conflict in the search for truth. All right! However, I would like to say that this is a process which largely follows a European direction. The Committee on Budgetary Control meets these days. I would like to say that this committee is being set up in a European regulation of May 2013, which stresses: 'A Member State - which has become the subject of a macroeconomic adjustment programme - says for the memorandum - is carrying out a complete audit of its public finances, in order specifically to assess the causes of excessive debt levels, and to identify any possible irregularities'. So the Audit Committee is a procedure that helps the Committee of Inquiry into the House. And accept that the proposal tabled by Mrs Bakoyannis for the Committee on Wise Experts is also a process that can be exploited in the search for the truth. We do not have the monopoly of truth, nor do we want to make the subject of exploring painful truths an object of confrontation between the political parties. However, we stress that it is not possible to do any research in the name of a misconception of consensus, which is, in fact, equivalent to a hood and cover-up. On the cover, namely the lack of a new political morality, a new course for the nation and the country cannot be established. And I'm ending up with this. As far as the proposal that I heard on the subject of EMU 2002 is concerned, I believe it is a reality, one truth. Indeed, those who undertook to lead the country to the memorandum and then implement the memorandum are a political system and a similar technology structure in the public sector, as well as interests in many corruption and interlocutory, which gained in the course of the Memorandum from the falsely powerful Greece and wanted to impose terms in the course of the memorandum. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. They are the ones who have power today. Because SYRIZA may have the government with the popular mandate but does not have the authority. This is, therefore, a serious issue which has to do with the people's mandate and with the requirement of the citizen, of society to implement a different policy, of the citizen seeing in everyday life other people and not the same structures as about the same political behaviour. Of course, there is the question of negotiation, which has created several suspensions. However, we say again that the debate on the memorandum is not over, it is now beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u137	We thank Mr Philly and why he continued with Mr Pappas' good example of keeping time. The floor has been requested by the Chief of Officerial Response, Mr. Antonis Samaras. Here, Mr President, you have the floor for twenty minutes with tolerance, as always.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u138	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Government today did not invite us to discuss the committee of inquiry, just as a week ago it had not invited us to inform us about the course of the negotiations, which it did not say anything about. And in one case, he doesn't want a consensus. I'm sorry, but he didn't come here to look for the truth. Enemies are building again. Why? Because it is trying to cover up the full expectation of the Greek people, while the economy has dried out of liquidity, while the public has declared a stop to payments, while the critical dates pass after each other without disbursement and we have all entered into a weekly stress, while public suppliers are not being paid, while the responsible Minister of Civil Protection warns against 'the left of the region', while others in SYRIZA beat him and others from the government are supporting him. At this time, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is seeking the conflict. And your Treasury Minister goes to Washington, Prime Minister, nowadays and Easter. Why? To defer the IMF dose payment? To soften the IMF's attitude in Brussels, as you spread here? No, to give assurances that the country will continue to pay its instalments and that the troika's talks will continue, which you had pushed out so many times that you had lost control. Lies again. But they are now expensive in the place and are almost on the same day. I would therefore like to remind you that the people have not voted for any of these. He voted for you to stay in the euro if you can and on better terms, not to collide with partners or to cause an accident at the place. You were just telling us we were in danger. Now, however, all this is dominating the international press's headlines and, as everything points to, at least half the Greeks are indirectly afraid of them. And instead of having fun with these concerns, instead of using whatever help we have, which last time I talked about the EUR 1.9 billion of the SNP was mocked by your parliamentary group, you are looking for conflicts. Are we in danger now? Your executives prescribe a credit event in a few days. Take a remembrance of your Ministers' statements. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Your executives are talking about a dilemma if salaries and pensions, or loans or interest are paid. And officials of your own government are denouncing his "Left of nothing". In fact, how did we get within two and a half months of his celebrations 'for the first time on the left', in complaints about his 'left nothing'? And how not to get worse than the 'left of nothing' when your own Member went and offered - if possible! - support for Paul Bakoyannis' killer? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The highest security prisons that exist everywhere in the world, do you abolish them? My colleagues in the committee have said that this morning. And, of course, when we hear some of SYRIZA's proposals "let the hood be allowed" and your Minister's views that "in Skouria we may mourn victims", then, Prime Minister, it is clear that you have lost control. So you ask for this construction of enemies everywhere. And you did - you were supposed to be - proud to be negotiating so proud that the notorious agreement of 20 February has not yet been put to the vote in Parliament. And how not to fear your parliamentary group when you extended the loan contract that explicitly refers to the memorandum. I am tabling this item, to see what paragraph 7 says from the preamble to the agreement you signed the extension. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As the English law you complained about contains the Luxembourg arbitration that you told us it was an act of treason. And please take this to see exactly what has been signed. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] You said you abolished the evaluations too. Unfortunately for you your Minister of Finance expressly mentions in the recent list he sent to the Eurogroup "the latest evaluation of the current Memorandum agreement". Here is the Minutes sent by Mr Varoufakis. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You launched the infamous Committee on Debt Accounting, "Committee on Truth" and you did not invite the New Democracy or the other opposition parties either. What attitude of a one-party state is that? Why? Do you know that on February 20th you signed that you would respect the country's credit obligations in full? Take a look at what you have already signed Greek and English. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] After all, Mr Varoufakis confirmed it from Washington today at dawn. You are now running for a financial breath. But all this will not help you either get through the country's financial gap either now or close the new agreement to complete the new memorandum, in which you are driving the country, avoid. You're fighting to win a few weeks, a few months. However, this time that you are earning is a waste of time for the country, whose testimony continues from the suffocation of liquidity, from the paralysis of the market, from the bleeding of deposits, from the agony of people and the account is constantly rising. And how much do you think that Greek society can withstand this anxiety about tomorrow? So do as many committees of inquiry as you like. None of us touch us. But, as you go, you will know that a new committee of inquiry will indeed need to get out of the memorial that you have cancelled, for the credit event that you bring closer, and we hope that it will not happen for the good of the place, and for the new memorandum, as you say, to which you lead us. We're trying to save the country, we're not dealing with you. But remember who's digging each other's pit can be found himself in it. Ladies and gentlemen, as previous speakers have explained, we will not vote for this proposal for a committee of inquiry. We submitted an updated proposal for a committee of inquiry that we had tabled five years ago. We will not vote on the current government proposal for three reasons. Firstly, because the rapporteur's report does not allow us to vote on it. It just sets up an indictment against the previous government, and even when you are in nightmareal deadlocks. Secondly, because it has absolutely nothing to do with the proposal that we have tabled. And thirdly, why did you choose, Prime Minister, at the worst time. We don't know what dawns tomorrow in the country in a few days, in a few weeks. You, Mr Tsipras, have sent a letter out and described the terrible position in which the place has arrived and at the same time have found you to set up committees of inquiry. "Our houses, which are indebted to you, do not." While our house is burning, you sing. That's what the Greek citizen will tell us and he'll be right. That is why we are proposing not only a committee of inquiry, if you like, on another basis, but we are proposing to set up this committee of inquiry after a new agreement has been reached in two or three months. You do not have the right while homeland is struggling and must remain united by you, with this examination, to act split. So, even if it is, but after the new agreement. Because if there is no new agreement, and the country is in bankruptcy, then you know another committee, an investigation committee this time, Mr. Tsipras, about who's throwing the country on the rocks. We understand. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But let's start over. The explanatory statement of your proposal is a propaganda. He says the previous government's policy has failed. But you yourself have signed that the previous government has achieved a remarkable adjustment. Did you forget? This is how the 20 February text bearing your signature and the government and the signatures of eighteen other governments begins. And if you like, the Eurogroup Statement on Greece says “remarkable adjustment”. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You already know that this government, our government, had done a job. After all, Mr Varoufakis reiterates this in his letters to the Eurogroup before 20 February, that Greece also succeeded in the financial adjustment - please take the relevant passage to study it - and in recovery, which for the first time was admitted in public at the time. Please take this very much for recovery, which Mr Varoufakis has achieved during the previous government. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy, Mr Antonis Samaras, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Your explanatory statement also states that it was supposedly weakened in the days of the previous government - it says - democracy. Where did you see her? In Mr Panoussis' article last Thursday - I do not know if you read it - there you will see what it means to really weaken democracy on his left. Is it a democracy to condemn your people as fascist that they do not like and exult it as vulgar? Here's their spirit. These are not my words, they are your Minister's words. It is clear to everyone, Mr Tsipras, that you have tabled the proposal for an examination on that basis, so that we do not vote on it. If you want to vote, let us withdraw the report now. But you're not interested in any committee of inquiry. Your only concern is to denounce the previous government all the time. You want to condemn the previous ones and let them succeed as your ministers say. But within two months, you're tearing everything down. On the days of our own government there was no grief in the world if wages and pensions will be paid at the end of each month, nor will the country go bankrupt in a few days. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] And that's why you insist on denouncing us, because you're getting more and more bankrupt. Our proposal for a committee of inquiry goes back to 1981, because then the country had little debt, and then, as long as the country's debt was raised, every government was committed to the obligations imposed by the previous governments. Every government as soon as it took over had to pay the brokens of the previous governments. And this is particularly evident in the period 2004-2009, when over 90% of the deficits created at the time were due to expenditure that had been decided in previous years. The country paid interest on debt beforehand, paid armaments that had been ordered beforehand, paid debts to the funds beforehand. That is what we need to see, and that is what we have proposed. We are returning this proposal today, but it has been updated to date, that is to say, to look at it all. It was not the Memorandum that brought the crisis, it was the crisis that brought the memorials, the country's overcompensation crisis, the crisis of the productive model, the deindustrialisation of the economy. So let's see everything from the beginning, see the reasons that brought us to the crisis, in detail, and see the manipulations that put us in the Memorandum after 2009, exhaustingly. We, as you know, did not sign it or vote on it. We voted for the second memorandum before our government took over, while we signed and voted for its two amendments, one for a redemption of debts, when they were cut over on a night of 20 billion from the Greek debt. We then cut 20 billion debts without drum impacts. You were feeding haircuts and now you're trying to succeed - it says - parametric changes in debt, and of course it's the only way we had achieved in November 2012. And we signed after the other amendment to the memorandum. We signed it and voted on it last December, but with a view to moving to a credit line, to the ECCL, that is to say to exit the Memorandum. And I remind you that 10 April, a year ago, we had gone out on the market, 3 billion dollars we had taken. The offer was over 20 billion. The interest rate was 4,75. Today there is not a single euro offer and the interest rate do you know where he's gone? But you also signed the next amendment, the four-month extension of the memorandum in February, the one you did not dare bring to the vote here. The investigation, therefore, should be extended, Prime Minister, and in the period of your own governance, not half the talk. Let's talk about it all and talk about your own mistakes, which you stopped the exit course from the memorandum last December, feeding "rock-rollers" in Thessaloniki. Now, of course, you've forgotten about Thessaloniki. You drag the country into early elections and eventually drive Greece either in a fatal accident, in a new memorandum, or in both. And your responsibilities will be discussed, you will not avoid it. We are asking today for one thing: At last, rule. Forget the easy escape with new elections or referendums implied by some of your people. These are not easy things for you either, but they are surely harmful to the country. Just rule because so far you are not ruling. Moving as if you're still opposition, to hide your inability as government. We will not vote for your committee of inquiry, but we will be present, we will participate in discussions. You are preparing an indictment for those who held the country up, for those who held the country inside the euro, who remember it will end up indictment for those who play with the country's exit from the euro. You are accused of having received the country with a deficit of 9.5% and in two and a half years we delivered it with surpluses. We have received Greece with 7% recession and we have handed it over - in the words of your Minister, the financial officer - with recovery. We have received the country deep within the memorials and we have reached it one step before it finally came out of the memoranda, with the agreement on the next day, with a credit line, i.e. with the exit on the markets. And you will finally apologise for having received the country in recovery and in two and a half months you have reinstated it in uncertainty, asphyxiation and the memoirs. But if you don't want a consensus, you will continue the conflict. That's what you think is best for you. Believe me, it doesn't suit you, Mr. Tsipras. If you don't change, he'll be back at your expense. Our party - you know - guarantees the European course of the country. We want the country to be saved, even at the last minute, but with what you do, you do not make it difficult for us. You are burdened with your position, and unfortunately the account for the country is constantly rising, Mr Tsipras, every day.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Chief of Officer County. The President has asked for the floor, Mr Alexis Tsipras. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Samaras made sure that he repeated part of everything he said last week in the debate that I had caused, in order to inform the House. But today, he repeated the same rhetoric, that there are only two versions for the country or the memorandum or the disaster. You will remember that I told you last week that you are in strategic confusion. You're accusing us in half the week of taking the country to the rocks, to the destruction and the other half that we've signed a memorandum. These can't keep up. So since you have reiterated that only these two can exist as a prospect for the country and the people, today you have made a revelation. Until now we have had the feeling that you are persevering at the corner with a view to the government’s and country’s failure, if you are justified. Today you have revealed to us, over and over and over and over and over, that not only are you neglecting the possible failure, but you are threatening us in advance that this failure will come and bring - it says - and an interrogation committee, to a government that has just taken two months - just two months! - the governance of the place, a place of loader not with the sacrifices of the Greek people, but loaded with your own choices, debts and empty funds, social dismantling. You blame us for taking over just two months ago that you have prepared the committees of inquiry! And then you talk about consensus. You want - it says - to help us get the money from the European Central Bank and from the SMPs, that is - what? - the profits of the other banks that belong to us, the ones that belong to Greece! And you tell us that this is what will help us, you who are waiting for us to be set up by committees of inquiry, not inquiries. You have revealed yourself, Mr Samaras, but you have not properly calculated things, because the country has a government that is openly and courageously negotiating, with a high head, proudly and has the great support of the great majority of the Greek people, Mr Samaras, who, instead of reducing this support, as measured by the public opinion, is increasing despite the fact that the days are going through. That's your big problem. The big problem with you is that you have a government that tells the truth, which speaks clearly, which negotiates with courage and which aims to get the Greek people and the country out of the mud. Greece, therefore, Mr Samaras, is not a state of subordinate and subordinate. Greece has lost much of its economic power over the last four and a half years, but very soon you will also see that it is a sovereign and calculated country, a country which has, despite the difficulties it has experienced over the past five years, a strong geopolitical dynamic. And it is a sovereign country, which cannot play partners and lenders. You will see that, too, the partners and lenders will see. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, after five years of parliamentary silence on the major issues that caused the monumental disaster, we are now starting a process to answer questions that concern the Greek people. These are questions relating to the period during which the country was subject to the memorandum, after the signature of the first loan contract, but also questions relating to what was followed by the first memorandum. The results of these policies are of course known to all of us: Explosion of public debt, which was supposed to be the main reason why we drove to the memorials. It was about 124% when we entered May 2010, and it's 175% today. Exploiting unemployment at around 27% and 60% for young people. A dramatic decline in wages and pensions resulting in medium and underprivileged social strata losing over 50% of their income. Hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises. Hundreds of thousands of young people and young people forced to emigrate abroad, depriving our country and the economy of the most important scientific potential of high qualifications and thereby undermining the prospects for economic recovery themselves. And, of course, the collapse of the social state, health and welfare services, education services. These were all the consequences of a certain policy, of the political austerity and of the internal devaluation imposed by the memoranda - supposedly - to regain the country's competitiveness, but a recovery of competitiveness that never came. You know, I don't want to stay in the critique of this program. It is a given of both political and economic failure. Life itself considered this to be the case by the citizens, who, on 25 January, decided to give an order for a radical shift, despite the climate of risk, which you had also created. In that sense, I would like to admit before you that the political responsibilities have already been attributed by the Greek people themselves, by their verdict. But the need now to cover the proposal for a committee of inquiry is to shed light on the dark aspects of this five-year period. And that, you know, is not only a need for the credibility of our political system, but also a people's check. And this is not the discovery of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, who are presently tabling this proposal. May I remind you that Mr Samaras himself, who, before the 2012 elections, had committed himself to a single committee of inquiry on the memorandum of inquiry, why did he then proceed to this commitment? Why did she forget that commitment, however, once it took over the Prime Minister, the government of the country? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be clear and specific, because these are not issues with which one can play. This is where the credibility of the political system is judged. It is judged, if you will, that what I call a restoration to the relationship between citizens and institutions, which has been further broken down over the last five years, and there is reason for that. Do you know what the widespread sense of citizens is of what they are at times playing in this Chamber and are related to the occasionally exploring and rendering responsibility for political persons? If you ask the President of Parliament, she will tell you that she has found in her office, once she has taken over, over a hundred and fifty records of documents which come to Parliament without delay, because they are confronted with the responsibilities of political persons. So the widespread impression in Greek society is that the political system has surrounded itself with a cloak of protection and immunity. Because a ordinary citizen is treated with other measures and other weightings from the law and from the provisions of the Constitution itself - unfortunately, I am saying, and some responsibility for this is here today - than a Minister. Even worse, the widespread feeling is that among the political forces there is collusion so that many times one can cover one another in order to serve the special interests of a caste of politicians and businessmen at the expense of the public interest. I want to be clean. I do not claim that this feeling is necessarily correct and true, at least in all cases. We must, however, take it into account and it is precisely this general climate of suspicion that the political system, Parliament, itself, must reverse. And in order to reverse this climate, in order for citizens to regain their confidence in democracy, we must give answers, simple, clear and conspiracyless, beyond conspiracy and without the intention of criminalising political positions and political decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pretext that politically and ideologically the current government is on the other side of the memorial choices of the Memorandum Governments. It is, if you wish, against the neoliberal ideas that the memorandum has brought with it, according to which the country would soon recover its competitiveness if it went ahead with this unprecedented dismantling of the labour market. It is on the opposite side of the opinion that we would face the growth of public debt by selling out public property or that we would make our economy reinitiate, if we were to reduce labour costs further, if the social state let it collapse, because - allegedly - the social state is a counterincentive to the development of private initiative. This is the ideological core hidden in the memorandum. There was before the memorandum in points of view. We disagree. But the opinions are respected. In other words, I would like to assure you that we are not asking for a committee of inquiry in order to criminalise these perceptions, these opinions, which we have been confronting them for years. A committee of inquiry is not set up to judge political choices or perceptions with which we disagree. I would like to repeat that political perceptions are judged in the political arena, in the ideological and social conflicts and in the final judge can be no more than the people themselves. The Committee of Inquiry, however, needs to be set up to investigate whether or not a bad, obsessive or even ideological choice has ultimately been made with other non-political motives. That's what we have to investigate. You know, this is, after all, asking for our people to know when we are talking about having a huge question about the five-year period. And that is what we need to give clear and clear answers not to us here, but to the Greek people, and not to show a mood of reunification, but because that is the clear request and that is our debt to a people who have suffered for the past five years and have made sacrifices appalling. Of course, at the same time as making sacrifices, he was seeing many others stay out of these sacrifices. The middle class was dissolved in our country. Low incomes collapsed. Some people, however, caught up and made their money abroad. This is the sense of injustice felt by the great majority of the Greek people. There are many points that need to be clarified. There are a lot of things that need to be checked. I do not want to go into many details and I do not want to pre-empt the committee's findings, I think I need to remind you of some of these details, some of these questions. Firstly, the process of revision of the 2009 deficit, which took place in winter 2010 by the new PASOK government at the time, needs to be examined in detail and in detail. Why did the government proceed to this review? What measurement methodology was followed? Who and why did he make this decision, which in the end proved to be disastrous for follow-up? You asked the same thing then, Mr. Samaras. You forgot about them and not only did you forget them, but now you have told us the other theory that it did not bring the Memorandum of Crisis, but the crisis brought the memorandum, that is, the facts of the New Democracy Government, that is, Mr Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u141	That's not a theory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u142	That's what you mean. These things brought in the Memorandum. Say it clearly, Mr. Samaras. Why don't you say it? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Also, explanations should be given for the Bank of Greece's decision to proceed, a few days before the country enters the memorandum, to increasing the time for the settlement of Greek bonds from the three in ten days. I remember sitting in those chairs up there. I was the leader of a party with a small percentage of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u143	And you're going back there!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u144	Well, who's going to go lower seems. Look at the measurements. Look at the polls. Get out and walk to the cafes, the squares, the market. You'll see who'll have the luck of some others who sat in front and went back. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But listen to me with a little attention, please, and don't interrupt me. So I remember that at the time you had tabled a timely question to the House on this issue, Mr Samaras, and you did not receive adequate answers at that time by the Prime Minister. Here is another decision that reasonably raises questions and for which no adequate answers have been given, not even to Mrs Vasso Papandreou, who was then a Member of the Co-Police, who raised the matter with her question to the relevant Minister of Finance. I'm telling you specific things, Mr. Samaras, I'm not speaking in general. Should they or should they not be answered, investigated? They must answer or not the questions related to the change of the Memorandum Guard in November 2011, that terrible November 2011, to finally find out what was distributed to the Cannes, where Mr Samaras traveled an antimony and from which he returned a fervent supporter of the Memorandum.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u145	It wasn't me in Cannes!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u146	And Mr Venizelos traveled Deputy Prime Minister Papandreou and returned Deputy Prime Minister Samaras - no, rather Vice-President of the Government Papademos, but always Vice-President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u147	What's he saying now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u148	I wasn't at Cannes. I've never been to my Cannes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u149	It's a cause, Mr. Samara. I know you haven't been to Cannes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u150	Now you've heard, you didn't know!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u151	But at the same time I know that you were one of those behind the scenes at that terrible meeting. Yes, because after that, as soon as the Prime Minister returned, you were one of the behind-the-scenes protagonists who led to the government of Papademos, in other words - to what? - to a government that had not taken a people's order to form and - be careful! - regardless of our disagreements with the Papandreou government at that time, we need to know, the Greek people need to know how and through what procedures the Greek Prime Minister has been overturned for the first time after thirty-seven years of Parliamentary democracy through behind-the-scenes procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u152	Examination.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u153	I'm saying this. [[Noise - Protests from the ward of PASOK]] Do not unleash and worry. I'm saying this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u154	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u155	Madam President, your protection, because the blood has turned on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u156	Everyone's with you. Look around you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u157	I'm saying this, ladies and gentlemen,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u158	PASOK MPs not to shout.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u159	Something happened to PASOK!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u160	The Prime Minister will not provoke the story!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u161	It's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u162	I say these, ladies and gentlemen, because they are not just a lesson or a matter of curiosity for the modern political history of the country. I am saying this because I see Mr Samaras today who will probably know something we do not know - but he will tell us it publicly to learn it - dreams of a similar and now and without even causing it, he is rushing to an international media to say that he is willing to enter a universal government. When? Two months after the election, two months after the popular verdict gave a clear result and a purely parliamentary majority. Did anyone ever ask you to join a universal government, Mr. Samaras, these days and I didn't know that? Did anyone ask you? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Did anyone ask you for this or did you nostalgic the Cannes period? If you nostalked the period of the Cannes, sit there in Antipopulation, get used to it, because you will be staying for many years. In Greece coups ended with the palace. It's over and out. Don't wait unjustly. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, the list of questions, ladies and gentlemen, does not end there. The Greek Parliament must examine, impartially and objectively, exactly what happened with this famous PSI, that is, the haircut of the Greek government's bonds that created irreversible damage to the insurance funds of the country. Really, ladies and gentlemen, what did the PSI achieve? [[Noise in the Chamber]] Do you want my opinion? You will be able to say yours, but I see you very concerned and I do not understand why. Let me finish and you'll say your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u163	We're not worried.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u164	So what did the PSI, ladies and gentlemen, succeed? What it achieved, apart from destroying the insurance funds, was to extinguish the German and French banks from the Greek bonds and load them on the back of the Greek insurance funds, hospitals and university institutions. Why don't we look into this? Why? What were the priorities at that time, on what grounds, what political goal? Unless we don't have to talk about this. Do we not also need to discuss, ladies and gentlemen, the questions that arise over the next few periods, such as the question of the restructuring of the Greek banking system that was subsequently made in the next period? Doesn't he have unanswered questions and questions? What was, in fact, the criteria on which the current systemic banks were judged eligible for recapitalisation, while, for example, a public bank, the Agricultural Fund, was found to be unreserved? Was the sizes and balances of the Agricultural Bank worse than the other existing systemic banks? Not at all. Why then was the agricultural sector separated into 'good' and 'bad' and the first and liquidated of the second and a bank that was on the brink of the collapse became dominant, and the CAP today is, to remember, a case from the distant past and 'explaining them to weep'? Why? Answers need to be given. The Greek people expect these answers. You know, without a reunification, we have taken this popular mandate, that is to say, to investigate these answers. Also, the second recapitalisation of the banks, which was later made, also has unanswered questions and questions, in relation to the choices made. I would remind you that the recapitalisation costs of the Greek State were the shares acquired by the Financial Stability Fund that could only be sold at a price equal to at least the purchase price, so that there would also be a corresponding reduction in the public debt. This requirement was not met and legislative intervention was necessary in order not to comply with this condition. The result was the bank shares of the Financial Stability Fund to be sold against a lenten billboard, with immediate losses by the Greek State and at the same time a public debt burden. Indeed, because of this practice, the Greek State lost huge percentages of its participation in the banks' share capital, at minimal cost for private investors, but with very great damage to the Greek State. It hasn't been many years. We remember them! We want to shoot at all this. This practice, ladies and gentlemen, you know, has a name in the international financial system. It is called dilution and its legitimacy is more than doubtful in this case. Should we not ask for an ex post response to all of this? Is that what you're asking? Not to ask for answers you ask, not to investigate - the parent! - because the political responsibilities were attributed on 25 January. [[Laughers in the Chamber]] Are you laughing? He's laughing better, though, but whoever's laughing last.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u165	That's true!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u166	It's like it wasn't all enough. There's one. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] In fact, you have so much troubled this debt inquiry committee, which I hear some have also filed a letter to the President of the Republic because it says it has been deceived! If that's possible! Such unscrupulous behavior towards the state ruler, who participated with his authority and emphasis on a process...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u167	Mercy! That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u168	I see that today you are not in the mood to listen to your interlocutors. And, you know, democracy means words and words. You will have the opportunity to speak with due diligence in time and none of the majority Members present will speak to you and will not interrupt you. I see you have a concern.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u169	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u170	But concern is rather a bad omen. It betrays panic. So I was saying, ladies and gentlemen, that in recent years, in the years of the memorandum, political choices have been made in this country. Everyone judges these political choices. Nobody wants to criminalize them. In addition, however, political choices have been made, resulting in the damage of the Greek public. Don't you want to go through all this? And of course, as if not all of this were enough, there is also the bill of guilt of previous governments for most of the above. What exactly? But for the provisions that have been passed in this House - several times with a marginal majority - which, in any case, aim to share right and left immunitys and exemption from the civil and criminal responsibilities of those responsible for implementing these difficult choices. This, in our view, was the most important confession of guilt. I am, of course, talking about the immunity that has been legislated in the House, the administrative boards of Memorandum Institutions, the Financial Stability Fund, including the TSE, for the immunities on the Legal Council of State, the executives of the Bank of Greece and others. And I ask you well: why, in truth, did these provisions need to be raised, if there were no issues and it was all about political choices, which we do not judge, we do not judge them and we do not criminalise them, of course? Why pass these immunity provisions if everything was done under the law? Ladies and gentlemen, this and much more, in our view, must be the subject of the committee of inquiry, so that the Greek people can get the answers we owe them, so that they can investigate whether they are merely political decision-making issues or if other interests are hidden behind political decisions, other motives are hidden. Allow me, by the way, to comment here on the proposal put forward today by the New Democracy, which is rather trying to blur water, rather than help restore confidence in the political system and democracy, a proposal that was tabled just two hours before the planned debate on the establishment of a committee of inquiry, which was tabled by the government majority. And, of course, every Greek citizen's legitimate question is this: since you so much wanted to investigate why we have reached this point and why we have been involved in the investigation from 1981 until today and since you have been government for two and a half years and had the parliamentary majority, why did you not bring this proposal here to the vote and to start the investigation into this matter within this committee of inquiry? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] All your moves are hypocritical. The reason you have brought this proposal here today is to blur the waters. Because it seems from your speech, Mr Samara, you do not want, nor do you want a piece of paper to pick up a single stone to see what is underneath it. "The beard, beard," that's what you see. And, of course, it is not a matter of extinguishing the subject of the committee of inquiry to incorporate the Memorandum of five years into an undisturbed political continuity, starting in 1981. Can we not ask ourselves why since 1981, and not since 1974, since 1952, or from the creation of a Greek state? In such a case, in such a situation, what lawyers call 'a causal link between act and result' is lost. So we could even take on the first - time pair to get answers. But we weren't going to get answers. But the Greek people are asking for answers. Our proposal was put forward to investigate clean answers, darker, no matter how disturbing this is, and the Greek people will receive answers from this government, from this parliamentary majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u171	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u172	Mr Samaras asked for the floor. How long, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u173	I will speak for not more than five minutes, because I respect the other political leaders who need to be placed. You have been hurt, Mr Tsipras, by what I said about a pre-review committee if you go bankrupt and get us out of the euro. You have just confessed that you are basically going to turn the committee of inquiry into a preliminary investigation. And you dare say that I am threatened. You are the ones who are unwittingly and directly threatening. Do you feel like we're not going to an interrogation committee if you take the country to a credit event, because you opened the Ventalia of all your populism, with this arrogant arrogance? Do you have illusion or delusion, so I can tell you in the language you've been used? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] The people won't accept taking him to the cliffs. Remember that, Mr. Tsipras. You told us later - the second stage of populism - that the other thing is the MPs, but the people are the people. The President of the House is filled with pleas. If that is the case, Mr Tsipras, why did you block the constitutional reform of the New Democracy that would change the issue of the responsibility of the Ministers? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] One of your seats breaks down the one you've said earlier. There cannot be consistency and continuity in your populism. You're talking about our priorities. I, as Prime Minister, did not really have the committee of inquiry. Let the people punish me if they think I should have it. I, as Prime Minister, had to save this place, and I keep going and I have today. The first criterion is to save Greece. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Now, in the so-called overthrow of Mr Papandreou, I am sure Mr Venizelos will respond, but I want to tell you one thing. This is the first time that the Prime Minister has discussed with the President of the Republic and with you present. Do you want me to remind you that you proposed to Mr Arsenis then for Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u174	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u175	With you present and after Mr Papandreou had proposed to me up to five people for whom to put a Prime Minister and we ended up with Papademos. Have you forgotten?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u176	You're wrong, Mr. Samara.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u177	Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u178	Of course, it was another time back then. For Pikramenos, then the conversation was not about Papademos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u179	Watch out. And then, if you take it to Cannes - because you're confused, here's Travel - Tsipras, from here, nobody knows where you're talking about -...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u180	I did not participate in any discussion about Papademos. To Pikramey was this conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u181	Oh, the Pikramenos you did tell Arsenis. You told Arsenis to Pikramenos indeed. But I would remind you that at the time you in the Cannes condemned the so-called 'coup d'état - a motion for a referendum' rather than myself. I had nothing to do with it. You condemned it at the time, but you forget. You always think - another element of populism - that Greek by definition has a short memory. Finally, I would like to say on the subject of convergence. You said it was a summer night dream to go back into the government. I want you to know we're not talking about my dreams. The strangers have asked me whether I will support you to come out of your own "falers". And you should know that when I was asked by foreigners - foreigners in this House - whether I would support you, if the Members of your party did not support the agreement that you would conclude, I said what I have said here many times. If this agreement helps to keep the country in the euro, if this agreement helps finance the country, I will support it. I don't know what you guys are planning. I don't know how much the bill will go up in the meantime. I don't know what your people are up to. That is why I told you that this pro-European party will be supported, but do not take us any moment, Mr Tsipras. Finally, I will say this. Not to bring the Committee on the Truth of Public Debt to a model of democratic sensitivity and procedure! The question is about you. Has Mrs. Konstantopoulou substituted you for your duties, Mr. Tsipras? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Do you have legalization? And by whom do you have this legitimacy? However, you have not been legalized to go to this committee. And how did you feel there when you saw the other parties missing as a parliamentary Prime Minister? Here, can you give us an answer? A public answer, for example, has been given by Mr. Varoufakis who explained how he felt. He's said it in public. She didn't feel so good. You celebrated going to a committee - Prime Minister in the Greek Parliament! - you didn't see the other parties and you immediately celebrated because those people you didn't invite were missing! There's a limit to populism, Mr. Tsipras. And today you have shown it to the whole of it. It is unacceptable to say what you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u182	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u183	For only two minutes, Madam President, why arguments have been heard but cheap words have been heard. I want to stay in fact and not in gossip, and whether the President of this House has replaced me, Mr Samaras. It's not worth having such a confrontation. I would like to say to you this: Firstly, the Public Debt Investigation Committee is a committee that is open to everyone. And if your complaint is that you didn't attend...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u184	You didn't call us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u185	...I say the President of the House invite you to tell your opinion, and I promise you I will be here to listen to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u186	Is it a party?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u187	But the Bureau called for no parties. I did not go as a party representative. I didn't even talk. They're here. And you're here to know why, Mr. Samara? To listen to the President of the Republic. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Is the President of the Republic a child who was deceived by the President of the Parliament and came here to give value, which the President of the Parliament intercepted? She didn't know and she was there? That's your problem. Your problem, your anxiety and your stress are that the President of the Parliament launches a process, which has the support and authority and important personalities, as well as the President of the Republic himself. You must appreciate that. You must at least not blame, playing games with the institutions, the President of the Republic, as someone who was fooled and went to an event, which was undemocratic, was undemocratic. I want to come to the essence of the issues you have raised. Mr. Samara, let's tell you the truth. You would very much like to do a committee of inquiry. You'd love to. Do you know why you didn't do it? Because your co-pilot was Mr. Venizelos. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's the truth, Mr. Samara. And tell this truth in public, that the MPs and the Greek people listen to it. But since today you are presenting us with a new proposal, in my view, to investigate from 1981 to 2015 - it has not been heard before - that is to say, to investigate almost thirty-five years, since you, with your proposal, include as a subset and the period when we call on the Greek Parliament today to decide, why are you not today voting in favour of the majority proposal, proving that you have nothing to hide or something to fear, but are you making everything out in the light and why are you not afraid of anything? I therefore urge you to vote in favour of our proposal today. You should vote in favour of it and leave the escapades.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u188	The President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group, Mr Venizelos, has requested the floor in turn...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u189	No, that's not the show.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u190	... the President of the Potamio Parliamentary Group, Mr Theodorakis, and the President of the People's Association Parliamentary Golden Dawn Mr.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u191	No, Madam President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Venizelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u193	What do you think? We are after Mr Samaras in the order of Parliament, depending on the power of the parties. We're here before the PASOK comes in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u194	The reason has been asked before...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u195	No, you're wrong. With all due respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u196	...and has been requested in this order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u197	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u198	Madam President, we are here too. You're looking up to the right?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u199	There's no political leader on this side, Mr. Palphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u200	Yes, but the political leaders are ahead of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u201	I agree. Just say I've asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u202	Here, Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, I am starting with the operative of what I shall say, the conclusion. We're not in vain. It was assumed that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government will take the initiative immediately after its oath to set up this committee of inquiry. We consider the proposal put forward by a provocative and indiscriminate text.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u204	You should have spoken last!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u205	We do not vote for it because it is a raping of common sense, but we want the committee, we welcome it, we are glad that it is done. Of course we'll be active. We have already announced the issues that we want to explore and a first list of people who we consider necessary to be invited to the committee. Persons who have played an important political and institutional role in Greece, former Prime Ministers, former Ministers, Governors and former Governors of the Central Bank, as well as persons who play an important role in the European and international institutions, people with whom the government is now involved, and of whom very much depend on the progress of the country, the public finances, the fate of Greece. We also know very well from parliamentary history that whatever the decision of the House is, no matter what the subject matter and the timing of a committee of inquiry have, these committees have an irresistible dynamic. They will deal with all the issues and issues that are evolving, the current ones, for which the current government is responsible. But of course nothing stops in the October 2009 elections, why are you going to talk about the 2009 deficit and other financial and macroeconomic data, if you don't consider what happened in 2008, in 2007? We are not in vain and I suggest that no one mourns in this Chamber. We will go to this excellent forum that the committee of inquiry is, and that is where we will see what everyone says, what the truth is, because it really needs a parliamentary procedure to record the history of recent years, to inform the Greek people the truth, to understand the truth of you, ladies and gentlemen of the government and the majority of Parliament, what the mistakes you have made and I want to be diligent, what the demagogues you have made, what the responsibilities you have taken before the Greek people are. And remember everyone, everything here is paid. History is more than a short-term majority. As you are taking, with an unprecedented arrogance, for the 36% that the Greek people gave you in the elections, and I add the percentage of Mr Kammens, your sum is 41% - I remind you that the Greek people have given you far greater majorities, overwhelming, festive and, in June 2012, we have been instructed to do what has been done in the last two and a half years, with 48% of the parties, following the responsible European strategy. But what makes me sad and troubled, is that the Prime Minister made himself down to the role of the prosecutor, not the signatory and proposing the setting up of a committee of inquiry. It has not just reiterated the chapters contained in the word - word. He came here to pose a major threat, that the choices would be criminalised, that choices were made which had no political motive, but possibly a speculative motive and poisons the soul of the nation, poisons the functioning of the parliamentary system, while the country is in battle order and the government - supposedly - is negotiating hard. This proposal was ready and tabled, as a common product of SYRIZA and ANEL, the day after the parliamentary debate last Monday, in which Mr Tsipras had come and said he was lying, that he was asking for consent and for the coup d'état of Anti-Population. What Opposition? The slandered, the underwriting, the perverted. And the next day, this proposal was tabled that breaks the national effort. Instead of setting up a national negotiating team, instead of finding consensus points, we are dealing with what has happened over the past few years, but necessarily what is happening now and what is going to happen in the next few weeks. And I've been talking for weeks, because the time unit with which the government is moving is the week. It takes a lot of trouble every week to win a week. Now Mr. Varoufakis had to bow to Mrs. Lagard, on the Easter of the Catholics, in order to win the Great Orthodox Week. And we will see the week of the Resurrection, what the government will be up to to win a week's sunset. So we are voting against the text, but we are delighted to welcome the committee and its dynamics. The text also has another major disadvantage, it is the document of the political teratogenicity, the stimulation of the valued and ideological stimulation between SYRIZA and Independent Greeks. It is no political agreement, it is no longer a worthy moral agreement, and that must give you a strong concern, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA. So let's go see what is happening now and see what is happening within the committee. Mr. Tsipras says "You are contradictory, gentlemen of the Opposition" primarily addressed to the New Democracy, "Speak at the same time that we signed the extension, that we agreed on the Memorandum, but that we are driving the country on the rocks." Sure. I don't know if New Democracy says so, we say it. And you know what we call it? That you can't go forward or backwards. You're stuck, stuck strategically, I've told you many times. You don't have a break order, you can't go to a break. You do not have a majority and an internal consensus on a turn, and you are obliged to formulate a double word, a double language. Other within the country, where the feeling of the Leventis, the nationalist excitement, the "hard" negotiation remains, the idea that we can become Cougie, and others outside, where one humiliation succeeds the other. I have been to the room that Mr Varoufakis went to yesterday and have spoken to the Director-General of the International Monetary Fund. Never issued a statement by the Director-General, of this content, humiliating, that the Greek Minister of Foreign Affairs said "Yes, I have witnessed, we will pay the 9 April dose and pay all the instalments that compel the country to the adfinitum of the biennial adfinitum." And that he also agreed that the technical tiles of the troika will come to Athens, and will do what is done in the companies under takeover, mergerd or liquidated by Due diligence, under commercial law. This is the proud and cruel negotiation. The absolute humiliation at the headquarters of the International Monetary Fund. On the naive argument that Mr Varoufakis went to see one of the many Undersecretary of Finance, absent from the US Treasury Minister, and by the way he saw Mrs Lagard, from which she was obviously invited to apology in order to make it clear that there is compliance or leaving the International Monetary Fund, with the 15 billion she has to give until March 2016. Because that's the money. The other "hot" money is the 11 billion billion of the Financial Stability Fund, which took it through your hands. And now begging you to get back the 1.2 billion. As you begged to get 1.9 billion of the Eurosystem’s profits from Greek bonds, that is what we won, which I personally will tell you, I achieved the evening 21st to 22nd of February 2012, when we took this facility to improve the debt sustainability study. He says Mr Tsipras 'we are negotiating'. Where are you negotiating? And on what subject? We're spreading as a country. The economy, right now, is suffocating. Liquidity is withdrawn from the real economy in order to meet the public liquidity requirements. The low expectations society, for which I spoke to you last week, accepts the logic that "What to do, after we have made it clean, since we have wages for a week, is well again". Meanwhile, the primary surplus goes. There goes the positive rate of growth. There goes the strength and stability of the banking system, leaking of deposits, new recapitalisation needs, increasing red loans. And now that I have received 11 billion from us, the new recapitalisation will take place under the terms of the new directive, that is, unfortunately, according to the Cypriot model, when this time comes. Here we go! We turn around with our backs on the wall, and we think we're making a tough deal. What is the case on which the government is relying? That the Europeans and the IMF will not let us go to a credit event and to a Grexit. Yeah, I believe that. They won't let us go to an international credit event. We've already been to an internal payment stop. And right now, the economy is making a mistake. Yeah, we're not going to Grexit. We will be the black hole, third worlds within the euro, without euros, without growth, on the margin. Paris of the euro area. And you'll take all this until where? Say you're earning the time and we're going 30 June when the extension you signed and you're hiding it. What's going to happen on June 30th? You will be packed with the old money that is available and which is about 300,000,000,000, the IMF's 15 million, the 11,000,000,000,000, of the Financial Stability Fund and the 4,000,000,000,000 of the euro area, and they will give it back on strict terms, i.e. on a memorandum. There will be a repackage of the old loan with new terms, with Memorandum III, which will be humiliating, without an exit perspective, without a timetable. What did you mind following the timetable and the framework that existed?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u206	Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u207	What would you mind doing 'left' and 'hard' negotiations in February, putting the issues on the ground and getting out on the preventive credit line and moving on to the new phase? And now you want to see what Mr Tsipras said. First of all, I regret the fact that the Prime Minister is using the institution of the President of the Republic as an argument for a debate within the House, which is of a party nature and which is swept away wildly. Because we said that the exclusion of the period 2004-2009 from the investigation creates the impression, without this side of the conservative party being blamed, that one side of it has made a immunity agreement with SYRIZA. And like Mr Kammenos as a pillar of the nationalist extreme right, he collides with Mr Tsipras, so there is a sense of hegemony, which was reflected in the majority of the Presidential Election. That's it, unfortunately! [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President is ringing.]] And we are glad that New Democracy's proposal is taking over the period of 1981...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u208	Rejoice him! She's talking about Karamanlis!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u209	Yes, if Mr. Karamanlis has Mr. Nicopolos a performancer, he's saved! He's waiting for Mr. Nicholas to protect him! [[Laughers in the Chamber]] We expect continuity from the Democratic Conservative Party, a clear position, that there is of course no relationship, that everything needs to be investigated. And I was pleased to see Costas Karamanlis signing after Antonis Samaras the New Democracy's proposal to explore the whole period from 1981 to 2015. This is very important. We don't mind it starting in 1981. It's all right! We are not disturbed by the exception of Constantine Karamanlis. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] But of course the logic is to start from joining EMU on a PASOK government. Because there are historical criteria, scientifically, as Mr Loverd has said. But we also do not mind starting from October 2009, because the dynamics of the debate will take us backwards and forwards. "No hiding under the sun"! However, it is truly sad that Mr Tsipras himself comes to the House today from the Step forward that we need to investigate how the fraudulent growth of the 2009 deficit took place. In other words, it adopts Mr Kammenos's conspiracy. Does Mr. Tsipras not know that the Bank of Greece's administration warned in September 2009 that the monthly cash deficit is already two-digit, which is 10%? When the 12-month cash deficit is 13%, is it not reasonable for the budget to exceed 15%? But these experts will tell us. Eurostat will tell us, it will tell us the International Monetary Fund in which the current President of the National Bank, Mrs Katseli, said, as Minister of Government of Papandreou in March 2010, "we absolutely must resort to why he has money, will not set us terms and the interest rate on his loan will be 1%". That is, nothing to do with reality. Mr Tsipras says: 'Let's see how the PASOK government fell.' But isn't she asking Mrs. Casseli? He doesn't ask Mr. Curublis? Doesn't she ask Mrs. Sacorafa? Mrs. Jackie? Mr. Parastatides?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u210	Ms. Panaritan.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u211	Let her indeed ask Mrs Panaridis, another strong supporter of integration into the rules of the International Monetary Fund...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u212	That's the interactive speech, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u213	Mr Tsipras says: 'What happened in Cannes?' Should I tell him what happened in Cannes? What happened in Brussels on the seven-day day. [[Applause from the PASOK wing]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] In Brussels there was a communication from the Presidents of the three European institutions: the President of the European Council, the European Commission and the Eurogroup. And they said, "Go to Troika, Eurogroup and we're talking about it again." Even tougher Mrs. Lagard. That's what happened in Cannes. In Cannes, it happened that Mr. Tsipras cannot now play by referendum or elections. What referendum? The referendum on budgetary matters is forbidden in constitutional terms. And, as you say, it will be a referendum on the euro, 'in or out of the euro'. Mr. Tsipras has experienced his Cannes superstitiously. And he's going to elections? What's he gonna say in the elections? The ambiguity of the Thessaloniki program, the big and easy words? What's he gonna say? Turning to responsibility or rupture and exiting the euro? There aren't any of these. Enclavism is absolute. Cannes is an excellent topic for discussion on Mr. Tsipras. It must study the texts in depth. And, of course, I went to the Vice-President of the Government of Papandreou and then a few days later I was forced to remain, because I was asked by the political leaders to do so, with a statement from the Presidency of the Republic, Vice-President of the Government of Lucas Papademos. And at some point, I came back as Vice-President of the Government of Mr Samaras, New Democracy and PASOK, because my point was not to put my qualifications in interest and wait for the country to be destroyed to become a Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u214	What a sacrifice!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u215	My point was to get in front of our generation's war and win that war. The country's standing. Why is she standing up? You're putting an amazing dilemma. You say: "The country was in a situation in 2010 and suddenly because of a memorandum we had recession, unemployment and huge social problems." Is that the dilemma? Stay the way we were in 2009 or go to this situation? The dilemma was whether we would choose this situation at its cost or at its full cost. Not a cumulative recession of 25%, but a radical and immediate loss of 75% of GDP. No unemployment 26%, but 60% unemployment. That was the dilemma. And you say it now, Mr. Friend says it: 'Great. You did not do the haircut and restructuring in 2010, but in 2011-2012". Yeah, we should have done it since 2010. There were no allies and connections. The European Central Bank was completely opposed. The countries that are members of the euro area completely opposed. We did it late in July 2011. Has the debt composition changed? They left the private sector bonds and went to the public sector? Did they leave the German banks and go to the Greek insurance funds? It's all fantasy and lies. You know, ladies and gentlemen, how much was the debt in absolute numbers in 2004? It was 180 billion. 2009 was 300 billion. It increased 120 billion. Of the 300 billion now, after five years, we've gone to 320. With a cumulative recession of 25% and cumulative deficits until the time of the primary surplus. If the PSI had not intervened, the haircut and the restructuring, the Greek debt would have been 400% of GDP. We would be a country beyond the third world of the fourth world. Do you know how much money, how many bonds were in the haircut process why did the international private sector own them? Of the 300 billion there were 230 billion. The 230 billion out of the 300 on March 8, 2012 held them privately and were initially tired of 106 nominally and then another 20, total of 126, at a net present value of 180 billion. When you're trimming a euro, come compare. When you trimm a euro and restructure a bond, you come show it to me and I'll tell you good. They didn't leave any money from the German banks to go to Greek cashiers and stop this biterang with the funds. Now you're getting the cash from the funds and you're reposing them and inscribing bills. And you won't be able to give them back. Yeah, cut the public fund. For whom did the bonds get tired? For the government. If there were no state, would there be funds? Can the State not repay these amounts by grants to the funds? Do you know how much these sums were? It was 14 billion. Do you know how much of the state's annual grant to the funds for a year? It was 17 billion. Do you know that IKA respected our instructions and restored its portfolio to 130%? But your party and trade union leaders, in particular subsidiary insurance, wrote us in the oldest of their shoes and caused huge damage to the funds. This will be investigated. It's a really nice thing to do with the funds. And the banks. Which banks? Now Mr. Drasakis is constantly seeing foreign investors from banks and bank administrations. Do they have another recapitalisation scheme? Now they do not have 11 billion and they will recapitalise the Cypriot example, unfortunately. Now with what's going on, there's a leak in the statements. And unfortunately, since the country has been in a pre-election period, and this continues, the stock exchange value of the banks is falling apart. You know from the 39 billion, which we have given to support deposits, that is, banks how much did the Financial Stability Fund recover before December, due to a stock portfolio? The 25th, while the contract provided for 16. Every move you make, which throws down the stock exchange value of the banks, is a damage to the government. The fact that Mr Varoufakis signed the extension without legislative authorisation, illegally, do you know what responsibility this entails? Do you know what responsibility the contradictory statements on privatisation mean? What does it mean by the ministers, that we may not pay international obligations and lead to a credit event? What does it mean for the country, as a harm to the degradation from Fitch and other houses? What does spread eject? Come to the exam and see all this. And we'll see a lot more. We will see what it means to start with a primary deficit, with today's prices, 12.5% and deliver the country with a primary surplus. A country in recession since 2008. A country with a current account deficit, i.e. a productivity and competitiveness deficit of 15% since 2007. A country that in 2009 paid 12 billion for interest and now pays 5. It's like we've had 60% of all debt. And what we owe to the European and international public sector. So everything is so simple, so clear, and it's so nice to have this conversation. Let's see why Greece is here and Portugal is out, Ireland is out, Cyprus is out, see what would have happened if we had gone to uncomplicated bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u216	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u217	I shall conclude, Madam President. Of course, it is important now that Mr Tsipras finally tell us what he should say today: 'What is going to happen, where are we going, what is the timetable?' We were expecting him to tell us last Monday. What about the debt? That's good, Madam President's committee. The presence of the President of the Republic on a technical committee of the Parliament is unprecedented. He told me that "it is important for my speech, because that is where I said Greece would pay its obligations." I'll keep that. But he could say that from the presidential palace. What happens now? The Commission's proposals for unsatisfactory debts? And outside? Gently? Any issues? What did Mr. Varoufakis say to Mrs. Lagard? Nothing. What did Mr. Tsipras say on the seven-day? Nothing. What does he have to say? Call for the implementation of the decisions that we made in February and November 2012. Listen, we've pulled a lot, we've lifted a lot. PASOK has internal problems and has been mutilated. But, now the unified party, with all its powers and for what happened from October 2009 until now and for what is happening, will appear in the name of the truth, in the name of the history and self-awareness of this place. And it will impose the truth within the Committee of Inquiry. Because we consider this to be an excellent, unique opportunity for the Greek people to understand. And he'll understand, because he'll start to experience the new reality. And then this new reality doesn't excite any poll, no selfishness, no demagoguery!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u218	Thank you to the President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group. I have to say that when such an area is exceeded, that is twice as long as...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u219	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u220	............................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u221	Mercy! Enough! You don't respect anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u222	Gentlemen of PASOK, Mrs. Christophilopoulou, behave as appropriate...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u223	You're not a commentator...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u224	...with the place where you are and respect that there are rules in democracy. Don't shout. There are MPs, there are parliamentary representatives, there are party leaders who are entitled to speak. When such an area becomes overrun, therefore, what is being set before all of us is who will be wronged. And I have to comment on it. As I also have to say that - I will repeat, I am sorry - it is well known and undeniable that they were called in the process of setting up a Truth Committee - which I do not know why the word 'truth' is so disturbing, perhaps we should build a committee of lies where everyone will come very easily - all the Vice-Presidents of the House. Mr Kaklamanis came from New Democracy, came Mr. Kefaloyannis from New Democracy, Secretary of Parliament. [[Protests from the ward of PASOK]] I wonder if I could hear Mr Samara saying that the New Democracy was not called. I wonder if he does not know that the Bureau of Parliament has been invited all along, as well as I wonder in the respective communication - perhaps Mr Theodorakis will give me a reply - from Potami. Since the Vice-President, Mr. Lykoudis, has been invited, and said that he could not be present, I wonder how such complaints can be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u225	Please give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u226	I'll give you the floor, Mr. Lykoudi. Mr Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u227	Will you give me the floor, Madam President? There's been a reference twice to my name!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u228	I'll give you the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u229	You've made a reference twice to my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u230	In your presence, Mr. Lykoudi, both times.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u231	In a case completely personal - it had nothing to do with an invitation to the river...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u232	Please, let me open the microphone, Mr. Lykoudi, to be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u233	...as Vice President of the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Lykoudis, let me open the microphone for you to hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u235	I say that a noble lady, otherwise, from your office called me at 11 o'clock at night, on the eve of the committee's convergence, not as the representative of the Potami but as the Vice-President of the House, to take part in the convergence of the committee of yours. I said I'm busy and I can't come. That has nothing to do with what you are saying now. Potami was never invited and my invitation was completely on a personal basis as Vice-President of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u236	Thank you for confirming, Mr Lykoudi, that you were invited as Vice-President of the House. And I remind you that Vice-President of the House is in your capacity as Member of the River.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u237	So, just PASOK didn't call. Confess! Confess!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u238	I'll examine and what's distributed to the canister these hours if you keep going. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I have given the floor to the President of the Parliamentary Group The river. Mr Kefaloyannis will then be given the floor. Mr. Theodorakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, to begin with. Today we should not only discuss why we entered the memoranda. We should, above all, seek the reasons why Greece has not yet come out of the memos, because what Ireland and Portugal have done has not been able to do. You know that today Ireland is lending less than 1% of its ten-year bond, while Portugal with 2% and us do not lend us 10%. And, of course, these countries pay off their loans to the IMF earlier than the set limit, while we, when it comes to paying, begging or threatening. The recovery of the economy in the countries of the other Memorandums has come, while we see the unemployment indicators growing and the production indicators falling. The government says, of course, that it is negotiating hard and proud in the windows that at least it will pay wages and pensions. One must tell the majority of Parliament that supports this government, that Greece is not just the country of pensioners and civil servants. To pay salaries and pensions - so that you did - you did not pay suppliers, which means that you did not pay workers and suppliers' employees, you did not pay VAT. Three hundred and twenty-five days have arrived for VAT return. Three hundred twenty-five days! And you didn't even pay the medicaments you've already paid for. Banks, of course, do not lend and any investors who wanted to invest in this country are going panicky. Of course - and here I would like to address the previous speakers - the problems were not created by SYRIZA. SYRIZA continued. They came out to correct the mistakes and eventually add errors to the errors. That's how we got to the memorials with governments going on with each other's mistakes. Because the crisis - it is true - has not brought the Memorandum, as you were saying beforehand in the squares, gentlemen of SYRIZA. After all, Mr Tsipras said so in Berlin. To read it out in words that there is no misunderstanding: “It is not because of what happened to us and it is foreigners who happen to us. There are endogenous causes that led us to the crisis," said Mr Tsipras. In 2009, the country borrowed 66 billion euros to make it through. And for this crime - particularly for the next generations - no one was speaking, of course not on the Left. We took each year 20, 30, 40 billion euros and acted like it was our money, real income, production. We had the largest construction sector in Europe, the largest retail sector. And all, of course, at London prices. Will anyone ask: have all these billions of borrowers been wasted on consumption? Not only. So where did the loan go? This is an interesting debate that we need to have. And we can do it if we dare. I can think of at least three black holes in these endless loan: Wastes and overcompensations of small and large projects. Greece, in other words, corruption and interlocutory. A huge and inefficient public, what SYRIZA has been defending for so many years. Greece, i.e. the Rusphet and the client state. Of course, weapons, armaments. And when we say "weapons", gentlemen of SYRIZA, we almost always mean hatred. Weapons never come on their own. We had phenomena that, first, we paid for the misery and the weapons were taken after ten years. You will allow me here to open up a parenthesis. The government has given EUR 200 million to the humanitarian crisis and has secretly given EUR 500 million for a armament programme, without informing the House, without informing the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, without a competition, at the end of the day. He gave EUR 500 million on the same days he gave the EUR 200 million for the humanitarian crisis. Note: Equipment program at the price agreed by the previous ones, which you denounce! I think SYRIZA is adapting very quickly to the rules of the old political game. At the same time, we also have the theory of the sprayed ones, that some artificially enlarged the 2009 deficit to put us in the memoirs. A debate that shows us, of course, in Europe, because the whole world knows that in 2009 Greece had a deficit of 15% -16%. Can we therefore discuss all this in the House, in the committees? We're going to talk about it. To talk about the responsibilities of the governments who charged the public with hundreds of thousands of civil servants. Recruitment from March 2004 to June 2009 reached the eight hundred sixty-five thousand. To talk about the responsibilities of parties and opposition that have never raised a question of public debt. It was EUR 152 billion in 2001, EUR 184 billion in 2004 and EUR 300 billion in 2009. To speak, too, about the responsibilities of the House, which has always voted on defence spending - always at a celebrity! - when the whole country was helping for the hatred and long life of politicians, which were around supplies and armaments programmes. Are we going to talk about all this in exam? The government majority of SYRIZA - ANEL tells us 'No'. We're interested in, they say, interrogating our political opponents, doing a TV show. In a void of antimony canvas, we'll say. Potami, Members of Parliament, says: If we really want to look for how and why we entered the memoranda, we need to go back a little bit further. And how far behind, it's not defined by each other's political delinquency. It is defined by the facts and not by when our opponent came to power. And the fact is one: the country's entry into EMU. The fact is the euro. This was Greece's huge opportunity to become a normal European country. Politicians, however, or rather not to simplify many politicians, were not worthy of the great choice. Our country historically had two great opportunities to become a strong country, a country with rights and development. The first was the entry into the EEC that imposed, against all of us, Constantine Karamanlis and the second was our entry into the euro area, the decision to adopt the euro as the currency of the country. It is a decision that today accepts and supports - to remember - the overwhelming majority of the Greek people, but which, unfortunately, some people are questioning, some abroad, some inside and, unfortunately, some in this Chamber, the government majority. If we want to understand what was going wrong, then we need to start and consider what had to be done in this country and not these years, since we entered the euro until today, because politicians did not do what they had to do, and why they were just serving their customers, the 'logues' and the guilds, not for the interests of the many. Participation in the euro area was the great opportunity for the country to gain this much-needed European regularity, without of course losing its soul, its peculiarity, gradually converging - to use a condition that was very fashionable at the time - with the rest of the countries, to converging the real economy, to converging institutions, to eliminate the pathogens, the client state, tax evasion, corruption and structuring, to have an effective public with assessment and accountability. We hired hundreds of thousands of employees. And when the time came for the crisis, we started the horizontal cuts. We have stubbornly refused to assess what is useful and what is not this monster created by the party state, the parties. And so, with the barbarity of the horizontal cuts chosen by the previous governments, we have arrived at teachers taking less than ECHO officials. Social justice, care for the poor - care and opportunities, not care and masses - was superficial all these years. The costs of dealing with poverty and social exclusion in Greece have not brought results. We have had the worst performance in Europe and in this area. Money - a lot of money - was wasted on bureaucrat and narco and monkey structures and never reached those who really needed them. We have not succeeded in creating an insurance system that will protect all citizens because, on the left, neither pensions at fifty nor penthouses are left-wing policies. And I'm saying this specifically for you who refused with everyone else the reform of the insurance system. It is one of the many wins of the old system that we must study and learn. Ladies and gentlemen, when the rest of Europe was trying to move towards new international competition, we were closing the borders, closing the ports, upright walls, deterring every one who had a desire to do something creative, something new, taking risks and creating for himself and for society as a whole. These are the pathogens that afflict the country and have brought us to this end, an unorganised corrupt state and a clientele party system, which have made Greece misled even today, to the limit of the exit from the Eurozone. That's what a committee of inquiry should see. Ladies and gentlemen, over the years that led us to the memorials, society has lost part of its soul. Forget the important stuff. Unemployment, our biggest problem, is forgotten by everyone today. The government is rushing, is nervous, to legislate for ERT, third-type prisons and for young people, who are swinging a handkerchief, not a single thought. The unemployment rate today, especially among young people, is, of course, about the poor economic situation of the country, but it has to do with the total impossibility of using resources and programmes available in the European Union for five years. So this debate must be held in the House on the mistakes that have led us to the memorandum, the mistakes that keep us in the memorandum. Because the good intentions - let me accept that they are dominating, gentlemen of SYRIZA - are not enough to get out of the memorandum to get out of the deadlock. But you, apparently, don't want to talk about all this. You want to speak only of the political actions of your opponents, about the memorials. We, of course, can talk about the memorials, about the responsibilities of the New Democracy and PASOK, about those who, instead of hitting tax evasion and corruption, instead of limiting the customer state, cut off wages and pensions and put new taxes on those who were unfortunately afraid of big reforms, for those who have often sacrificed the weak and those who did not have access to their authority to protect their customers and your partners. I want here, gentlemen of the government, to open up a parentheses. The Minister of State said that it is unacceptable for there to be a mass media living with loans and not fulfilling their obligations. We agree. It's simple. It's unacceptable. But you say half the words, gentlemen of the government. The river has said before the elections and before the European elections that it must enter the television scene. We need to break the triangular political relationship, media, banks. So give priority. Don't haggle with your new supporters. Open your papers, bring law to the House, and here we are to discuss it. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the eurozone investment optimism is rising constantly. Draghi's plan seems to be performing. The euro is underestimated, oil is cheap and money is even cheaper. Everyone expects better days. Everybody but the Greeks! And the old parties, at the initiative of your majority, are setting up and setting up here in the House the arena of misery, "He said to me", "He said to you", "I said to him" and back completely. For the rest of Europe, participation in the common currency has been a great opportunity to see from the outset the mechanisms for controlling power, the methods of participating in the common currency, the institutional framework for representation. Instead of looking for great consensus on the transformation of the economy, production, society, we insist on playing a sterile and self-destructive game of confrontation. I want to make a clarification. I am not talking, of course, about a government of national unity. I do not think it is feasible or necessary. But I am talking about alliances on the major policies that will take us out of the deadlock. I am talking about the major twists that the political system needs, a new electoral law, without the abortion, as you have been saying for so many years, of the fifty seats in the first party. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] Why don't you give priority to this great democratic division? Who do you hear, gentlemen of the government? Not us, though. We are telling you about education, security, justice, publicity, transparency. You do not listen to us, as you do not hear the praises, as you do not hear the deep aid of society. You still live on your laurels. You only hear your components and your far-right ally. You did not notice that these days Greeks began to become pessimistic again. The evidence shows it, the measurements. The optimism and hope that SYRIZA gave birth to power lasted only two months. Now come uncertainty and concern about the course to the unknown and - believe me - will not leave with examination. We, of course, the memorial movement of the country, which we have no involvement in the political crimes of the past, will be present in the examination, not to play inquiries, but to try to put the conversation on the right tracks for all these important things that I have told you. We are not, of course, optimistic and you know the evidence. Seventeen examinations have been carried out since 1989 and all, but all, have come to multiple findings. Each party had its own findings, as if the truth always has the color of your ideology. Still, I told you we'd be here. We will not vote in favour of your proposal, but we will be here to help people see themselves in the mirror and - more importantly - to contribute to national self-awareness, which we so much need today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u240	Thank you to the President of the River. Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u241	Madam President, to restore the truth, on Friday afternoon at noon, I received a call from your mobile phone to attend the committee on Saturday, Sunday and Monday. Today, I am sorry to see that this invitation and my presence are being used as an alibi in order to cover any omission or error in the representation of the parties. I would therefore expressly and categorically state that I was present as a Secretary of Parliament and not as a representative of the New Democracy, which was never, as far as I know, invited to be represented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u242	Mr. Kefaliannis, you do not restore anything. As Secretary of Parliament you have been invited as all the members of the Bureau. No parties, not even government parties, were specifically invited. There was an open invitation to all Members and they were invited by institutions - because this is a committee set up by the President of Parliament - all the members of the Bureau. It is surprising, however, that some parties appear to be extinguished that they have been omitted while they have members of the Bureau and their members have been invited. [[Noise from the Wing of the Parliamentary Group The River]] However, there was no need for the invitation to you as a party invitation in this sense, so there was no reason to restore itself. I thank you, however, for confirming yourself and that you were invited and attended on Sunday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u243	Madam President, because you asked me, you will allow me...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u244	The President of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nikos Michaloliakos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u245	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the '50s and '60s the urban anti-communist state had a term, the term 'partners', in which 'partners' included everyone who did not belong to this party. It seems that some, after the theory of 'two limbs', also considered the theory of'summers'. So we have seen a host of publications, which for us are completely false, defying our political identity, that we supposedly support SYRIZA, that we have supposedly made a secret agreement with SYRIZA. And it is so untrue that we have seen it today, when in the series of speakers, the leaders of the parliamentary groups, we have seen that the usual procedure is being dismantled and instead of a third party coming at 00: 45 to speak. Before I refer to the committee of inquiry, I would like to say that a vote will take place shortly. The Members of Parliament are not taken for granted. They're representatives of the nation. There are three Members missing. This is an anomaly, which we will constantly denounce, we will essentially denounce the removal of the civil rights of three of our competitors, who are confiscated and yet have full political rights. And the Member's political right is to be in Parliament, to be chosen and, of course, to vote. We shouldn't be talking right now. We should speak to third parties, because that is what the Greek people decided. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] It was September 2013 when some decided with a political device to wear us handcuffs. We now have April 2015. Three elections took place: regional and municipal elections, European elections and national elections, and mud stubbornness, in slander, in persuading political preparations, which put us handcuffs, in persuading all, to the perpetrators of wealthy tax-guzzlers called the "canals of Interface", the Golden Dawn, whether they like it or not, became a third political force of the country. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I would also like to say that, in a rule of law, there is the presumption of innocence and yet, a number of people here are grappling their mouths and even before we are tried by justice, they give us designations which do not belong to us. We're innocent, and that's what he'll judge. And if we are persecuted today, others were persecuted in the past, but the future was rightful. With regard to the Alpine Commission, for which I have heard you say before, it is a good initiative, but we do not expect a committee of the Greek Parliament to produce a result on the burden of public debt. What is needed is an appeal to international organisations and a direct complaint to the memorandum, and that has not been done. How did we get to the memorial? How did we get to 2009 and 2010? We could say a lot and it was right in some way and the New Democracy's proposal that a committee of inquiry should be set up to examine the country's progress since 1981. I shall briefly speak of some'memorandums' before the Memorandum of 2010, signed by the country, first and foremost by Greece's accession to the European Union under the conditions laid down. This has not yet been examined seriously by anyone in this country. It has never been examined how the fruits were thrown into the dumps by farmers, by taking subsidies, how trees were torn apart, how cattle were to be cut, how our national production was to be reduced. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The impact of Maastricht, GATT and the global agreement on international trade has not yet been examined, what has been done with the Greek filamentaries, the whole of them. Greece has been filled in Macedonia and Thrace with cemeteries of factories. All that was the task of the accession of Greece to the European Union - the European Economic Community was then called - never a serious investigation. They didn't even sit now that we went bankrupt to look into it. Then, of course, we had over-financed the state, over-consumption. But I won't stand on all this. There's a lot of details and a lot of years. We had another event, which I want you to connect to the next event right away. We had the big stock exchange robbery, when the Greek people's money was collected, and immediately afterwards - symptom? - We've entered the eurozone, we've entered the euro. On what terms did we enter the euro? What happened to joining the euro? The results show that we have been bankrupt. That's what happened. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, entry to the euro in 2002 was an important fact, which must of course be considered in relation to the bankruptcy and the exorbitant debt that the country has led to. But we had something else. We had in 2004, with the huge expense, with the huge waste. There is still no audit for the waste 2004. And who can talk? The intertwined channels and large newspapers all had the holistic ads paid by the Athina 2004 Agency and were silent. Absolute fibrillation. Even several of the "informers" - within many introductorys - of the Greek people were in the funds, in the payroll, at the payroll of "Athens 2004". Silence there too. We also had the equipment. I disagree with the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, who referred to this earlier. These armaments had to be made in the country, but not with these wonderful sums that we paid for. Proof of the fact that they were a great deal of money was that these companies shared hatreds with the involved actors and agents in order to ensure the sale of military aircraft, armoured, missiles and other weapons systems. Of course, the Committee of Inquiry, proposed by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, cannot give the politicians criminal responsibility, because there is the law on the responsibility of the Ministers. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] The President of the New Democracy, Mr Samaras, said earlier: 'You did not let us review the Constitution'. The Constitution, however, and in particular this black sign of public life called the Law on Responsibility of Ministers, could be reviewed as of May 2013, when it was completed five years after the previous constitutional review. How did he suddenly remember it in October - November, a year and a half later, in order to use it as a pretext for not having elections? So that's the argument. The Law on Responsibility of Ministers could have been revised as of May 2013 and that was not the case. However, if criminal responsibilities cannot be attributed to politicians, they can be attributed to natural persons who were the contractors of public works, all those who benefited from waste over this period. Of course, we have reached 2009 with all this. We arrived on 2 September 2009, when the Prime Minister at the time of the New Democracy announced early elections on 4 October 2009. Then George Papandreou with the well-known motto "liquids exist" took the election with 44%. It has been mentioned many times in Mr Samaras' dialogue with Mr Tsipras, who has the great percentages. The large percentages are easily made very small. I'll remind you that George Papandreou in 2009 took 44%. Just a year later, he kept a quite large part of that percentage. Proof is that he won the municipal and regional elections and still held. So on 4 October, we have a PASOK government. Immediately thereafter, sixteen days later, two weeks later, the Minister of Finance George Papaconstantinou comes out and announces to ECOFIN that the deficit for 2009 will be as a percentage of GDP of 12.7% instead of 6% calculated by the previous government. This is a key point which also shows the delusion, showing what it was preparing for the country, that is to say, the preparation of the memorandum. Only a few days later we have continuous downgrades from the ratings of the famous economic houses, Fitch, "Standard & Poor's" etc. These houses are nothing but branches of the world banks, which lend us, that is, they regulate everything. "Yiannis is buying, Yannis drinks"! The follow-up is known. On 23 April Greece appealed to the support mechanism - so they called it - which was made up of the European Union, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund. At this point I have to say - and it is not my opinion, it has also been mentioned in a study by Professor Cassimatis - that it was illegal and unconstitutional, because Article 28 of the Constitution clearly states that the assignment of national sovereignty can only be done for reasons of European integration. It was not a reason for European integration, in any case, to get money from the International Monetary Fund. From there on, we had five years of misery full of great words, namely that in one year's time we will be able to depreciate the major crisis, we will be able to borrow from the markets, we will be able to settle the debt etc. You know them very well. At first, the New Democracy reacted, then completely agreed and went into conflict with the PASOK. In conclusion, I would like to say that the people are indeed suffering. She's thirsty for truth, and she wants justice. But how can justice be done when criminal responsibilities cannot be attributed by this committee of inquiry to political persons? Do we need a committee of inquiry on the memorandum when we have not ensured that the current government does not sign an agreement which will be a new memorandum? The President of the New Democracy said it beforehand and he did not receive a reply. He spoke of a Luxembourg court, spoke of English law. I did not see it at this point getting an answer. That is why, if they were the traitors who signed the old memorandum, as you described them and we described them, then they will also be the ones who will sign the new memorandum, which you can say agreement or whatever you want. For all these reasons, we will vote against the committee of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u246	Thank you to the President of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn. In order to restore things, I repeat that, when those who ask for the floor, as we said at the beginning of the sitting, are given the floor in the order requested. That was the case when Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks asked for the floor before the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party and of the River before. The Houseary Representative of the JRC now has the floor, but I would like us to agree on the procedure before you come, Mr Pafile, to Stepa. The time is 1.00 ́. We had said that we would conclude the sitting at 1.00 ́, because then roll-call votes. There are two Parliamentary Party Representatives, which the leader of their party has not spoken. It's Mr. Pafilis and Mr. Nicolopoulos. I'll give them the floor right away. Then there are two other parliamentary representatives spoken by the leader of their party, but they are entitled to because they have not taken the lead and will speak half of the time they are entitled to. It's Mr. Pappas, who has asked for the floor first, and Mrs. Liberaki. They're entitled six minutes. I propose that we conclude the debate with these speeches, and I also call on the non-original parliamentary representatives to state whether they wish to give up their prototype. The Bureau will not force this. Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u247	Madam President, will the Members ever speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u248	Mr Balaura, the Members of your next party, because you are nowhere near those who will speak, but you are complaining, have resigned. So, don't get rid of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u249	Because they can't talk if they go out in the morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u250	Madam President, you have given twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u251	However, I am pleased that everyone complains against the President. That probably means I'm kind of doing things. Come on, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u252	Mr Balaura, tell the government, your Chief and the ministers, not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u253	Mr. Pafile, but this is where he gave twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u254	Time's running. Oh, it's not running, okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u255	The ANLL Parliamentary spokesman spoke twenty-three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u256	I should probably also use the procedural procedure, not to analyse the crisis of capitalism and what we are living for, but to make a position about what the Communist Party of Greece says. We didn't. We're here to talk, and no Member has spoken. It's a regular procedure. Don't be surprised about the new ones. That's what's going on. It's just that the poles are replaced. Before, we had another government and other Civic Antipolitics, and now the terms have been reversed. It's just this conversation we're living here. Let me say something at this hour: we didn't become wise. We hear the same thing. We hear what was said last week. If you also exclude this interrogation which has given rise to reconfrontation, we have actually heard the same thing. I shall begin with the question raised by the Prime Minister. We must give the Greek people honest answers. We agree to give honest answers. In fact, he said to find the dark sides of all this process of memoranda. We have no objections, nor have we ever objected to looking for the dark sides in various scandals or in various committees of inquiry. But our experience - not only ours, but the overall one - says that, despite the statements on the dark sides, these aspects have finally remained dark. However, we are not in a mood, nor will we contribute. We will do the opposite, in the name of the dark sides, to hide the bright sides, the ones that are clearly visible and which the Government but also the Dedicated Opposition is trying to cover up and hide. Because that's the point. So if we want to tell the Greek people the truth, we must say what the real causes led to the memorial and anti-grass measures and to the whole situation, which I do not want to describe why the Greek people are best aware of. What are the real causes? This is what the government proposal is trying to hide, but also the opposition to the counter-proposal that it brought two hours before the meeting. We believe that these aspects that have been brighter than ever in many years, but in particular in recent years, are trying to hide, because in reality, both the government today and the opposition government and yesterday's government are moving with differences, in the management mix, on the same road, on the road to capitalist development within the European Union, with the euro at all costs and all that we have been living in before and in the past. This attempts to acquit and load on operations and management. I'll talk to you later. What do we have now? Because indeed, sometimes discussions in the House are good for inspection or satyrically. We therefore say that the New Democracy has been saying 'no' in the first memorandum, then applying the Memorandum to the Government, and is now signing a new one, and now comes with a proposal to look back since 1981, saying that it has inherited all these problems since 1981. Government's coming today SYRIZA - ANEL, proposing a committee of inquiry on the memorandum since 2009. He's uploading them to all the other guys. In our opinion - I wish we were disproved, but it is not so - it seeks an alibi for the fact that, not only did it not abolish it by a law - with an article as you said - but it signed the agreement on 20 February, which continues the memorandum, is continuing the loan contract and is probably prepared for a new memorandum, as it may say. He can say it differently. Besides, we are in a time when many of them are being baptized. Troika becomes an institution. The Memorandum may become a new agreement or development agreement. At the same time, he says he inherited and is in this poor situation today by the previous ones. It's not new. He's an old man. The theory of the "burned land", of the "licensed funds" - the Prime Minister said it here - is the claim of every government that comes after the previous government, to prepare the people that, because they found "burned land" and "licensed funds", they must lower their demands, they must not ask for much. Also, there is a theater of irrationality. No one else can call it that. The government says 'I signed an agreement on 20 February, which is polite, which abolishes the memoranda and everything else'. It's things that don't apply. Why doesn't he bring her to the House? Since she's so philosophical, after she abolished the memorials, why doesn't she bring her to the House? I'm asking you, what are you doin' today? What laws? With the memorials, don't you rule? Have you abolished any laws? May one for a sample, have a flag, a fig sheet? Nobody. And yet it does not bring it to the House. The New Democracy and the PASOK that unleash cords from here are asking to come to the House and vote for it. Then what do you call New Democracy and PASOK? After you agree with the agreement signed by the SYRIZA - ANEL government in February, what are you shouting then? All right, it's a bump that doesn't come to the House. But since you are strategically agreed, support it and stop the Opposition. That's the bipartisan, though. That is the controversy which, in our view, is false. That is why we tell the Greek people not to fall victim to the disorientation and all this polarisation that is trying to grow. Let's clarify our position. We will participate in the committee, as we participated in all the committees of inquiry. We will make an effort with the forces we have, with the evidence we can have, to reveal the truth to the Greek people about the memoranda. We will try - as long as we can, of course, because it is very difficult for us - to help those dark sides that exist - if there are those who exist, that is, if some have won, if there are all those things that are said - to get to light to understand the people as well. But we cannot agree. We cannot vote for it. We shall vote 'at present', because we strongly disagree with the political considerations of the government and the opposition - here of course we are talking about the government - which hides the real causes. So what is the government doing? Firstly, it seeks to clarify the basic fact - which is a more general political and ideological issue - that the memorandum was not the cause. The crisis in Greece did not come from the memorandum. Nor in the other capitalist countries did the crisis come from the memoranda, because there were two - three countries. However, the capitalist world as a whole was plagued and plagued by a crisis which is a crisis of capitalism itself. That's what he's hiding and he thinks the memorandum has brought the result. That's the first reason. Secondly, it takes out the European Union's policy. I'll say a few things at the end. He also spoke to Mr Hoodis, who was truly revealing and honest, but we disagree radically, of course. It comes out of oil that the measures in the memorandum were requirements of capital - both Greek and European - not now, but for many years. Just, these measures that have been implemented on a path of years in the European Union and in other capitalist countries have come after the crisis in Greece gathered together, in a violent, barbaric way - everything you say, we agree - and have actually brought a tragic situation that has not been created before. However, the basis for the measures in the memorandum was the requirements of the capital - and of the European - in order to be able more generally to overcome the crisis by loading it on the workers and as much as possible a controlled depreciation of capital, because if we arrive in 2015 to discuss how the capitalist crisis erupts and say that, anyway, this was something different, then we should all be unscrupulous. The capitalist crisis is coming, as it comes. Mr. Karathanasopoulos said it, let me not repeat it and waste my time. The crisis is overcome by specific methods. That's all there is in history. You haven't found a new theory before today, so you can actually make fun of the world. One method is war. The major capitalist crises were overcome with World War I and World War II, temporarily. Overall, they are intended to reduce the value of the labour force - in war is, of course, destroyed - and to devaluate part of the capital so that the capitalist machine can come in again. Who disagrees with that? Let him come and tell us. Is this a peculiar Greek thing? Is that something terrible or amazing? Are we talking about experimental animals, like they say about Greece? Are you serious? What serious economist, with evidence, can prove that? Who can prove that Greece has become an experimental animal? The whole capitalist crisis that broke out sync, was it a result of conspiracy? That's how capitalism works. That is why we could say that if you want to have a debate on the memorandum, we can discuss what Marx wrote and is valid in full until today. You're hiding something else too. You hide that the memorandum was an option for Greece's urban order. It is many years since Greece's urban order called for these measures to be taken to reduce labour costs and save funds to invest in a number of social sectors. These are undeniable policies. All the governments that have been through so far on this road have moved. Are there dark sides, enrichment and everything else? We're interested in these things being said. But don't do the second gentleman. But is that possible? The same as Papandreou says, Mr. Tsipras said here! The others say it. So what's the matter? Is it the corruption, the opacity? That's what Mr. Papandreou said here. Is that because we were driven to the crisis or the capitalist development path? We must therefore make it clear that there are two views on the crisis. There's our opinion, which says it's a capitalist crisis, a carabinat, genuine and so forth, and there's... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Would you give me some time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u257	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u258	Thank you. The rest of you, what do you say even today? Kazino capitalism, toxic bonds, financial crisis. Is that it? Who can seriously support or support what the proposal for a debt crisis says? And what does it call it? He says the debt crisis has turned into a national tragedy. I don't want to be tempted now to comment on what was said before. Outside we say we're going to pay the debt, and inside we're building a committee to see what's good and bad. I'll talk about that later. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] So let's see how the debt has been swelled and where it's swelled. Firstly, why was the Greek economy and the Greek people being charged? It was scandalous to strengthen business groups. I challenge you and you, all of you, to tell us how much the big business people have taken, the big interests, the business groups over the years to invest and how much they put themselves. Get out and get that evidence. How much did HOCTIEF put into airports? How much did they put on the Attica Street? How many big projects? The rest of who paid for it? The Greek people paid them either from the public programme...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u259	Nothing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u260	You answer 'nothing'. But you don't say that anywhere. Second, I'll talk about the Olympic Games. The public debt was 97.4% of GDP in 2003 and in 2006 it went 106.8% of GDP. I'm continuing on armaments expenditure, mission programs of Greek...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u261	You were in favor of the Olympic Games...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u262	We weren't in favor. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u263	You were in favor. You forget it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u264	You must monitor the JRC's policy. We started politically - and here it shows that we are not petty - saying that a small country can also take over the Olympic Games because the giants were fighting. But on the way...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u265	That's what we're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u266	Don't rush! In my village, they said, "Let me slaughter it and then you lick it." And in your parts they must be called it. But then we said we were opposed. We said who won and who lost. That's our place. Thirdly, I should like to say no better about the armaments programmes. Don't tickle me. I will say for today, for the 500 million, which is being given in the middle of a crisis for modernization and so on. In 2009 Greece had 4% of GDP in military expenditure - so let me say - while France had 2.4% and Germany 1.4%. That's what you might agree on. But what are you all hiding? Here are the enormous political responsibilities, the consequences of the integration of the Greek economy into the European Union and EMU. What did we have? We had a contraction of branches, such as textiles, leather, shipyards, metal and so on. They're closed. They've been destroyed. What else did we have? We had an expansion of the trade deficit from 4% of GDP - which was not a deficit - in 1975-80, to 11% of the deficit in 2000-2010. Where did that come from? It came from accession to the European Union, which all of you, with the exception of the JRC, supported after being furiously supportive. Worst of all is not that. It is that after all that we have experienced, after this tragedy, from the pricking of the people and the Greek people from the European Union, you say that it is a one-way road, even now. Thirdly, I shall refer to the common agricultural policy. The agricultural balance of surplus 9 billion drachmas in 1980 reached 3 billion euros in 2010. And Mr Papadimoulis said: 'If the common agricultural policy was not there, we had to invent it.' You think that's what I'm talking about? You're hiding these things. You hide them and go to management only. I shall refer to the external balance, the current account balance. We had a surplus of 1.5% over the period 1975-80 and a deficit of 13% in GDP in 2000-2010. Are you telling the Greek people, or are you just looking to find the conspiracy and who won? You don't say that. And you do not say them for historical reasons or why you do not know them, but why you are choosing the European one-way for debt. That is why we do not participate in the committee. It's not a point of order if he called us or didn't invite us. We all know each other here now. We do not participate, because we cannot legitimise by our presence what you are doing today, Government SYRIZA and ANEL, to divide the debt into good and bad. We say the people owe nothing. He produced everything with his sweat and blood. They stole it all over the past few years, and the loans were given to those who exploit it. That is why there is one solution: the unilateral deletion of the debt with all the other political proposal we are saying. Finally, let us see what you and I say. You're saying it's about the situation this far. It's about the management. That's what you're saying! Isn't that right, Mr. Voutsi?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u267	Not exactly. But you can go ahead. At 1.20 in the morning, everything can be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u268	But if I said it before, I might have said it more... but now at 1.20 I have the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u269	At 1.20' I hear them differently!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u270	You put some capitalism on the side. But you're basically saying it's the management. It's the PASOK, it's the New Democracy. Of course they are. We don't say it's not our fault. But...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u271	We're talking about the memorial.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u272	As far as the memorandum is concerned, I told you before and I will continue...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u273	Three years I haven't heard from you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u274	Don't rush! Listen now! Because, in this Chamber, we have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u275	Aah! Capitalism, capitalism, but... Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u276	We have lifted the ban on the Acropolis, which says: 'Others of Europe, get up'! You said at PASOK, here in the Chamber, that we will observe and criticise your programme. We said'storms come!' We held an international conference in 1997 and said that there is a strong capitalist crisis in Greece, which will manifest itself severely because of too many factors. You celebrated development over the government of Simitis and celebrated Greece's entry into the euro! Yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u277	Where? In Genoa?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u278	Here's the results!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u279	Where did we go?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u280	Here's the results. And I keep going. You celebrated for the euro and EMU.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u281	Let go of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u282	In fact, you were asking for a political unification of the European Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u283	All right! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u284	I'll keep going. And if we had any doubts, we were wrong...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Palphie, slowly, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u286	I shall conclude, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u287	We are now relaxed, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u288	I say that if we were to think if we were to make a mistake covering the capitalist development path - to speak with open papers - and purify the European Union, I would like to say that Mr Hood's speech was serious and revealing. Firstly - and I cannot comment on it - he said to see if the armaments passport was to get Greece into the euro. Didn't you say? So I say: Really, the European Union did not know that Greece did not have any indicators for entering the euro? Are you serious? He knew everything! Why did he put her in the euro? For political reasons. Because then there was the euro-dollar conflict, but also because the European Union wanted to present a stronger country, a more powerful force in the negotiations as a whole. That's why he put Greece in the euro! Were there any complaints then? And from New Democracy, which was Opposition. Didn't Mr. Karamanlis and the government say that the evidence is fake? Didn't the Europeans hear them? They didn't know? But for political reasons it has been done. But you don't want to touch that. And I come to the second point.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u289	And with this, Mr. Paphie, you can finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u290	I will finish, Madam President. Leave me now! We are here to talk at 1.30, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u291	Mr Pafile, you spoke at first, on the point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u292	Madam President, we have all spoken twice a year. And Mr. Tsipras, but the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u293	Let's go by 3:00 in the morning! There's no such thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u294	And you compete with them, Mr. Paphie!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u295	Wait till you hear me. Don't shout! It says that the Committee of Inquiry is done for the sake of the country and will be superstitious for the political system. I take the word 'political' and leave the word'system'. Will he deliver who, Mr. Hood? Capitalism? So it will turn out that the memorandum was an exception, an abortion, but capitalism can be better. That's what we understand and that's it! [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't make a fuss. I am not commenting on the International Monetary Fund. And I'll give you some advice. When using an institution - in your opinion - do not use it on a case-by-case basis. Why in this Chamber have we lived in mysteries against the government and anthems in favour of the International Monetary Fund, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u296	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u297	You weren't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u298	No, it wasn't.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u299	Do you remember them? That's exactly what it was. So I say - you know very well and we have done on those benches - that the International Monetary Fund is present at the meetings of the institutions of the European Union and that the International Monetary Fund has existed before. Finally, so that I do not abuse time, Mr Hoodis says that, if it does not come to a conclusion from the memorandum, it will come about for the Greek people that no matter what you do, there is nothing going on. We agree that this may come about, but it also has an extension, which you have forgotten about. So you say to the Greek people "Whatever you do can only do within the European Union and on the capitalist path of development." So here we are across the street. You, with that logic, grow delusional even today. All right, what else do you need to see? What else should the Greek people and the people of Europe see from what is called the 'European Union' and the 'capitalist development path'? Where else would he go? To the tarts? They've arrived in the trash with an end to it. So here comes the proposal from the JRC and says: 'Outside the European Union, socialising the means of production, unilateral deletion of debt, the people in real power'. This is our position as a whole. And today that's what you're trying to avoid. But he'll be here sooner or later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. However, you should review your position on the Public Debt Truth Committee, because it is a committee that will also contribute to debt write-offs. So reexamine it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u301	Mr. Varoufakis said we'd pay it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u302	Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Nikolaopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u303	Ladies and gentlemen, as long as the years are over, one can see that the unbelievable things can happen, for example, as I will confess to you, with what Mr Pafilis has said from the Communist Party on'sea-fishery', Mr Pappa. "DIGEA" got another loan, did you hear? Thirteen million, it wasn't just, it's all the conspiracy. They are the seas. But he still finds out that they stayed here and applauded Venizelos, friends, allies, likewise, when he said what he said about Costas Karamanlis. You see, in the end, Mr. Venizelos convinced me that a ghost lies above the country's political life, to paraphrase Karl Marx, the ghost of Costas Karamanlis. It seems that Mr. Venizelos is probably appalling the downcoming events and realizes that the crisis that has opened with the retreat of Costas Karamanlis will be closed on his solemn return. You, Mr Venizelos, know very well what happened in 2008 and 2009, because in fact, if you had not given in to the bruising of power and a new round of plundering in Greece - which did not come to you - the country would not have gone through the trials it has passed and passed. In this case, of course, Mr Venizelos, you were neither a witness nor an observer, as you wished to be, but you were a co-chairman and prime minister along with George Papandreou, whose populist amok you joined and co-operator. Now, as for Mr Theodorakis' stress to participate in the government, to justify those who chose him as a utensil of choice, he tends to make him graphic. The evil of this case is that it has already been possible to prove that, apart from a moderate journalist - well paid, however - he is a very bad politician. In a short time he has managed to convince everyone that the vitally necessary political, economic and social modernisation is a very serious case to trust him in politely inadequate, such as Mr Theodorakis, whose mouth modernity sounds like a bad joke, when he has served the most anachronistic and intertwined forms of journalism, the ones the truth serves purposes and the report promotes debate. Today, once again, we hear that Costas Zouraris, a Member of the Independent Greeks, is far-reaching. There are also Sgurides and forty other two movements moving between the Central Right and even the Left. Ladies and gentlemen, so far the Greeks have known the French river, the river of Macedonia. We now have the German, the 'bottom' of the hotel and the media and the memorandum of interlocutory. Now, as far as Mr Antonis Samaras is concerned, unfortunately, no one can say, convincingly, that where the captains hung the tanks, the gypsies hang. His appearance tonight was pathetic. I had no doubt, however no one had. Madam President, the New Democracy colleagues may be missed here, since Mr Venizelos is missing from the Chamber, in order to enjoy him, to enjoy him, to enjoy him, when he exaggerates Kostas Karamanlis, but, if I judge from the previous debate - and as I hear about it - the vast majority of the Greeks are following this debate. And it means that the government that opens this issue is doing very well, because, as the Prime Minister said, they want the Greeks to be informed. They would not record the 65% television viewing machines at the previous meeting, Mrs Constantopoulou - and it was not the time of Constantopoul, it was the time of the Greek Parliament. So I had no doubt that Antonis Samaras would seek tonight to strengthen the climate of government instability and political uncertainty. It was clearly stated, a few 24 hours ago, by intervention through the BLOOMBERG. It appeared, he says, positive to form a government of national unity. No one asked him. He answered for himself. Well, we entered the spring season, no one is allowed to dream. Ladies and gentlemen, the most beautiful thing we have heard from Mr Mitsotakis. Kyriakos Mitsotakis said tonight: "What are you tormenting, since nothing will come of you?" Ladies and gentlemen, my friends, my fellow Members of the New Democracy, if nothing comes out, why will you vote on your own proposal? Are you kidding yourself when nothing's coming out? If nothing comes out - so said Kyriakos "nothing will come out," he says - then why are we here? I don't know if the memos were the medicine, as he said. Because I remember then, when Samaras had not yet found his light or had not lost his light - the real one, I mean - he said that this is a pharmacopoeia and it's not a medicine. Now there is a headline problem, Georgiadis chief, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Samaras. I don't know exactly what it is that actually prevails on the old party. But what I know very well is that, by talking about the truth, and in the committee that we are going to be making, we will have to get out of PASOK - you people will have to go out of PASOK - and say true or false that in December 2009, with a public statement, George Papandreou said that we do not need foreign aid in fourteen days from his public statement the former Prime Minister, Mr Papandreou, was in a reception - says - at the house of Stelios Zavos, a representative of the best man of the international speculator, Mr Soros, and a friend of the other speculators. And that's where the catastrophic course begins. These have been written in the foreign press. That's not the gossip. Shouldn't that be answered? You know, a few days later, it is published in the U.S. press that he organized a secret supper on how the Greek economy will be controlled, with guests again, Mr. Soros and his "poor" colleagues, the "savours" of Greece. And Greece becomes Europe's detonator. Mr. Theodorakis, where are you? Is that for the sprayed ones? Is that true? Is that a lie? We're seeing each other? The next: At the same time, therefore, the CDS is sold by the state banks, by the Post Bank, which ensured the attack that our country could accept on its economy. The Post Bank sells against $1.3 billion the CDS, which it purchased in August as against 900 million dollars. On the day following the sale of the CDS, the risk premiums of the Postal Treasury, are now beginning to increase the spreads. These CDS how much do you say they're being valued and sold? I answer you: EUR 26 billion. So the question we will be asked to investigate and answer is who won by betting on the country's bankruptcy, who sold, while they had agreed, the country's membership of the support mechanism. Greek justice has still not brought results. Mr. Georgiou, Mr. Ministers, lives there, huh? How irony! Mr. Georgiou lives there, still in ELSTAT, just like Mr. Stournaras! I read, Mr Pappas, that you will put - it says - a new committee: 'The Financial System Supervisory Authority'. Why don't you tell Mr. Stournara that he can't control over there what's going on? Was Mr Stournaras necessary? We've got so many stitches for his fur. The Bank of Greece therefore refuses to give evidence to Greek justice. Do you hear me? He refuses, he says! Ladies and gentlemen, I think that you all agree that what the Greek people have been asking for years and that has been a commitment to those who have been ruling since 2010 and, from now on, at the initiative of the current government of SYRIZA and Independent Greeks, it is only the first day of their governance. And this is yet another proof that the election announcements of the two parties that make up the current government are not a pre-election glove, like those of the two previous co-pilots. Sadly, former co-pilots, consistent with themselves, meant nothing. They simply nourished and filled their words with various meaningless words, aiming to pete the ears of voters and intercept votes. The debate has already taken place in public. All Greek women and all Greeks heard them. "When the people want it, since we promised it, we do not say no, but we do it," he says, "in a way that will never happen." So they're presenting sexist demands. Some people want to start from 1981, that is to say, never finish the work of exam with various procedural and other improper practices, and those who say that 'all together we have eaten them', that almost all the leaders of international bodies and European states should be invited, because they too are responsible. Of course, they overlook that, even so, indirectly but clearly, they recognize that the memorandum was destructive, while breaking through their garments that it saved Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the Independent Greeks refuse to join the opinion of some who easily say that the former Prime Minister canceled his own announcement before the 2012 elections to set up a committee of inquiry for the memorandum, because he wanted to cover some of Mr Samaras. I understand that this could have put him in a difficult position vis-à-vis PASOK, with which he cooperated and which, before the coup d'état, constantly denounced, saying that he would not become an accomplice with PASOK, that he would send Mr Venizelos to join Mr Tsohatzopoulos. But where are these? We now have applause from the New Democracy colleagues. You see, after the elections, he became a partner of power with PASOK, and perhaps that is why he canceled a basic commitment he made to the wounded people, who has been claiming to know the truth and the responsible people of the memoranda and the recourse to the International Monetary Fund. The questions are hard and the answers are even harder. Were ELSTAT's data falsified? What do you say, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? Together, didn't we sign a lot of questions? Were there any preconsultations and agreements not announced, agreements with Stro Khan? Are there any people who may have won the tragedy in the country? And, finally, this tsunami that hit the Greek people, did it benefit some people? And if so, who? These and many others need to be answered by this examination and should be answered maturely, sober and convincingly, but above all truly. These responses have been awaiting by the people for years. Unfortunately, their investigation did not even begin after the shocking statements by the former representative of Greece to the International Monetary Fund, Mr Roumeliotis, at the expense of the former Prime Minister, Mr Papandreou, although it was a first-class opportunity for the political world of Greece to show that he wanted to be very blurred in a very blur by taking on his own responsibilities for enlarging. So what has not happened earlier will be done today. The current government is taking the initiative to detect the path that has reached us here, that is, after five years of'saving' memorials, we still need a dose to survive. That is why, knowing that this is a common area, we are convinced that the setting up of this committee of inquiry, yes, it writes history and can finally write history and its results. That is why you saw Mr Venizelos and Mr Samaras so concerned. Because we, you know, as political faces and of course we will be past, we will be forgotten, but the truth must not be forgotten. Greece's progress towards the crisis and within it, as will be recorded by the committee, will remain in the national collective memory. I think we all understand the real dimension of the project. I sincerely regret those colleagues who have the opportunity to take part in this and do not. We have a list. And they heard it today by both Mr Venizelos and Mr Samaras. Can we have elections with 2% where to go? It's true. As far back as you go, you get to the exit. I grieve even for those who would like to be part of the effort, but have succumbed to party feasibility and discipline. Unfortunately, they wanted to voluntarily anger themselves. It was, ladies and gentlemen, an unconscious sight: Government officials Samara - Venizelou in the last 24 hours to fight communist battles against the establishment and conduct of a mandatory investigation. They may not have themselves for a long time, the value of their words, the appreciation of their party, patriotic feelings and a match to the popular problems they have never understood, but this does not mean that the country must go along with their own criteria. The vote today on the recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry into Crime Research which, voluntarily or unwittingly, took place at the expense of the Greeks, will eventually be judged by the people themselves, the people who have been wondering for years and how they have led home to the bottom, who have handed over national sovereignty and given the keys of the ministries to the representatives of the lenders. Let me say that. The PASOK boasts that it does not understand why the Committee of Inquiry will launch the investigation in 2010. It's simple. Because there is a loan contract providing that Greek loans are concluded from 2010 onwards under English law and that the State waives immunity over its sovereignty. Before 2010, Greece was a sovereign state with choices. The Greek debt was governed by Greek law. After 2010, the country was set up under an international commission and national sovereignty was lost. What do you, ladies and gentlemen of PASOK still not understand? Because, yes, you may try to confuse and blur the research, expanding the research in time. There is, therefore, a clear dividing line, which requires the exception. Greece - sovereign state, Greece - subspecies. What don't you understand? Should those who have tried to maintain Greece be put on the ground and apologise, and those who tried to maintain the sovereign state, to acquit it, Mr Samara? Nice joke we heard tonight. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no excuse nor can there be any maximalist intentions for the committee not to be set up and to function immediately. The national debt and the reasons for the unthinkable height that has arrived is a vital matter for the country today, but also for its future. I do not believe that there is even a reasonable person who believes that our country has arrived in this situation without being the fault of anyone. The thieves, the crooks and the abusers nobody wants them. Neither Greek nor our European partners. In particular, the latter appear to be particularly persuasive to taking measures against those suspected of contributing to the current situation. I therefore do not understand where the objections and misinterpretations arise, as I do not understand why they disagree with the Committee on Budgetary Control. Do they disagree with the work he's done? Do they disagree with her operative cause? Anyone who disagrees, as he has the right, may explain to us what exactly disagrees and the reasons he disagrees, not on the grounds of the formula "why you did not invite me with a formal challenge and took me on the phone". Although things are clear, it seems that the establishment of the committee has dismantled some and several have created triumphs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a historic moment. I feel - and not just myself, but all the Greek people - that after the conclusion of this committee, nothing will be the same in the country. First of all, we will give the message that the Greek Parliament is aware of this. The destruction of society has causes and responsible ones. These are being investigated, these will be revealed and those who are guilty, what more natural? Yeah, they'll be punished. Secondly, that Members of Parliament are doing the very least expected of them, having the responsibility of controlling each government - present and past - and carrying out this control. Thirdly, that they are investigating errors and errors, so as not to allow them to be repeated again in the future. And fourthly, the Greek people's sense of law will be restored. Is there any colleague who disagrees with this? I think not. Is there any colleague who wants to prevent the uncovering of the causes and responsibilities of political persons for the greatest disaster the country has suffered since 1922? I think not. Is there anyone who believes that the argument that there are responsibilities in the proceedings before 2010, starting in 1981, has been discharged of the responsibilities of the period and from that date? Do not worry, then, that all the periods will be checked and any responsibilities will be attributed and the facts will be revealed. Ladies and gentlemen, let us bear in mind that with our vote everyone can think of "and of a good apology" towards Greek women and Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u304	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaopoulos. Parliamentary spokesman for the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas. Previously, let me make two announcements to this House. I announce to you No 1413/3-4-2015 document by the President of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn, according to which the Deputy Parliamentary Representative is appointed as the MEP at Attikis Kassidiaris. I am also announcing Ms Dora Bakoyannis's number 1412/3-4-2015 document, which asks for permission from the plenary session to be held abroad for personal reasons from Monday 6 to Thursday 9 April 2015. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Madam President. For the time economy and for me to contribute to the debate, I will try to be as brief and essential as possible. First of all, the permanent position of the Greek nationalists, the fixed position of the Golden Dawn, a political position, but at the same time completely logical, is that the memorandum is the misfortune of the Greek people, the memorandum is the betrayal of the Greek people, the memorandum is an ethnoic and this is an obvious truth. So, by listening to the voice of reason, but also of national interest from 2010 until today, the Memorandum is being fought as a genuine antimony of reversal and hope. He is frankly fighting it, fighting it with arguments, fighting it not for reasons of communication or for election purposes. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Mrs DESPOINA HARALAMPIDOU, occupys the President-in-Office of the Council.]] The reality shows that the debt and the consequences of the memorandum are unthinkable, unbearable and burdensome. Any state in the world under these conditions could not survive and have any future, much more Greece, which here the implementation of the memorandum operates as a global experiment in the riding and slavery of an entire people, an experiment of globalisation and the new order of things that the rulers of the political and economic power of the planet, political and economic oligarchy, the international masters of money and capitalism are exalting. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, says Greece of the memorandum cannot survive. A Greece with a memorandum has no future, much more Greece of 2015, which is a Greece that calms within the four-month extension of its intensive memorandum. Unfortunately, the work of this committee will also be slashed into the scandalous law on the responsibility of Ministers, the law of Mr Venizelos, which acquits a priori offences that any politician is committing during his term of office. This scandalous law guarantees the irresponsible not of the supreme ruler, but the irresponsibility of the Prime Minister and of the Ministers, a law which actually says that a citizen can be in prison for a traffic offence, while a Prime Minister cannot be prosecuted for the ultimate treason. This is the law on the responsibility of the Ministers. This is the great truth that the Greek people know about and none of the big - or former - and co-responsible parties cannot or does not want to admit - that the choices - because this expression of 'options' has also been heard - the deliberately destructive choices, namely the signing of the memorandum, have been and are an act of last betrayal. In particular, these options were: the removal of rights and the transfer of national sovereignty, the binding and connection of the memorandum to English law and the provision of judicial assistance and resolution of disputes by the courts of Luxembourg, the "washing room" of Europe's practically fleece, the geometric growth of the debt with the memorandum, the delivery of the country's to the mountainous mountains of the memorandum, the collapse of the social fabric, the collapse of social cohesion and the social state, the sale of national wealth, the sale of businesses and the neo-liberal sectors of an independent state, such as transport, ports, health, and also the surrender of the Greek people's right to legislate here, through its representatives, not to have the freedom to legislate on it, but to legislate others on it, to legislate on the representatives of the International Monetary Fund. The lenders - we've lived and lived - legislate by e-mail and enforce their conditions by e-mail. Creditors approve or reject by e-mail - and here we can also talk about e-mail Hardouvelis and e-mail Varoufakis. Finally, the Memorandum means impoverishment of the Greek people, as millions of unemployed, young people and the poor have become poorer and the rich have become richer. So if all that I have said is not acts of last treason, then what else can it mean and be the last betrayal? If the last treason is not criminalised, then what can be criminalised? Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the committee of inquiry for which the debate is being concluded today, I would stress that, in our view, it will not be a committee of inquiry which will examine the substance of the case and the range of the responsibilities of the parties and the political leaders that have destroyed the country, but will be a committee - 'cushion' of the government for purely communication reasons. Basically, it will be the sight that a government will offer rather than the bread that the Greek people need, a bread that they do not want or cannot - that we will see then - give the new government. So this government is also a Memorandum of Understanding. The Minister for Finance, Mr Varoufakis, confessed today when she promised Mrs Lagard that Greece would pay her obligations in the international community. So, memorials forever, that's what the Minister said. The Government has requested an extension of the loan contract. What does that mean? It means an extension of the memorandum. It is mentioned as a loan contract and not a memorandum. This is the Memorandum, as you say, gentlemen of the Government. So today too - to be fair - a government that betrays the desires of the people for justice and freedom. The current government, unfortunately, continues the work of George Papandreou, who - is a common secret, which Stros Khan himself revealed - has put the country, using the methods he has put it, into the International Monetary Fund. So the government and its communication staff continue their policy of fear, which the now shrinking Samaras and its advisers had made its flag. What does it mean to fear? We're being told about the euro. They're dedicating the euro to us. Who? These left-wingers themselves, the pillars - supposedly - of social justice, say right and left-wing Europeans. They declare consistent Europeans and consistent in their international economic and other obligations. So it is essentially the left-wing ones who implement their policy that the state has a continuity. And indeed, this anti-linguistic state, the state that depends on the foreign factor, has all the time. It is the same cliff state and "sinner" state of Memorial deportation from 1974 to today. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people just two months ago did not vote for Samara's mutation, did not vote for the continuation of the memorandum. The Greek people voted for the break, voted for what you had been feeding them. What did you feed him? The abolition of the memorandum with an article, which is consistently supported by the Golden Dawn. What does Golden Dawn support? It supports the abolition of the memorandum and the recovery of national and popular sovereignty and independence. That means abolishing the Memorandum. So you dare not, gentlemen, stand firm in your election announcements. You dare not, in essence, make a referendum with the question 'yes in the memorandum or not'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u306	Mr. Pappa, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u307	I shall conclude, Madam President. Do you have another policy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u308	Why other politics? What do you mean? Six minutes is the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u309	I think Mrs Konstantopoulou left twelve minutes instead of ten and then, otherwise, she let twenty-four talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u310	I said to finish, I didn't cut you off. I said make sure you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u311	Thank you very much. I'll be done. Finally, I would like to ask: is this examination going to consider in depth the responsibilities for how the country was taken over by the right and left, how did PASOK and the New Democracy become the country, how did we come to a country that has the image of an athletic protectorate? This is what the Greek people expect, that's what the world expects. What else is the world waiting for? The world is waiting for the nemesis and the cleansing. Know what: Nemesis and clearance can only bring a genuine popular and national state and not an unholy alliance of government interests. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of Inquiry will unfortunately be like an ETUC. How is a SAD in the “sinner” and multipatient public? That's what's gonna be like. So, you want to cover up something, you want to blur the water? Create an ETA. You want to cover up some things? Create an exam. Same thing. You want to mock your fans, your voters? Do you want to make them forget about what you were calling an election? Create an ETA. Give spectacles, since you can't give bread. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that we, the people - this title we give to the Golden Dawn fighters, to the Members of the Golden Dawn - are not oppositioning the opposition, we are not talking with the 'voodoos' in mind, we do not have good relations either with the local oligarchy or with the international oligarchy, i.e. we are not dependent on anyone and nothing. We are no longer dependent on the criminalisation of our political speech. We are not touched by Samaras and Venizelos, this procedural abortion of the case "Golden Dawn". This thing doesn't bind us, it doesn't scare us and it doesn't prevent us from doing what we've always done: telling us the truth. So we are talking about the truth, whether collectively or in this Chamber or legally. What we do, the voice of truth, is what gives us power to the world. The truth is one: Examination is done for communication reasons. It's a trick. That truth, unfortunately, hurts. It is one truth that the Greek people and you of this Greek people cannot feed him spoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr. Pappa. MEP Niki Kerameau seeks permission from abroad from 20 to 23 April. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u313	The House approved the requested permission. MEP Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou asks for a transfer permit to Istanbul from Monday, April 13th to Friday, 18th. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u314	The House approved the requested permission. MEP Kozanis Georgios Kasapidis requests a two-day absence abroad for his transition to France from 22 April 2015 to 23 April 2015. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u315	The House approved the requested permission. The last speaker of today's plenary is Mrs Antigone Lyberakis, Party's Parliamentary Representative, Potami.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u316	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will not comment on the poisonous malignancies or emetic flattery of Mr Nikolaopoulos. I express my full support for SYRIZA's friends and friends, because I understand that accepting his sympathy is far more difficult than accepting his arrows. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats)]] I do not, because I believe that we have a serious issue to deal with, and the House today is calling us to decide whether we should set up a committee of inquiry on the memorandums. I would like to say immediately that there are two very good reasons for such a committee and a condition. The first reason is that we really need to close down a chapter that hurt us, it divided us, in order to return a page. And in order to do this, we need to get rid of last night. The second reason is that, to have a new course, after we turn the page, we have to make sure that we do not make the same mistakes and, if we don't, it is very likely to repeat them. Now, the essential condition is that the process through which this debate will be conducted on what has happened and what has not happened, what has been right and what has been wrong, should avoid a new division. That is to say, it must be done calmly, fairly and in a manner that ensures that half of Greece does not put the other half to the margin, because in the critical days we live there is no excess and everyone needs to be exploited. So basically we want her to be sober and brave exercise of self-awareness, not for psychotherapy, but so that we can find a collective way out. This self-awareness was found by other countries, very different from each other. South Africa found it, when it had to wash away forty years of apartheid and set up the Committee on Truth and Reconciliation in order to heal wounds. Interestingly, he managed and set up a new democracy - a democracy, without the "new" capital - without even marginalising the old potentials, and that is a lesson of interest. [[The President-in-Office takes over here, Mr ZOI KONSTANTOPOUOU,]] Iceland in 2010, closer to us, after this terrible foulness of the excessive expansion of the banking system that went bankrupt and went bankrupt, made a Committee of Criminal Straights, but at the same time the new government, which had a Prime Minister - perhaps not at all chance - decided to make a committee to explain the reasons for this terrible crisis. In this committee, they ended up putting only three people: a virtue, the Citizens' Counselor and a new university, economist at an American university, in Princeton, which would be as if we had Mr. Pikramenos, Mrs. Spanos or Mr. Diamandouros, and one of these "negative" and the "negligent" scientists from abroad who have come to the Greek universities and tried to get rid of them a little unspoken by Mr. Baltas. However, the interest in these very different countries is that they have managed, through a spirit of bravery, to leave the debris behind, to break the mold of eternal melancholy and to take a step forward. We need that, too. We are a party that did not exist at the beginning of the crisis, there was no prior to the crisis, there was no greater part of the crisis, and we have every interest in looking into this period in depth, learning from the crisis and, finally, stopping putting the problems under the carpet. This procedure could have been very repressive if it were not exclusively in the hands of the parties, who tend to engage in party competition, if it did not consider entering the memorandum as a disaster which fell in a country which was normal, if it were understood in the text of the committee's recommendation that the economic collapse was preceded by the Memorandum rather than the return. In practice, therefore, the process, the subject matter and the formation are the ideal one. However, we believe that interesting things could come out of this committee. We are not interested in examining the past in terms of a backward prosecutor. We are, however, interested in understanding how other countries, which have entered a programme after us, have not only come out, but also had smaller losses. Let me just tell you that Ireland during the programme increased its GDP by 4.6% and Portugal, which had a very difficult programme, reduced it by 4.4%. We five years later lost 25%. This question cannot be answered easily by fireworks. As far as we are concerned, we will do everything we can in this committee of inquiry to help give substantial answers, although we are concerned, we suspect that, despite the fact that we will do our utmost - and that is why you can be sure and sure - we risk repeating the known fireworks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u317	Thank you to Mrs Lyberakis, Parliamentary Representative of the River. There has been a parliamentary representative who has not spoken. It is Mr. Koutsoukos from PASOK who promised to facilitate and speak for three minutes. Is that so, Mr. Kutsuko?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u318	I shall also be in charge of the sitting of this House for a few minutes, Madam President. Please, I'm coming back to where I started before. The time will be 3.00 p.m. I am not going to speak to any of the Members of this House, and I do not want to take the sin that it is my fault with two or three minutes that I am going to speak. I say, however, that we need to better plan meetings. I now come to my brief speech. We have said this with our rapporteur, Mr Loverdos, and the President of PASOK, Mr Venizelos, said that this committee is welcome, because we have always spoken with the language of truth, so we are not afraid of the truth. I wish that what the majority rapporteur, Mr Mitropoulos, said, will be done, and the future's historian, to pay homage to this committee. I fear that it will not be done for just two simple reasons: Firstly, because one condition is that we should see the reasons for the memorandum. There is a clear political feasibility here on the part of the majority. This is not the joke about the Columbus egg if the crisis brought about the memorandum or the memorandum brought the crisis. The facts are well known. In 2009, the country had a specific problem. This will prove to be the case, since the majority cannot avoid the debate, from the decisions of the European Statistical Office, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, the European Commission, from the institutions, that is to say, those with whom the government is talking today. My point of view was that I listened to political representatives of SYRIZA in the morning, who told us what interest the Aloskouf census would have had in the public finances case. The government does not hear it. I have heard Mr Friend, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, telling us about the consequences of the Olympic Games. The government does not hear it - perhaps after Mr Tsipras' special meeting with Mrs Aggelopoulos has also given up. The second condition, ladies and gentlemen, is that we should discuss what is going on, because the country did not come out of the memorandum, because there was the Eurogroup decision, which we made two months to interpret, because we went to an irregular extension of the main financial convention for four months, which the government does not want to bring to Parliament in order not to put its Members in dilemma and finally what it will sign in June. If these two conditions are not met, we cannot say that the history of the future will give us objectivity. I, ladies and gentlemen, am afraid, with what I have heard today, that there is an intention of restoring conspiracy theories, that there are some bad people here who wanted to torture the place, reintroducing the theories that some were drunk to benefit themselves, and I regret that I have heard the Prime Minister say so in some way, showing up to a public prosecutor. We also have a reintroduction of conspiracy theories against the Papandreou government by late supporters of Mr Papandreou, namely those who accused him of being Pinochet. I have also recently heard the theory of Karamanlis reinstatement, by means of his acquittal by the committee of inquiry, which we have been analysed here by the Parliamentary spokesman for the ANELs. We want to state - and this is the end of my brief speech, Madam President, which, if you remove the point of order, was within the time for which I have committed myself - that the Commission's dynamics will not be able to avoid it, because there are the real facts that are spoken and the truth will shine and be captured. It is a historic responsibility for all of us to reflect the truth so that the Greek people know how far the country has arrived and how it will go from now on, who have paid the costs to stand up and who will take responsibility for what will happen from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u319	You're just making me mention some evidence... [[Noise - protests from the ward of PASOK]] They were few speakers who respected the time. Most speakers have gone far beyond time. So, Mr Kutsuko, when you wish for a better organization, you should also consult the Members of your party and your Chief. Mr. Loverdos from the ten minutes he was entitled to speak twenty-one and fifty-two seconds, and Mr. Venizelos from the fifteen minutes he was entitled to speak thirty minutes and thirty-one seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, Members Efstathias Georgopoulos - Saltari seeks permission from absence abroad, for the period 18-4-2015 to 23-4-2015, for family reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u320	The House approved the requested permission. At this point, with the consent of the House, I declare that the debate on the proposal for a committee of inquiry is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, do you consent to interrupt the roll-call vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u321	The debate on the proposal presented by the Prime Minister and President of the Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left, Alexis Tsipras, and a hundred and forty-eight Members of his party, and the President of the Group of Independent Greeks Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Kammenos and twelve Members of his party, for the establishment of a committee of inquiry, "for Greece to be subject to the Memorandum and supervision regime and any other issue relating to the implementation and implementation of the memorandums, has been completed. It will be followed by a roll-call vote, which will be held in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. Referring to the proposal for a Committee of Inquiry shall vote 'THE'. Not accepting the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry shall vote 'OH'. Refusing votes shall declare ‘APPROVAL’. I would also like to inform you that the Bureau has, in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, received letters from Members of Parliament from outside on a mission from Parliament, to which they give us their votes. These votes are taken into account in the following count. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of Parliament Mr Panagiota Dricelis from SYRIZA and the Secretary of Parliament Mr Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy are on the list. Before the roll-call vote begins, we interrupt, as the Rules of Procedure provide, for ten (10') minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u322	I suggest we start reading the list. We had a five-and-a-half-minute break and not ten, but at least we did not make the virtual interruption of the president who pretended to be changing position as it was in the previous period. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u323	Is there someone or a colleague who didn't hear his name or her name? Nobody. The letters, which were sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, are recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u324	Ladies and gentlemen, please, once again, when letters are sent from abroad by invoking a foreign mission, Athens should not be entered as a place of mission. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that my fellow Members Christos Karayannis Karagianides and Konstantinos Zouraris will not be present in today's roll-call vote and know by letter that, if they were present, they would vote 'NAI'. These letters, which express the intention of voting, shall be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but shall not be counted on the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u325	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the lady and the electorate to count the votes and to export the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u326	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. [[Photo taken by protocol p. 377a]] A total of 250 Members voted. In favour of the proposal, i.e. 'NAI', 156 Members voted. [[Applause]] In other words, 72 Members voted against the motion, i.e. 'Notice'. They have voted for 22 Members, in accordance with the following roll-call protocol:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u327	Therefore, the proposal tabled by the Prime Minister and President of the Group of the Radical Left coalition, Alexis Tsipras, and a hundred and forty-eight Members of his party and the President of the Group of Independent Greeks Mr Panagiotis Kammenos and twelve MPs of his party, to set up a committee of inquiry, "for Greece's subject to the memorandum regime and surveillance and on any other matter relating to the implementation and implementation of the memorandums" was accepted by a majority of them. Don't go because we have to decide on the composition and the deadline. My proposal is, according to the method followed by all the committees in Parliament, that this committee should be composed of seventeen members representing, in proportion to their power, all the groups and ensuring that there is at least one MEP from each parliamentary group. In this way we have set up the Committee of the Regions, the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, the Committee on Equality and so on. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u328	The House unanimously agrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u329	What about alternates, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u330	This is done ad hoc. It goes without saying that Members may be replaced by the procedure laid down for committees. I also propose that the deadline for the completion of the work of the committee and the presentation of its findings, given the subject matter, which is very serious, should be at least until 6 October 2015, i.e. for a six-month period. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u331	The House agrees. This time limit may be requested to be extended if necessary. If not necessary, the finding may be submitted earlier. In the opinion of the President, at least six months are needed to carry out the work of the Committee of Inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u332	The House unanimously granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the proposal for a Committee of Inquiry into Greece's subjection to the memorandum and surveillance regime and on any other matter relating to the implementation and implementation of the memorandums has been concluded. I hope that we will have a good pass on to those colleagues who are not members of Parliament's committees. The plenary will meet again after Easter. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-04-06-S1-commons.u333	With the consent of the House at 3.00 p.m. the sitting is closed.
