ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Substantial land and other provisions'. The bill was discussed and passed at the beginning of yesterday. Today's session will discuss the articles and amendments of the bill as a unity. The procedure will be as follows: the rapporteurs and the special speakers will first speak on the articles and amendments, then the remaining speakers on the principle, who will also speak on the articles and the amendments and then take the floor on the articles and amendments. The Minister has the floor for some legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on Production and Trade, I have stressed the amendments that, of course, the government, in the exceptional circumstances that we are experiencing today, must have the right to legislate and have the legislative initiative at any time. So there I promised that in plenary, the ministerial amendments will only be accepted if the ministers who introduce the amendments themselves come and support them. So that still applies today. From that point on, because since yesterday's debate and vote - at least for the parties following the European process - the unanimous decision to support this draft law in principle has raised a great deal of issues which will be answered when the relevant debate is held on an article. But there will also be legislative improvements to continue, I would say, this spirit that emerged from yesterday's vote and from the debate. I will only dwell on a case that has emerged from many parties and concerns the part that has to do with pesticides. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter which concerns us. This is a bomb in the agronomous shops. Today there is no institutional framework for dealing with this problem. The practice that we are bringing to this order, adopts and implements all of Europe. However, in consultation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs we will go to comprehensive regulation of the matter, including this provision. The picture that we have today is filled with lakes and rivers with preparations of this kind, does not honor us as a country and is inappropriate in a European country. This particular text will therefore be withdrawn immediately and certainly, as I said before, there will be a debate on the subject with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. And, of course, the whole particular context will have to be dealt with in its entirety. I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u3	Will the text or article be withdrawn, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u4	Will the entire article be withdrawn, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u5	That particular verse.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u6	Tell us what article it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u7	I am referring to Article 18(4). In particular, from the words ‘Inappropriate plant protection products...’ to the words ‘the markets for agricultural products sent to them’. There is a whole paragraph that is removed. The rest of us will talk later, because there are too many issues that at least I, in my position in an article, will raise.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u8	Madam President, may I ask a very brief question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u9	You have the floor, Mrs Manolakou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u10	Mr Minister, you have said about the amendments. We ask you, will you bring in another amendment until the debate is over?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u11	Madam President, I too would like to address a question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u12	You have the floor, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u13	Minister, because you are here and you will make some improvements, we put you yesterday - both the rapporteur for the Democratic Integration and Members, but also myself as a parliamentary representative and of course Members of other groups - on the issue of Article 19(5). We have put this right to you, and we want an answer and now, because it is not just about the specific article. This is a change which you have made and has not been discussed in committee. And after the end of the debate in the committees, you have added the phrase, "...until approval of the management plans, it will take place on the basis of the May 2015 Minister's decision." We think there's an effort going on. We have doubts that this may be the case. That is why we want your answer, we want your documentation on this matter, that a legal basis can be created for the May 2015 decision. Because, as you have seen, we have all the goodwill in this bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u14	That's not a question, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u15	It's a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u16	Yes, but there are no questions to the Minister. Let the time flow and you'll tell your place.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u17	Madam President, as a parliamentary representative I ask the Minister a question now that the procedure begins, as to whether he will withdraw this paragraph, so as to clarify our position along the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u18	Madam President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you don't have to answer now. Let's not consume time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u20	Wait a minute, Madam President. Substantial changes, other than the one I mentioned, will not be made. I will explain and reply to your question during the debate. As to whether or not we will bring amendments as the Ministry of Rural Development, when the debate on this subject begins then I shall reply to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u21	So we start with the circle of rapporteurs and special speakers with eight minutes of speaking time. Mr Arachovite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the draft law was voted on: 'Great land and other provisions' in the first place with great consensus. That is a fact that we should welcome. This demonstrates that a number of problems in the primary sector that have accumulated and recur. In my dentistry, however, I would like to focus on a number of articles, which yesterday sounded very critical and thoughtful. First of all, we have just heard the Minister who referred to the withdrawal of Article 18(4), which has to do with plant protection products whose contractual expiry date has elapsed. It's a real problem. It is a problem that is present, which is faced with trade in plant protection products, that is dealt with by cooperative organisations active in marketing, as is the case with the MRLs, which have tacosy preparations. And since one year there was no forest problem, there was no need to be a homicide, and these preparations remained. It is therefore a real problem and it is a fact that it needs - as I said in the committee - better processing. However, the problem remains and must somehow be resolved. Relative to the resources of the EFFs: With regard to the income earned by Otta I from the renting of pastures as the right to grazing: The money paid by farmers for the use of pastures was also resources for Otta, but at the same time they had a rewarding character, which was already recorded in Law 4264 and, of course, in earlier legislation. In the legislations, there was always a need for this resource to be allocated - 'partially', said the original legislation, '4264' - meant not all - to improve the pastures, infrastructures, to preserve the pastures and to protect the environment for the benefit of farmers and the development of livestock farming. In practice, of course, we all know that these revenues, except for the few cases of certain municipalities, were never made available for the purpose described and defined by law. Also, the legislative improvements met a number of requests from farmers, mainly indigenous breeds, as well as the procedure for the auctioning of areas that were exceeding grade 1 in LATVs. I'm going into some articles in Chapter 2: Article 2 amends Law 4056/2012 in several respects. It is a fact that this law was a good attempt to simplify the licensing procedures for statistic installations. However, serious problems arise in its implementation. Most of these regulations are currently being introduced, while at the same time the necessary extensions are being made to implement them in practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u23	Article 12 is what you say. Because you said Article 2.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u24	I'm sorry. I am referring to Rule 12. At the same time, there is an overriding problem among people who are involved in European programmes, young farmers, improvement plans and organic livestock, who were in danger of losing their subsidies immediately because of a failure to issue the authorisation. You are well aware that the quarter provided for by the filing of the file and the issue of the provisional licence on the same day until the delivery of the final licence, in most cases, had elapsed, in which case there was a risk of the immediate sealing of the barn. In particular, of course, by regulating the issue of a conservation permit in or near residential areas, thousands of farmers throughout Greece, from Laconia to Florina, can now continue to carry out their activities without the immediate risk of sealing their plant. There are, of course, specific conditions and limits for cases in the amended Article 17A of the Treaty. 4056. Article 13 on ELGA's issues brings solutions to chronic requests from both producers by restoring the sense of law and to the demands of the administration and workers in the organisation. It is clear that the ELGA, as an organisation, is of the particular nature of its object, which is compensation for natural disasters, does not make sense to be governed by an operating regulation with a model similar to any other organisation. Due to the specificity and asphalt time limits of the ELGA correspondents to record losses on holdings and to the more efficient functioning of the organisation and the faster service of producers, they are now regulated to the most favourable issues relating to the compensation of correspondents. Monthly compensation limits shall be abolished, while maintaining the limits of compensation per declaration or file or assessment. Finally, the ceiling for the insurance contribution that it had created inequality between producers in the same sector or even in different sectors is abolished. This is also a constant request from the small and medium-sized farmers in the country. In this article, where criticism was made at the point where the words 'per county' were deleted, the service points out that the determination of average production, depending on statistical findings, could be reflected either at the county level, when the variability of yields between the prefectures is high - mountainous, disadvantaged and low in the same prefecture - or at country level, when the variability of yields between the prefectures is small. Therefore, it does not actually affect the premium to be paid by the producer, since the statistical analysis requires that the average production be differentiated. On Article 16, which concerns the possibility of plant propagating material directly from the producer from countries of the European Union. Here we are dealing with the constitutional conditions of the Union. When a plant multiplier material is certified in a European Union country, it can be imported freely into our country from the European Treaties. In order to reduce any objections, however, Article 16 states: ‘A decision of the Minister for Rural Development and Food, the procedures for carrying out the checks required shall be laid down in accordance with the legislation in force’. There is therefore no question of protecting Greek agriculture from suspected imports or of compliance with European conditions. Finally, with the legislative improvements, which have in its final form brought about by the draft law, there is now a guaranteed and the maximum possible consensus of the bodies, such as GEOTE in Article 9, on the participation of a representative of the committees set out in Article 9, as well as of the livestock operators in the other articles, as analysed. I therefore believe that the articles should also have maximum acceptance, as was the case at the outset. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr Arachovitis, and respect for the time. Mrs Fotini Arabatzis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Please, I would also like to use the time of my dentistry. Ladies and gentlemen, I will say and will repeat that we are discussing today a bill that was, of course, in terms of the chapter on pasture, existing and adopted in May 2014, by the previous government. It is a bill that was smuggled, it became ironic and it was voted down. By who? Of you who are presently introducing it into strings and organs. This is not the first time - nor the last I imagine - of the government's political disrepute. It is a bill - stitching and copying in the wrapping of a supposed visionary approach. Minister, I listened with great interest to all these fine words you said yesterday in your report. You should, of course, have said it a year and a half ago, when the same bill was passed, v. 4264/2014, by our own government. Then, of course, you were 'in the bars of the opposition' and you called the forest dust what you today call 'a visionary, ecological and productive approach to legislation'. You said yesterday that the bill is the parallel programme in the field of rural development. It is now coming with the parallel programs! Usually every time we hear such splendid expressions, it follows some straddle, such as the one you reserved for us on 14 August with the signature of the third memorandum and, of course, with their next painful bills at a time and harder prerequisites. They are, of course, fine words - and the truth is that such a political transformation and such retrospective acceptance of our actions, I did not expect it from you - with a capitalist and very much - unfortunately a cost difference. The unjust lost time, Minister. Because instead of bills and ideas reports, you had to bring a simple distribution plan and work into practice. There was a bill. Our problem - to tell you again, because it was national and now, as a government, I mean, with national approaches, but I fear very much - was the lack of the legal framework on the definition and implementation of this legal framework in practice. We've solved your law. We left the application to you and left it because you "feed" to rule. So for him, you have huge responsibilities in your unjustified lost time. You've beaten him up unnecessarily. All bodies certified this at the hearing. We were ringing your bell and you assured us otherwise. And you are now coming, today, and you are actually introducing the loss of the lost, valuable opportunity for Greek livestock farming for the 2014-2020 programming period. And this year's distribution instead of the planned household will become a glue, finally applying the May's ministerial decision, the one that, as I said yesterday and I will not get tired of saying it, divides according to giving the farmers to a, b, c category. So, as far as the celebrities are concerned, your Article 19 provision - which you did not have the courage to support - asked you, as you remember, on several occasions in the committee, if it applies as a legislative improvement to what was released, without officiality and without respect for parliamentary procedures, as a legislative improvement and you said absolutely nothing. Today we see it embedded in the text. Very nice parliamentary control! And I insist on this joint ministerial decision - but I did not get - how many acres per animal unit the central Macedonia, Epirus, Crete, Thessaly. It is very essential, Minister, since we have today 1 December, and of course neither a point of order for payment, nor a statement of provisional rights, and you have to tell us exactly what is going to happen in practice. I have also often heard you say, Minister, to build a political alibi - the rapporteurs and some speakers have said so - that, before this visionary bill, we had to give pastures from Serres to Yannina, from Larissa to Crete and tourabalin. Sure. That was exactly the problem we solved. So the multitude of pastures resulting from the previous definition has solved your hands since this year. You wouldn't need such alchemys, which I fear you will resort to, when our farmers are faced with the enormous shortages in one region and with excess pastures in the other. So don't make your responsibility alibi! You also said that the bill reduces production costs. Of course, n. 4264/2014 ensured - if it were to be applied fundamentally - a natural and inexpensive pasture for the livestock of the farmer on the one hand and an uninterrupted flow of subsidies without fines on the other. We said what the result was, 26% increased funds for livestock farming. In a way, you took care of them yesterday, Minister. We would remind you that this negotiation to increase livestock funds was made by the previous government because of this very important definition. Only, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the cost of production is concerned, do not have to pay to date farmers and farmers the necessary 'hot' money, which has not even heard an apology. So you bring the livestock world with much higher prices for its animal feed now in December - if you do not want to pay - than would be guaranteed in October if the subsidies were paid on time. And it is true that you are talking about reducing production costs when your own government overnight increased VAT on agricultural supplies, fertilisers, agricultural services from 13% to 23%. I am going to my remarks on the articles. We're coming to Article 4. I said it repeatedly yesterday and to the committee that there is our absolute disagreement, which reveals your Ministry's unprecedented delay to prepare for the benefit of the rural world the management plans for grazing until January 2017, as we had set, as we had foreseen. Their transition to January 2019 marks the definitive loss of the extra eligible areas that we had achieved for this programming period. Minister, if we were ready today with the most eligible areas in 2016, we would have finally multiplyed once in 2017 and 2019, we would have come for further multiplying to reach the famous 50 million you said yesterday in your speech. As far as the expenditure for the management plans is concerned, we have expressed our strong disagreement with the fact that this draft law passes on the cost of drawing up the management plans for grazing, which we had secured from the resources of the Rural Development Programme in the regions. We had said that the cost actually passed on to the farmer himself. You have, of course, proceeded with the partial adoption of our proposal with the relevant legislative improvement that you have brought, accepting that the expenditure on the preparation and implementation of these grazing plans will also be covered by the Agricultural Development Programme and the resources of the Agricultural and Cattle Fund. We ask you to accept the whole of our proposal by deleting this section, namely that there will be some cover from the end of farmers. As far as the rights of use of grazing are concerned, I would like you, Minister, to clarify why you are granting us management plans in the regions. Do you consider that the municipalities and livestock organisations have not been able to respond? We would like you to analyse it to us. It is in the positive direction that you give priority to the rights of use to indigenous, threatened with extinction, breeds of agricultural animals, in order to protect the local breeds of animals which, unfortunately, have not been given the necessary attention in the past. Indeed, on the New Democracy side, we have asked for their representative to come to the hearing. We see that this has been accepted. With regard to the renting of the right to use grazing, Mr Minister, I have repeatedly said that you must commit yourself to legislating on the minimum grazing fee so that farmers do not find themselves in surprises with excessive grazing prices. I would also like to comment on the report by the Scientific Committee, which states: 'The text of the proposed provision, even by way of indication, should be set out on the basis of which criteria should be laid down'. As far as the case is concerned, Minister, the fact that the municipalities leave the game of collection of these resources and the region is responsible, I think you should take seriously into account the fact that this money was important resources - particularly small and regional mountainous municipalities - which supported local development and livestock farming. Let us not fool ourselves, the farmer and the farmer always have the mayor from whom he calls for basic infrastructure and not the most remote region. In the case of livestock establishments, a further extension of the deadline laid down in Article 14 for the authorisation of livestock establishments is given, which shows that the law that we passed in 2012 and which you were voting against at the time was in the right direction. Minister, I would like some clarification, which I have not received, about livestock facilities in settlements. These have a further illegality. They are illegal for the additional reason of the proximity of distance in residential areas. You should specify whether the permits granted to the inner or nearby settlements are permanent, for the sake of life, because, if it is, we cannot prolong the outside settlements and legalise them within settlements. Also, the most important question - and that is where the point is, because these people do not have arbitrary buildings there, are trying to help their farms - is why you do not give incentives to relocate those who are inside settlements. There are concrete actions under the Rural Development Programme. We asked you again to do so at committee meetings. As far as the amendments to the ELGA are concerned, I said that they are codification amendments. In Article 13, paragraph 3 - and I will repeat that - there is a flagrant injustice that is promoted by the abolition of the word 'per county'. I have pointed out twice that the average output per region or even across the territory may be higher than that at the county level. Thus, counties with small production will pay a proportionally higher premium and those with smaller outputs. We therefore insist that the words 'per county' remain. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, there are too many articles and I ask for your understanding. As far as active protection is concerned, we have said so, Mr Minister, and in committee. We want an answer to the EUR 45 million funds for the seventeen actions of the Rural Development Programme that we achieved in the previous CAP, which provided for such preventive measures against non-insured risks. For example, 100% of the funding was provided for the farmer to cover his corn beans around - around electricity - so that wild boars and bears are not eaten, because if they are eaten, they are not compensated by the current insurance scheme. Are you going to make use of these EUR 45 million in this direction? We referred to the extension of the use of real estate and the operation of professional schools. We did it. It's in the right direction. I would stress that the School of Nemea has not worked. Regarding the National Dead Animal Collection and Management Program, it was our law. We had secured a million euros, while you moved it and "grab" the farmers again. Remove the provision that says that the fee will be charged by farmers. As far as multiplier material is concerned, Minister, it may seem that the removal of the TYPES opinion is an attempt to reduce bureaucracy, but this committee has a strong and comprehensive opinion on these issues. So you remove the possibility of this valuable opinion and leave all responsibilities and decisions to you. You legalise the acquisition of propagating material of cultivated plant species by other Member States to the natural and legal persons of the registry without the necessary marketing authorisation. We are still saying, Minister, that this poses many dangers and raises questions which we have discussed in detail in committee. Who will monitor the quality of urban and uncontrolled multiplier movements? For example, we are in Serres and are bordering Bulgaria and Romania. As you can see, there multiplier material for mutants can be imported, which the farmer and the farmer in their attempt to reduce their production costs, uncheckedly can bring them and use them with adverse effect both on their own production and on the others that may harm them. Finally, I would like to say once again that our disagreement with Article 19, which states that until the final grazing plans are drawn up, the joint ministerial decision of May, the unjust, arbitrary and appropriate decision will apply. We therefore ask that it be withdrawn. Thank you. Madam President, thank you for understanding about time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u27	The Minister has the floor, Mr Kontonis, to speak on his amendment. Mr. Contonis, here, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u28	You won't have to, Madam President. I won't even talk about a three-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u29	I wish!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor because we have tabled a joint amendment to the Minister for Education on the moulation of distinguished athletes for their introduction to higher education institutions. In a way, little sense, I would say, the law that applies provides for the status of active athlete, even for school pupils who, in school championships, first and foremost were distinguished. This irrationality is intense, because the characterisation and certification of the active athlete, namely that he is involved in the life of a sports club, does not need in school championships and students, because it goes without saying that students are part of their team and through them they are distinguished.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u31	What amendment is that, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u32	It is the amendment with a general number 76 and a special number 19. This problem had also been tackled by the previous government, and in the same way it had been solved, but the validity of the amendment had a time horizon. The time horizon ends in 2015 and the need to expand. You can see that we think that, like the previous one, all the wings of this House are accepted, that will now be the case. It is an amendment which solves a problem in several children. This problem, in fact, has arisen from the poor wording of the law and its poor application. I inform you that this issue will be resolved definitively and irrevocably with the new sporting law and the conclusion of the legislature will be given at the end of the month. In any case, however, you realise that if this legislation is not adopted, that is, if the amendment is not adopted, we will have a serious problem for too many children, which have been distinguished. They are students who have taken the lead in school struggles. I repeat that the previous government had resolved this in the same way but it had set a time horizon in 2015, so now it needs to be extended. We did not set a time horizon so that matters would not arise every three or a few minutes. But the important thing is what I said to you, that unfortunately we are legislating and implementing the law in a way which is sometimes outrageous. We ask for a certificate of active athlete for a school club student, when it is certified by the state itself that is secondary education, school, etc.Huh? That is why, because there is one issue here, I would ask very much for all the Parliament's wings to vote in favour of this amendment. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Michos has the floor. Here, Mr. Micho, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I will begin with Article 3, which establishes the management plans for grazing. However, it is also possible to draw up temporary plans, and on the other hand there is a risk that the temporary plans will be approved, that three years will have elapsed and that the end of the period of the central agricultural policy will be approached. It is also possible for farmers to build in the pastures watereders and omnipotent tanks, which will not alter the naturality of the landscape and help to serve the farmers and the welfare of the animals. However, this provision could be a window - and this phenomenon we have seen on many occasions - so that some livestock farmers do villas. And I come to Article 6 on the rights of use of grazing to farmers to be allocated by regional committees. But, on the other hand, will this mean hatreds and rosés from party mechanisms or from people who have acquaintances to do their job better? And I come to Article 12, which concerns the issue of a legalisation of a permit for establishment in livestock facilities, so that they do not cease operation. The legalisation of existing livestock establishments is regulated. This must be done at all, because there are livestock establishments that are fifty and sixty years old, and these people are all dressed up, doing their job and making their animals there. So they should be helped. As regards Article 13 and paragraph 2, fishing is exempted from the insurance cover, so that Greek fishermen remain uncovered and unprotected for possible damage to their production. Greek fishing has entered a shrinking phase since 1995 and since 2008 the recording of the fish stocks has been interrupted by the Ministry of Rural Development, as it was called at the time. I mean, these people, they're being thrown away. By paragraph 3, the words ‘per prefecture’ shall not be deleted and no distinction shall be made between mountain, mountain and lowland areas, but average production per region or geographical area or country. Each region, however, has its specific features, such as, for example, large municipalities such as Crete, Evia, Samos. These counties have on one side their peculiarities and different problems. Now I will go to the declaration by the farmers of Drama, which says: 'our livestock is extinguished, our pasture is suffering, because the Europeans have determined them by their own measures'. It is not a solution to blame the previous ones alone. The present government brings a multi-legislative plan containing many ambiguities and without respect for local geographical characteristics. On the other hand, Mr Bollaris said that the man who went to Brussels to negotiate was ignorant of the subject. So, what did he do? Vacations? We're talking about the most serious issue. Veterinarians and agriculture are one and the same to develop in our economy. But unfortunately, the government sends you people who don't know where the four go for this bill. As regards paragraph 4, it may also not be covered by the assessment procedure by veterinarians and other competent bodies in the event of damage to the livestock farming. We know very well what has happened with the diseases and other natural disasters and what is going on asking them for money. At the moment when farmers don't have one in their pockets to feed their animals, you ask them too much. And I am going to go to the last article, Article 18, which provides for the possibility of re-checking. Meaning? What's gonna happen? Are we going to fill drugs? Will we serve the interests of MONSANTO and BAYER? We know very well what destruction Roundup and other pesticides that are not dispersed into the aqueous horizon and enter the water. You've voted for the recapitalisation of the banks all here! For farmers and farmers, what have you and previous governments voted for? You've done nothing. Does the banks need either the farmers or the farmers? Who's bringing money to the state? The banks are pulling them out. They look at their own pieces and they do well! But you are government, and you must do something for these people. What about the debts of the parties? On the one hand, you put taxes on farmers, revenue and expenditure books on agricultural parcels, but on the other, on the parties and channels that owe hundreds of millions, no one speaks. Nothing's ever heard of in here. No voices! But if anyone doesn't pay or owes the tax office, the confiscations will start. I told you yesterday. It has been paid by farmers of 14,000,000 euros to ELGA. The catastrophes suffered this year by cattle farmers and lambs were huge. You keep asking them. The 6,000 euros have been returned. The rest of what's happened? Why don't you give it to these people to breathe? On the other hand, Minister, subsidies should be given in May when summer starts. The clover begins in the first arms with 12 minutes in the field and with the second to 17 minutes. Right now that the farmer's going to get it through the warehouse waiting for subsidies, he'll take it for 25 minutes. And if he gets it from a store, it'll take 35 minutes! Is that how you'll keep the farmers? Is that how you're gonna help them? The corn right now starts to go up. During the summer, however, a few months ago, in September and October, the corn in the field began with 16 minutes, in northern Greece with 14 minutes and 15 minutes and is currently being taken care of. And when the holidays pass, his price will be high. It can reach all 20 minutes and 22 minutes. After you say that you want to help livestock - because there will also be exports - you need to finance young farmers, in order to be decentralised. As far as Ziraat Bank in northern Greece is concerned, it finances the Turks at very low interest rates and they buy the Greek land by taking the confiscated ones. On the other hand, the same bank that had borrowed to the Greeks in northern Greece, who keep and Thermopylae in fact, makes seizures for them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I shall also use my dentistry. So, when he had gone to Israel, Mr Samaras made an agreement with three Israelis on the confiscated and mortgaged land that was in the Rural Bank to take it for thirty years. Why don't you give this to farmers and farmers now? Another example is when you talk about forests. Thus, the matter arises in Halkidiki with the mines. There it has begun and destroyed the most ancient forest. Why don't you talk? Is there any reason why there are big funds behind, which no one here mentions? But, unfortunately, there are two standards in your government too. As far as the Agricultural Bank is concerned, if it does not become a state again, neither the farmer nor the farmer will see it. In a short time, in a year, in five months, in two years, we will enter a process to start seizures and nothing will stand. We'll go back to the time of the chips. You know very well that the Australian economy - I told the committee - depends on the export of wool. The Argentine economy by exporting beef, which we are currently importing 80%. But do you know why Argentina's beef is very good quality? Because 60% - 70% of cattle feed out freely. And you're shrinking it right now. The New Zealand economy is also dependent on wine and the European Union - our friend! - He's funding to take out vineyards and olives. Is that the help? Is that what they impose on us, both on previous governments and on you? They are becoming uncontrolled and illegal imports of milk and meat. A very large proportion, over 20%, becomes illegal. What checks are there for this? Bulgaria, Romania, Albania and Skopje are sending milk at night mainly with daliks, because there are some people who are financing the border and going through it, because there are some big merchants who want to do their job. On the other hand, we can produce much more milk and import concentrated milk and fresh milk, which is 15 days old. God make it fresh! So you continue the same policy in this part. But I've told you and I'll tell you again that secondary production can also begin. It's all a chain. Thus, tanning, crafts and a thousand jobs will work and unemployment will be reduced. I really hope that there will be a balanced distribution of pastures, but I do not think it will happen, because you have also started a little wrong. Indigenous tribes must be financed much more, because they are too many tribes in extinction. These are the breeds that we have received in certification for feta, are the breeds that have quality and milk and meat, which are much better than the hostels, and the Assaf of Spain, and the Lacaune of France and the Israelis and every breed that brings us and which are hybrids. Before I finish, I shall refer very little to Amendment No 63/6 which abolishes the Committees on Forest Dispute Settlement and set up technical committees for the examination of objections. This is an additional cost to the citizen who is appealing. We believe that you, too, will operate on party criteria. As for Amendment No 61/4 on quarrying, yes, some quarrying must be closed, but others - like the ones in Karystos - which are in quarries, as the locals say, and there is nothing around it are closed. You know very well, not only in Karystos but in other parts of Greece, how many people are out of work. In addition, some others have closed down because they are at NATURA. Yes, but give them the opportunity to do it now. But there was another reason why they closed down: they were the interests with those who have wind turbines. Look at these a little better and try to do everything you can for farmers, farmers, because they are indeed the only ones who can in two years, if you do something right, our economy can rise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and how this House is organised, twenty-eight students and students and two educational attendants from the LEonteio High School of Nea Smyrni. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Jellonis has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we heard yesterday about the major issue of the advance payment from the single payment to farmers, the Minister's announcement that he managed on Wednesday to announce rights to Greek farmers and farmers and on Friday to start paying 90%. He presented it here yesterday as a major achievement. And I ask, Minister. Did 90% of Greek farmers and farmers pay 90% in recent years, or did we repay the aid to 100%? At the same time, you and other speakers have repeatedly stressed from the government's point of view that you have the sloppy management plans for grazing. Then why should Article 19, at the last moment in paragraph 5, which states that until the approval of the grazing management plans, the distribution of eligible grazing land to the farmers in the country is made with your infamous joint ministerial decision? But if you have the management plans, the sloppy management plans as you mentioned here, in the plenary of this House, here and now we are asking you to submit them to know and we who are the pastures and then tell us how you are going to distribute them, which is something you are still keeping them undercover today. That is why, at least for this article, we will ask for a roll-call vote and reserve other articles. As regards the "innovation", the "new", the "big section" in a primary sector such as the stockfarming that you say you are doing with this bill, we say that it is a rebuilding and a copy due to your inertia and setback as the Ministry of Rural Development. Make a copy of Law 4264. You're not bringing anything new. Why are you doing this? Why did you bring the joint ministerial decision in May 2014? That is why we have the blame from the European Union. It is true that we have a past in the accusations that need to be corrected. They also have responsibility for previous governments. No one will deny that. We will see, however, and that is why we agreed to vote in the first place. Because of the inertia, by applying the previous law, Law 4264, we are under suffocating pressure of time today to legislate again on the same to avoid finalising the charges for 2012, 2013 and 2014. That is why we said 'yes' in the first place, Mr Minister. And you know very well that you made a commitment that by 15 July you would have the management you said in the House that there are, and you recently sent them to the district managers, twelve days ago - the two have not signed them and one with reservation - and that is why you are going to pass here on to the comparative bill that the Minister will have the right to do so at the end. So, from the debate in plenary, ladies and gentlemen, to get into the articles, we have not received the best possible answers to the question of the correctness of the arguments on the part of the Ministry, the intention of the changes in relation to what had to be done yesterday, had been done, they have not been implemented and today you have a copy of them. In relation to Rule 1, I stressed that the Scientific Service of the Parliament is also telling you. We're telling you one more time. This is a change - a trap for us, as it is not in line with European legislation. It's a trick article because of the Ministry's inaction for 11 months. It is the first bill after 11 months and you are cut with crocodile tears that yes, you want the primary sector, the livestock sector, to go forward, to bring us the nutritional adequacy in the country with quality livestock products with a designation of origin. Bring this bill after 11 months and you are looking through the change of name in relation to the term "casklands" in terms of grazing land, to find an alibi. We are asking, even now, that we do not have problems tomorrow, in order to avoid categorisation again, that the term 'catching land' should be replaced by the term 'catchland', which, as we have pointed out, accepts - as we have pointed out - by the regulations, the European Union. With regard to Article 2, it is not your legislative original, Minister, to draw up the National Geographical Database. All this is predetermined. And you come today to present this to us as a new one. All this should have been done yesterday, since they were voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u37	And the other day, they had to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, in the political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development you are responsible for those who were in governments, and they had to be sure that the day before today they said who tried to manage and did not know what a pasture was. They probably don't know where they are.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u39	Where's the Deputy Minister of Agriculture?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u40	In relation to Article 3...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u41	Who do you mean? Who do you mean they didn't know?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u42	However, not you, Minister, because I said 'from the Ministry's political leadership. I was expecting Mr. Bolaris to come here sometime. We didn't see him. He makes statements from Drama, but here he comes to place himself on what he says about pastures and see them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u43	What a transfer it is that you've done!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u44	In relation to the management plans, I will be standing, Mr Ministers, in paragraph 2, where you are commissioning the preparation of management plans for grazing in the regions of the country, but excluding farmers from this procedure who are responsible and responsible. You said to the committees that they would even participate with advisory participation. We don't see it. We are asking, even now, for legislation to improve the bill, even though we are not sufficient to simply involve farmers, in the opinion alone. We want the genuine involvement of farmers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall also take my dentistry, Madam President. In the same article you talk about sustainability. You're told by the Scientific Service of the House. Sustainableness in general and in vague terms, without, for example, a plan for the management of protection areas, such as NATURA II, which our government had carried out, is not possible. That is why we, ladies and gentlemen of the House, do not play it by natural and left-wing intellectuals but by good cooperation with the European Union, we are implementing very specific programmes that are human-friendly and that also ensures the rational management of pastures and the environment. For Article 4, we have repeatedly stressed, Minister, that you are putting 31-1-2019 at the end of the final date for drawing up the plans for the management of pastures. Why don't you put 31-1-2017, which will be the first review of the CAP, where, if necessary, we can make interventions? For Article 5: ‘Funding of grazing management plans’. With the n. 4264 a allocation of EUR 900,000 was provided for the costs of the management plans for grazing, paid by the Ministry of Rural Development. Now, here, following our points on the committees, you accept that a part of the revenue from Articles 6(1) and 7, namely the renting of the right to use grazing, as well as funds from the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, as well as resources from the Agricultural Fund, will be covered. This is where we disagree. And where do we disagree? The farmers' money, which they will pay as a rent for the use of grazing rights, must be clearly pointed out that this is what they are going for infrastructural and grassland enrichment projects. They can't go to management for the conquest of the management plans of pasture. That's the state's responsibility. Why are you transferring these costs to farmers in fact? About Articles 6 and 7, at the same time, about the rents from the right to use grazing! It is clear, Minister, that our disagreement on transferring this amount to the regions and removing this amount from the municipalities is clear. Those responsible, who are directly related to pastures, who know the shortcomings in infrastructure, which maintain the rural road, are the municipalities. Who's gonna make the infrastructure in the pastures? The regions? With what services? Do they have knowledge of the grazing shortages? We are asking, at least at the last minute, for this to change. Do not remove any additional resources from the municipalities, from the primary self-government, which is the actual competent institution for the infrastructure in the pastures. In Article 12, which amends provisions of the EC Treaty, the Court of Justice of the European Communities has ruled that the Court of Justice has no jurisdiction to hear and determine whether a Member State has failed to fulfil its obligations under the EC Treaty and has failed to fulfil its obligations under the EC Treaty. 4056/2012, you are coming once again, Minister, and you are giving extension, extension, extension, with regard to the legalisation of livestock establishments in or near town plans for those livestock establishments again have not been legalized with regard to the permit for establishment. I ask, beyond the extensions, what's new? Here you say that yes, we support, we do, we proceed with the parallel program. The parallel program reminds of the Thessaloniki program. Fruits, hopes if that's the parallel program for the Greek people. I have also stressed in the committees to see the weaknesses of Mr von Wogau's report. We have found 4056/2012 and correct the bad texts in favour of farmers. One of the things I have repeatedly stressed is that in mountain and mountain regions, due to the fact that farms are of a small size, all farmers need to request an extra coverage of the parcel to make a livestock facility which is of a serious size to be competitive. Instead, we see no change. We are calling for the derogation to be understood in mountain and semi-urban areas with the cover of the parcel where the livestock plant is to be located and to go to 30%. First of all, we think that there is a positive development, Minister - and we will contribute - to the withdrawal of pesticides, which is a major issue but would not be solved as it has come with this article in this law. We think it is good that you withdraw it and we will help to make it the best possible for pesticides to be withdrawn and destroyed. In relation to Article 19, our objections are well known. We have repeatedly said that the ministerial decision - which you have repeatedly denied to the committees - had nothing to do with the allocation, has nothing to do with this bill which, with absolute opaqueness, divides farmers into various categories. We'll see about it Wednesday. You are now bringing it here and, as I have said before, you are saying that you are ready for management. You will be tabling this article today, but we will also be familiar and societal with the management plans and how you will be allotted. This is a major issue, because the distribution that will take place this year - you are the ones who are rejoicing that you have done a great deal of work - will follow the Greek farmers for the next six years. We do not play here, nor should we leave any window that creates an atmosphere that rights are shared at all, depending on the intentions of the Ministry. Finally, I would like to say, Minister, that this bill is no development and it does not help the livestock sector. It is a bill that comes suffocating and pressurizing to prevent dates and correct a number of errors, omissions and oligopoies of your Ministry and of the Co-authorised Ministries. In relation to the amendments...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u45	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u46	I shall conclude, Madam President. In relation to the amendments tabled, I shall put to the vote in writing, but only one point. If possible, nineteen articles of the bill, fourteen amendments, and you say that we are in emergencies and we are legislating! No, Mr. Ministers! You just don't have programming, you don't have a plan. You are improvising every day and what you remember is happy and you bring it to the House and you degrade parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to ensure that the time is strict. A lot of speakers have been written. We will not have time to complete the process. I'm gonna interrupt right in time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, after having previously participated in the educational programme of the "Corporate of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one student and students and an educational meeting from the Private Municipal School of PRAXIS and ACTS. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Nikolaos Moraitis has the floor for eight minutes. If you want your dentistry, you can tell me all along. Do you want her?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u48	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u49	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Your Honor. Minister, you say with the bill that you will solve livestock problems. However, ensuring competitiveness, extroversion, dealing with structural problems, pursuing increased value added on products as products of origin, the well-known PDOs, referred to as the objectives of the bill, are the direction of speeding up the process of concentration and concentration of grazing land into less hands and critically affecting micro-producers, without benefiting popular consumption. It is the choice of all urban governments and a consistent request from the Greek Industrial Association and the local monopolies active in the concentration, marketing, processing and banking capital at the same time as conventional agriculture. It is characteristic that the dairy industry 'DOODONI', which in the last three years, after its acquisition, has increased exports by 12%, particularly in PDO products, cheese, feta, yoghurt. He was exporting funds. He created shops in Bulgaria and factory in Cyprus, while at the same time he reduced over 25% the price of milk in the region of Epirus and more generally in north-west Greece. It gives a lower price to milk, Minister, to a thousand five hundred small milk producers in Epirus and the wider region. So, what's he doing? Those who have less than six tons of produce give them a lower price. And who are these producers? They're poor people, they're retired farmers who can't live with the "little" pensions and they get a lower price. That is the policy of the previous ones and you are also serving today. At the same time, PDO products became sceptical for popular households that resort to cheaper, mainly imported, like products. It is a government pretext that this bill will address the problems created in 2013 and 2014 with the aid scheme based on the eligibility of the areas under Regulations 1307/2013 and 6039/2014 of the European Union, with which we told you yesterday and the committee, left thousands of farmers out of subsidies or took crumbs. We believe that farmers who are going to produce reduced rights and aid from grazing land will be forced to reduce ovine and caprine animals or be forced by the same number of animals to increase food consumption, so that they have reduced incomes and have to leave their produce, sell their herds, land, and their rights. With this policy in particular, disadvantaged, island mountain regions will be hit, in other words, accelerating the dismantling process and collecting land, production and herds into a few hands. For these reasons, we voted against the bill in principle. I now come to the debate on the articles. We are voting against Article 1 because it serves European Union regulations setting the eligible areas and resulting in the reduction of aid and the loss of up to 100% of any aid for ineligible areas, but where animals were grazing there. It creates confusion about the vegetative features and can open the way, as we pointed out yesterday, for the privatisation of state land. In Article 2 we are voting on a white paper, because it is not clear to use the information of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy as a common database, and it gives this article and every power to the Minister. In Article 3 and Article 4, where the management plans for grazing and the preparation of grazing plans are concerned, we are voting 'no' because they perpetuate and do not address the problem of managing ovine and caprine animals and the payment of aid to small and medium-sized farmers. The provisions of the management plan will create problems, since management purposes provide that forest management plans may include different and parallel actions which may be incompatible with grazing plans. Nor shall the priority of the management objective be guaranteed in the protected areas. We say - and that is what we are talking about and the position of Greek farmers is - that subsidies should be granted to livestock units and not to be extensive, that is to say, to areas. In Article 5, where there is expenditure on grazing plans, we are voting in white because small- and medium-sized farmers are charged with renting in accordance with Article 7. Project studies will not be possible for regions because of a lack of staff and will thus be given to individuals. We say that they are made by state services and that the necessary permanent scientific staff are recruited with stable employment relationships. In Article 6 on grazing rights, we are voting 'no' because small and medium-sized farmers who are difficult to respond to and cause problems and because of the outstanding operational problems, while all the supporting documents and the rights which poor farmers must produce, are very difficult. In Article 7, which has the right to use grazing rights, we are voting 'no', because we say that all this must be free of charge for poor farmers who are currently affected by this anti-agricultural policy. In Article 8, where there is the imprint of grazing land and the exceptions, we also vote 'no' because it does not clearly specify which areas will be reflected, as would be reasonable in Article 3(2), as it states what they are not reflected. You do this because you are trying to avoid malpractices associated with the loose ends of the character and ownership of the land and you are doing so with the logic "strength through the engagement". In other words, land used as grazing land should only be captured. You do this because the shepherd claims to be his, while the state claims ownership. We're asking. And if they are not captured, will they be included in eligible areas? Also, why exclude regions of national parks, monuments of nature and areas of historical memory such as the Macronisus? In Article 9 we are voting 'no' because there is ambiguity in composition. But the Minister has the responsibilities. We are talking about the composition of these committees, where their members are identified. There is ambiguity about the specific role of members of the committee. For example, the representatives of the Forest Office, not of the hereditary but of the decentralised region, how will they be bound by the noble region, because they have no administrative connection? In the event of disagreement, what view will prevail? In Article 10, "Boscable lands of local government" we say "no", because it complicates more as regards the priority of the distribution of grazing land to farmers who have their head offices in Otta and Otta has the resources of ownership, law and possession. The removal of costs in private areas did not take place, not because these private areas would be borne, but in order to avoid greater obstacles due to ambiguity - where there is a private area to whom it belongs. In Article 11, where there are authorization provisions, we say 'no', because in fact the Minister is being given everything he wants, he does what he wants, and on other matters, as far as the powers of the committees are concerned. There is also the movement of plant products, which, in our view, is irrelevant to us in this bill. In Article 12 there is an amendment to provisions of Law 4056/2012. We shall be voting on a leafy-white motion. Of course, we are in favour of the legalisation of the stadium facilities, particularly the poor farmers, without any charge. But here, you are maintaining loose ends that you have found from the previous governments, you have in a hostage world, you are constantly giving extensions, without really solving the problems of legitimisation of stall facilities. And here, Minister, we are asking a question about this whole process. A permit is currently requested for organic livestock farming to be established and operated. Are they going to be extended or are they going to be problems with regard to the payments of farmers who have been integrated into organic livestock? In this article and in the amendments, there is the every power of the Minister. In Article 13, where there is an amendment to the provisions of Law 3877/2010 and Law 2342/1995, we say 'no', because it actually worsens the conditions of insurance, as it leads to a higher premium, which in reality does not correspond to the actual value of production, particularly in less-favoured areas, where area yields are much smaller. It also does not cover diseases such as green worm, such as follicular dermatitis. It does not cover 100% of the losses. We, as a JRC, have a standing position to finance ELGA exclusively from the state budget, which must cover all the diseases of plant and animal production and the fixed capital in 100% of the losses. In Article 14, we say 'yes' for the ESDP Schools. Of course, here, we are clear that our position is that the matter of education is a matter of the Ministry of Education in a single, centrally-designed, system at all levels from the 12-year-old compulsory school to higher and higher education and vocational education. They cannot be driven to these schools of popular families without finishing high school. In Article 16, for propagating material, we are voting 'white'. In Article 17, too, we are voting 'no'. As far as Article 18 is concerned, in spite of the improvements, despite the withdrawal of all this, we are voting very eloquently 'white' because the whole of this article is an adaptation to Euro-Union policy. We also have a question of recruiting permanent administrative staff in Benacio. In paragraph 10 of this article we say 'yes'. In Article 19, where there are transitional provisions, we are voting 'no' because there are indeed a number of questions. As we also vote 'no' in Article 20, where there are repealed provisions. In conclusion, we note that in the face of this explosive situation experienced by poor medium-sized farmers, they must create, together with the working class, the wide-popular strata, youth, front collision, rupture, to overthrow this barbaric policy. It needs a common front, because the problems are common, the interests are common, the opponent is common. They must strive to put brakes on wild policy, give prospects in their struggle, demand growth in the agricultural and livestock sectors as it is the interests of the people, the country, small and medium-sized farmers, consumers and not entrepreneurs, cartels, brokers. In such a direction, the Communist Party of Greece calls on the poor medium-sized farmers and farmers to fight. He invites them to participate massively in Thursday's strike across the country on their own blocks, with tractors, with agricultural machinery at the racing front gatherings.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u51	Mrs Marcou has the floor. How much time do you want, Mrs. Marcus?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u52	I shall also take my dentistry, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u53	Well, then you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. Time is limited and the amendments almost equal to the article in the bill. I shall therefore refer to the most important points, where we have disagreements and observations. In Article 6, which refers to rights of use, I said yesterday about the issue of indigenous tribes that you accepted and their importance. However, I must stress again that there are still many outstandings to be solved, such as the establishment of regional land use, the completion of forest maps and the separation of pastures into livestock areas with multiple benefits both for the pasture and for the health and well-being of productive animals. These must go immediately so that we can talk about a comprehensive production reconstruction plan in Greek livestock farming. In this context, we will also see the functioning of a National Agricultural Policy Council. It escapes this bill, but I think it is important. This is a national collective body involving people and scientists in the sector, which will help to draw up guidelines for the country's agricultural and livestock policy. All this must be discussed immediately, Minister. With Article 7 on deforestation by another resource, we disagree. You have not given us a single explanation of this movement, and you have brought the provision out of surprise and without public consultation. In Article 11 with the authorizing provisions, I also told the committee that you could not bring so many broad authorisations to the Minister in this way, as to determine in the form of all the collective bodies of the Ministry. If that is the case, we shall completely dismantle Parliament. For the Article 13 concerning ELGA, I pointed out to you the question of the professional rights of veterinarians. How can one not a veterinarian judge the damage to his livestock? The improved wording that you have, unfortunately, brought does not solve the problem, because it refers to the ELGA regulation, which leaves the scope and non-animals to evaluate the death of animals. I would like to submit a letter in the Minutes and a letter from the Department of Veterinary Medicine of the University of Thessaly on the subject, which also substantiates this. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Catherine Marcou, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Because it was also mentioned yesterday by colleagues that the Ministry did a good job on lumpy skin disease, I would like to make a point because I had asked a question very early on this issue. How can we say that the Ministry worked properly when we see the speed of spreading the disease from Evros to Halkidiki and the damage to livestock? Why did you not go on recruiting temporary staff from overcrowding, instead of leaving them to make assessments of geopolitics? The ELGA regulation needs to be redesigned after an open dialogue with farmers, universities and bodies. I'm continuing with Article 15. It is good that you include feeding the fatal predators, which I assume is about animals that have not been killed because of a disease that is at risk. However, the imposition of a fee on farmers also affects the costs and the possibility of implementing the measure. The pilot projects were successful and effective, precisely because they did not overweight the farmer. I suggested that you cover costs from the ELGA surplus, from the livestock premiums. As the provision is, we cannot vote on it. For Article 16, it is wrong to allow uncontrolled introduction of foreign multiplier material supposedly for personal use. How are you going to control the use made? In general, Law 1564/1985 is an obsolete piece of legislation. Instead of correcting the law emblematically, it is time to discuss a comprehensive reform of the multiplier management, control and marketing framework. We have proposals in this respect, which we would be happy to discuss. For Article 19 of the transitional provisions, if you wish to apply the Ministerial Decision of May on the distribution of pastures, you can do so and take responsibility, but you have also acknowledged the injustices and paradoxes that the decision has caused. I shall now proceed briefly to the amendments. There are really no excuses for this picture. You have tabled sixteen amendments to a bill of twenty articles, of which only one or two are relevant to the subject of the bill. Mostly, these are extensions of extensions for what you have not had to legislate in one year. Because one year you had, and not two months, as Mr. Famelos said yesterday. And I would point out that if the ministers do not bother to come to plenary, we will not vote against unfounded amendments. I should like to refer to some of those who think that they are hiding important issues and that they should come in this way. One amendment, number 69/12, concerns the Rodopi national park. The same problem is faced with the national parks of Responsibility, Coronias Volvis. I have asked numerous questions about this. Today from the twenty-storeyed areas, only five are protected by a presidential decree, when the CPI has recently thought in two decisions that protective CPIs are null and void. We will obviously not leave the national park unprotected but I expect to hear from the Minister what he intends to do about this major issue. Environmental sensitivity is seen in practice and not in words. Another important issue is that of sheltered living. It is the amendment with No 71/14. As you do with previous amendments, you only cover the structures of the OTAs and leave unprotected the structures that are included in the programme and operate other non-profit-making bodies. What for? We expect Mrs Fotou to tell us, or I will bring the matter to parliamentary scrutiny. What exactly has he done to ensure the funding of PSFs and boarding houses since the new year from the new PSF and the creation of new PSFs? Of course you should answer first if you know how many people with disabilities they need support in an RU but they have moved on to such a record. We are asking for an extension to apply to all the structures of the programme, which really provide valuable services and help and autonomy to our fellow citizens who face chronic disabilities. Finally, the amendment by the Ministry of Rural Development under number 77/20 - the only one that really has something to do with the bill - I will only stand on one point, paragraph 8, for the management of strays. I wish, Minister, that the problem was solved so easily. But the reality is very different and tragic. Every day we see incredible images of animal abuse. We see the miserable conditions in most municipal sanitations, the lack of funding and direction to the municipalities, so that they can meet their increased obligations in relation to strays. The Ministry of Rural Development - I am sorry to say this - has not done enough in this area. If we do not promote adoptions, if we do not try to change the world's attitude towards unarmed strayers, if the state does not take care of the application of the laws to those who are abused, abused and tortured by animals, then whatever collective organs you recommend will not be done. So I ask you directly. What do you intend to do on the issue of stray management? Will you take decisive action on what I have said or will you stick to the formal amendments? Because the issue of animal protection is primarily a matter of humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Marcus. I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Tsironi, to develop his amendment. Here, Mr. Cironi, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Madam President. We have tabled an amendment so that the Rhodopean loggings can continue to fall until the Presidential Decree comes out. I don't think it takes too much of a conversation. This amendment has a number 69/12. The previous Member is absolutely right. We cannot continue to give extensions without ending the hot issue of the presidential decrees which must govern all the protected areas of Greece. Already in the new NSRF, we have entered the envelope to start immediately this year all specific environmental impact studies, which are the prerequisite for the presidential decrees to come out. In this sense it would be unfair in an area that is really one of Greece's most important logging regions, to stop logging until the presidential decree is made. That is why this amendment has to be accepted. The other two amendments, 65 by special 8 and 63 by special 6, concern the abolition of the block exemption. 4280 of the secondary committees for the examination of objections to declassification of forest land. And, essentially, it was necessary because last year, the problem arose that the private person's right to testify unreasonable to start the committee was given December 2014. So on the basis of the length of time laid down by the Court. 4280 expired in February 2015, that is, in a month and a half if we remove the festive fortnight. In this sense, it has become impossible for these committees to function, so that today the public is also at risk of losing too many areas of unfairly - because there are no committees - and at the same time the individuals are also wrong, because they have little time to testify about the mistakes. These two amendments together - if we look at them as a whole - establish a legitimate functioning of committees to the extent that the committees are now reconstituting with the second amendment, paragraph 63, so that they are technical committees. You know that the Council of State has now rejected the existence of a court in these committees. We are therefore making technical committees which are unpaid and which will resolve this problem until - I stress it - the new forest map law - but this is also a bill that will come immediately, in the next few days we will put this in the consultation - which solves this problem with the individual fragmentary objections and doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u57	Madam President, if I may, for an amendment introduced by Mr Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u58	Don't you want to hear the ministers first?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u59	May I respond, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u60	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u61	Since the amendment is still subject to legislative improvements, I am not ready to defend it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u62	The amendment you have tabled? The amendment is tabled by the Minister and on it are you making legal corrections?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Ignace, you have not asked for the floor. Mr. Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u64	I didn't ask why I should be.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u65	Okay, but what should we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u66	But it's about the substance, which is the major.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u67	I watched it. It has some improvements to the amendment. Did you ever hear of that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u68	Has it ever happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u69	It's happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u70	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u71	I've called someone else at Stepma, but if you can't wait, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u72	We have said that amendments tabled by the Ministries, if they are not supported by the relevant ministers, will not be accepted. That's one to close it. Secondly, I want to put forward this legislative improvement which I told you at the beginning of today's sitting where, in paragraph 2 of Article 8, it is recast 'is found in nucleus of national parks and preserved monuments of nature'. Paragraph 3 of Article 8 is deleted because I would actually say that I would say that and you will see it. The next part is Article 18(6), which concerns what we have said about pesticides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Lazarides, how much time do you want, eight minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u74	I think I'll get there. If I don't get there, I'll take time from my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u75	Okay, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Is the bill in the right direction? Of course, it is in the right direction and it was necessary and it is something that all the institutions have converged. In the committees, all the institutions agreed on this, namely, that the bill is right, and some said that it was late, that it was delayed. Of course, it is not the current government, because others have been ruling the place for so many years. Indeed, because of mistaken policies, we also have many fines from the past, delays in subsidies, subsidies and so on. In any case, they were problems that some had used to put under the carpet. Now the carpet's up, so we have these problems ahead of us. In Article 1, the character, definition and destination of grazing land shall not be altered due to their use for feeding agricultural animals and their management shall be governed by the relevant provisions of rural, forestry and environmental legislation for each category of area concerned. Article 2 provides for the utilization of information and for the recording, mapping and continuous monitoring of all grazing land in the country on a single basis and with a potential for dynamic data updating. By Article 2, the Minister for Rural Development and Food entrusted the development of management plans for grazing in the regions of the country. The management plans drawn up by the regions shall be adopted by a decision of the coordinator of the decentralised administration concerned, after having consulted the relevant forestry authority or the competent forest management authority in the case of the absence of a forest office, in the case of areas falling under the provisions of forestry law and the relevant rural development and veterinary authorities of the Party concerned. It is necessary to establish the management plans for grazing, as the biggest problem to be addressed in relation to the sustainability of the country's grazing land is the lack of management. The lack of coordination in the management and exploitation of grazing land has led to problems which have an impact not only on the productivity of grazing land but also on their eligibility for European aid. That is why we also see delays in aid, subsidies, etc. Only through rational use, which will result from the implementation of the country's grazing plans, the country's grazing land will be able to deliver the best potential for farmers and hence the economy and the natural environment. The aim of the provisions of Article 6 is to establish the right to use a specific and uniform mechanism throughout the country, in accordance with the requirements of the approved grazing plan. The aim of the provisions of Article 7 is to regulate for the whole country the matters relating to the price of the right to use grazing. The right to public land shall be placed in favour of the region in the administrative limits of grazing, with the obligation to make available for the preparation and implementation of the management plans, the maintenance and construction of grazing land infrastructure in accordance with the grazing management plan. Paragraph 3 of Article 8 provides that if grazing land includes woodland or woodland, it may be used for grazing in accordance with the proposed draft law and any intervention on them other than the interventions provided for by forestry law and shall not prevent grazing. Article 9 of the draft law provides for the establishment in each region of one or more monitoring and implementation committees for grazing management plans. It is necessary to establish the committees provided for in this Article in order to enable an assessment of the correct application of the conditions laid down in the management plan for grazing. Article 10 of the proposed draft law provides that grazing land situated in the first degree region, owned, held by, owned or used by, the relevant TAs, is to be allocated as a priority to the needs of farmers, natural or legal persons who have their registered office in the local municipal community in which the grazing age is situated or to mobile farmers who have been proven to make use of those grazing land. Certain citizens and bodies express questions about land use and areas and areas of special protection provided for by general urban plans, GSPs and municipalities. It is also a question of not taking into account the civic elements of the municipalities, and it is proposed that there should be no separation of OTA grazing land from other grazing land, but that it should be considered as a single unit. Article 12 extends the period provided for in Article 14(1) of L.4056/2012, which concerns the issue of an authorisation for establishment in livestock establishments of all categories of Article 2(1) of the same law, which, at the time of entry into force of Law 4056/2012, were in operation without a permit for establishment or had already ceased operation for that purpose. At the same time, the conditions are laid down for the authorisation of keeping a livestock establishment in existing livestock establishments, within or close to settlements situated less than those in force by undertakings requiring health protection and with a capacity greater than that laid down by the decisions of the regional authorities concerned for the preservation of domestic animals. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] In practice, livestock establishments which were set up before the entry into force of the Law are legally legal tendered. They did not fulfil any of the conditions laid down by the General Accounting Office of the State in its report and did not fulfil any of the conditions laid down in its provisions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will supplement the time of my dentistry, Mr President, if I may. The GEOTE shall state that the project is correctly extended by Article 12 of the deadline laid down in Article 14 of the Law. Regulation (EU) No 4056/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2012 on the common organisation of the market in beef and veal and repealing Council Regulations (EEC) No 4056/86 and (EEC) No 4056/86 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. This was also a request from GEOTE to the relevant Ministry. Article 15 provides that the national programme for the collection and management of dead animals shall be started in order to ensure the protection of public health, animal health and the environment. Under Article 15(3) of the draft law, a fee shall be introduced to ensure that the programme operates satisfactorily and over time to put an end to the lack of an organised plan for the management of dead animals. By paragraph 6, a programme for the collection and management of dead bovine, ovine and caprine animals for which there is an obligation to carry out examinations for transmissible spongiform encephalopathies shall apply only for 2016. Greece has been convicted by the Court of Justice of misappropriation of the nr. Regulation (EC) No 1774/2002 on animal health rules for animal by-products, with the main problem of the lack of management of dead animals. It's what we said at the outset about the convictions and the fines that come from the past. The case is at the stage of the fine procedure, by letter of formal notice for the application of the judgment of 17 December 2009. It is stressed that first, the pilot project for the management of dead animals in the region of eastern Macedonia - Thrace was completed on 6-12-2014 and the programme of Thessaly Region is being completed soon. In eighteen months of pilot operation of the animal collection and incineration programme in eastern Macedonia - Thrace, impressive figures were recorded because of bluetongue. The program was advertised, since thousands of dead animals forced farmers to choose their proper management. In particular, the two companies that became contractors to the pilot project managed correctly fourteen thousand sixty - thirty - eight dead animals. In particular, a thousand fifty - four cattle, thirteen thousand fourscore fifty - five sheep, and a hundred twenty - nine goats. The collection concerned only dead bovine animals over the age of twenty-four or forty-eight months, goats and sheep over the age of eighteen months, in accordance with Regulations 999/2001 and 1069/2009. Article 18 sets out a timeframe for the preparation and adoption of a specific national action plan to formulate a specific policy on the use of pesticides with the ultimate aim of reducing the impact of use. For the first time, the procedures for monitoring and recording prices for pesticides are laid down for the better information of producers who want to obtain them. In conclusion, I would like to say, as I said at the outset, that the bill is in the right direction - we support it - and again, Minister, I would ask you to see 61/4 with particular attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u77	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the ANEL Parliamentary spokesman. Mr. Papachristopoulos, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-seven students and students and an attendant of the LEonteio High School of "St.Donisios Smyrni". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are also told by Mr Georgiadis, Secretary of the Central Union Parliamentary Group, that the Group of the European People's Party defines as a special speaker for today's plenary, 1-12-2015, MP Ioannis Saridis, instead of MP Anastasios Megalamustakas. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President, and I would also like to thank the Central Group for giving me the position of its speaker, because we are - and I believe that this is happening to most of us here - in three and four committees at the same time. I don't know if it'd be worth the trouble of confronting this particular piece of legislation. I want to move forward and go forward. I would like to remind the Minister who brought this piece of legislation to the attention of certain challenges, which have been afflicted for many decades by the agricultural, livestock, the fishing population of the country. I want to remind him that his greatest challenge is mediators. Its second biggest challenge at that time is what happened to the agricultural cooperatives - I do not want to remind them - of what happened in the ELGA and above all the so-called agricultural bank, which was the largest farm in corruption. This is because I have heard too many expressions that go back to the past, such as inconvenience, enthusiasm and so forth, which I do not think are appropriate if you consider what has happened in this area for too many decades and how much respect was actually available from the state in this class that is not just the farmers, farmers, fishermen and all those who have a connection with nature. I, too, believe that you have another challenge ahead of you, Minister. The situation at the moment is very favourable and not just for tourism. After Erdogan-Putin, I believe that yesterday you should have been active. What was wrong with the events of Ukraine, which some with very light hearts decided then to share the views that were affected by agricultural products in northern Greece, today, should rethink this mistake. And you, as ever today, have a sacred obligation to buy Russia - a huge market that everyone would envy - to indulge it and exploit it. First of all, I was pleased to hear your reply that any minister who does not support his amendment will withdraw it. Did I hear all right? Is that how it happened? And I am pleased to hear that because one of these amendments has been very modestly said by our rapporteur, it is the one concerning the operation of the quarry. Welcome extension, because 2015 is over. It's the third extension you're giving. 2015 ends. But there are some questions. This is the first time that we have seen, apart from marbles and shale, etc., an extension of very comfort to the quarries of industrial minerals. We're the same, and we're right that we've had a big fight for what happened in Halkidiki. And we did it right, and the Skourlets did hard environmental conditions. Look at this today, because there are two - three provisions in this amendment that are inconsistent with this option. I tell you with a lot of love and very good intention. And because Chironis and many other colleagues have ecological sensitivities that are greater than my own and yours, I believe they will agree with me: Is it a broad sense that you are making an application in the short term without environmental conditions and until the competent state responds I work the quarry? I'm telling you this, because there's an issue coming up for a Marcopoulou quarry that you know what happened. And I want to believe that we will have your understanding of this particular amendment that is a little bit - I will not say it's awkward - drawn. I think we have a duty to see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Next is the Special Speaker of the Union of Central Banks, Mr Saridis. After the last speaker, Mr Saridis, we will start the list of Members, as formulated. Mr. Saridis, you have eight minutes. If you need your dentistry too, your time is available.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, a joint finding is that this bill was missing. A common finding is that today's bill is on the right track. But a joint observation is that today's bill has shortcomings and points that need to be clarified. The Minister will run with ministerial decisions to cover the gaps. The farmers will run to collect the money to pay undetermined rents and the question, "From the moment we have no forest maps how will we implement management plans for pastures?" will continue to exist. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that this bill is intended to contribute to the productive reconstruction of the country, and that is why we should be very careful. With this bill, the government is trying to correct errors and omissions that led to the destruction of the value of livestock, trying to give subsidies to farmers, trying to stop paying fines to public funds and hopes to solve the problem of illegal management of agricultural products. At the same time, it is important that the state finally assumes its responsibilities in combating illegal practices, such as uncontrolled forest grazing. This bill is the first to come from this ministry within four years. For the first time the word "boss" was defined in May 2014 by a single article, which the current government and then opposition fought. The very same definition is used today by the government, SYRIZA, the SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence, with the only difference how it changed the word "boss" and made it "lands". I also did not get an answer to my question whether this change had taken into account the corresponding European directive. I share my colleagues' concerns about the level of readiness for the regions to draw up management maps. I think the committee's success is that, after the pressures exerted, you have accepted the participation of livestock operators even in the local distribution committees. I do not want to believe my colleague's comment yesterday that all this is a transaction product. We are giving the district managers an extension - to their seconded people - and we are getting from the municipalities, despite the strong protests of the CEDEFOP, money to give them it. Ladies and gentlemen, we express our strong disagreement with Article 6 of the bill, which provides for the management of pastures in the regions. We also disagree with Article 7 because there are no criteria for calculating the rent. We express our strong dissatisfaction with Article 19, in which a decision which has been discriminatory between farmers is maintained. But we're not here to deceive everything. We're here, and we've got the best responsibility for the place. We are acting and voting in the country's own interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u81	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Before we begin with the list of speakers and Members, the Minister, Mr Apostolos, asked for an intervention. Would you like to give some answers, Minister? Five minutes, I think. In order to start the list, why are several Members registered?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u83	Let me tell you, there's so much topics. Remove me from the time of my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u84	Good. Start and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, let us not forget that since 2012, either in the committees or in this Chamber, we have constantly been calling for the problem of the choices made in pastures to be solved for our country only if the European Union agrees that it must enter this process and the woody vegetation of our country's forest ecosystem. I know the efforts made by the previous political leadership. I know the rivalry that existed with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. You have frightened - and it is positive, I recognise it as a positive one - even at the last minute of 2014 to bring an amendment. However, when we took over and went to implement the relevant regulation, the problems were too much. All I have to say is that he wanted to have all the areas of polar vegetation over 50% of the surface. This thing wouldn't get us out. Secondly, we do not think that this draft law has been written and sent and "walked". There have been too many difficulties. And you all know them. Nevertheless, we have shared all our views this year and come with this proposal. And, of course, it seemed then in the debate that it is not a simple matter. It's not simple to say that we're going to make definitive management plans for all these surfaces. We are clearing one thing from the beginning: Forget the formal approach to the issue, 'I must have these areas as eligible for subsidies', and see tomorrow. We therefore want these areas to be used essentially for livestock farming. Finally, this thing has to be understood. I would like to come to many comments that have been made: As far as the definition is concerned, again I repeat that grazing land is all these potential areas in our country that can be grazed. Boss pursuant to the Rules of Procedure, according to the European Union, are those areas that can be eligible. And for our part, we want as much as possible what we are going to do, to capture more land as eligible than the ones which the European Commission considers to be grassland. End this story. Because they have raised issues relating to compatible uses, with the management plans, we are clear to everyone who sees each use that they are compatible with forestry legislation - because we are talking about them - they are the ones which are provided for in the sixth chapter of n. 998/1979. These are and there are many of these compatible uses. From there on, to say that motocross is compatible, it is, of course, not, because they are proven uses which prevent livestock farming. All this will therefore be taken seriously into account. Another issue raised concerns the deadline for drawing up management plans in 2019. It's not just a case of recording, what we want to do. As you can see, this management plan will provide for work, interventions, which require other approaches, environmental studies. We know that such problems will arise. And I wish the land register, forest maps, uses of land had been completed. That is why there is this time. I wish, if we have the financial capacity, that we do it at the end of 2017. That is where we will now show if we are willing to help the area in real terms. Because, therefore, in this process - especially legislation - extension is the main feature, not to start extensions on the first day. Let's give it some time. And if we complete this by 2019, imagine this, which I mentioned last night and last night: five to ten thousand Libyan units across Greece through these management plans. Think of it as a picture! I come to the other piece on the expenditure. The cost, the price they pay, will try to be as small as possible than the farmers. It will be symbolic - I tell you - in the face of the costs that this work will have. That is why we have anticipated, and there is the possibility under the Rural Development Programme, through the livestock fund, to see how we can obtain resources to serve what we want. The following question has been raised by many colleagues on local government: 'Why did you have the specific fee?' The costs required for them are not just multiples of the fee, but local government cannot withstand them. That is why, as we start our efforts, we have as a point of reference regional units, because that is what we want: Fifty definitive management plans across Greece. Because it's not just that you can make this process easier, but you're mostly answering the issue of distribution. Regarding the distribution of selectivity, as all of Greece was a region, you know what was happening. Now, through this process, we have said that we should limit ourselves to the limits of regional unity. That is the objective, and that is why you see that we give the region an essential role. From there on, there will be adjustments or corrections. And, of course, this process will involve local self-government, as will farmers also be involved in the process of allocating and monitoring implementation. It is completely different from the design and what requires specialized knowledge, which cannot in fact exist. One issue raised by many is the maintenance of facilities in livestock settlements, etc. We're not talking about prolongation. We are talking about maintaining the law of 2012. The Law of 2012 remains in force. We do not want an extension in this case. Article 17a is inserted as Article L. Date of birth: 4056/2012. We are simply trying to simplify the procedures and bring them to a point that we are setting as a horizon, to implement as quickly as possible. That's what we're trying to do. And this effort will also be made at the stacks, through interventions that we will be doing later. We will simplify the procedures because it has been shown that the problem is that the procedures are difficult and that is why we are going from an extension. I come to the other issue, which concerns propagating material, which has been strongly raised by many. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the European Union's operating treaty and not a regulation. This is our obligation. I can understand your concerns. However, the question is that I cannot reject this regulation. What we want and you are going to follow this process as strictly as possible. However, we are bringing it into regulation because we cannot make it any different. And you know, it's not just the matter of referring to the European Court of Justice. Many times follow the daily fine. We cannot tolerate this and accept it. I told you about the withdrawal of this provision on medicines. And I come to Article 19, ladies and gentlemen. At first, we had entered a process of drafting what we call 'provisional management plans'. At the same time, of course, we have also entered the procedure for the allocation of eligible areas. The allocation of the eligible areas has been made with this FCH, which you think we want to cover. This was the key point of reference for the allocations. The rights, tables and, of course, the technical solution will be posted tomorrow. And we come and say it very simple: because in this legislative process we were aware that we would be too late, we said that we would proceed with the assignment of the work of the temporary management plans. I made the decision as responsible political leadership and commissioned the specific jobs, which are in their completion. However, because there was this part of the legislative gap, we said very simply that the distributions were made on the basis of this CFD. When the law is published, however, the procedure for allocations based on the CSM is no longer stopped, because there will be no need to make distributions, but if there is one, I said this to you: let us say that in five or two, three regions there is a problem. We have here, through the temporary management plans, the possibility, when the rights are guaranteed for the next five years - not now but later - in consultation with the European Commission - that this has been the case - of covering it through what is reflected in the provisional management plans. I don't understand what it is that you say we're going to cover! We have said that we have given an artificial solution to the allocation of rights. What we're getting from is that we won't have any trouble. There's no way any farmer could have a problem with his rights or the liquidation he's getting. From there on, do we not predict the obvious that the law is being passed, that is to say, the FEK is published, and from now on is the law and not the CIA? The CPU did its job up to where it was supposed to be, and it's done. What are the wicked things you see in this process and have you raised the matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u86	Minister, please finish. You've been talking for 12 minutes already.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u87	I shall conclude, Mr President. I will repeat what we experienced last night, the almost unanimous acceptance of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u88	For one thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u89	Indeed, if we serve all those who have political responsibility, it will have real results for the space.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u90	Thank you. Mr Aygeakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u92	I'm sorry, Mr. Ausgarian. What do you want, Mr. Cyroney?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u93	I would like to make two additions to what I said, so as not to tire this House any longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u94	On some amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u95	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u96	You have the floor for two minutes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. I apologise on behalf of Mr Skourletis for being absent abroad. They are not my amendments. One is the extension of the quarries. Because an improvement took place, where it says ‘31-12-20’ will become ‘31-12-2017’. I think two years is too long for the state to review the quarry code. Also, in paragraph 4, where it says, "operated or operated", it should be set 'legally operating or operating', to close any slight suspicion that we are going to open the window for some illegally operating activities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u98	A little slower to understand what you're saying. There are many amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u99	In paragraph 4, he said, ‘... the restoration of the quarry environment, which operated or operated’. We will make this 'legally function or function' so that it closes any suspicion. Finally, with regard to Mr Papachristopoulos' concerns about whether he is currently opening the quarries window, which in industrial, etc., I would like to say this? Paragraph 2 states that a condition is environmental authorisation or its revision. So there's no such fear. Amendment 62(5), which is tabled to the Energy Act, is essentially - than Mr Skourletis informed me - purely formal legislative improvements that improve and make the law clearer on certain issues where there was ambiguity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u100	Mr Minister, please, the legislative improvements or the changes you have made to the amendments already tabled, you will be tabling them to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u101	Sure. I've informed Mr. Skourlet's office.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u102	To be submitted in writing, so that Members may also be informed. Mr. Ignace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u103	I hope, Mr President, that we too have the same tolerance that you have shown the rapporteurs, speakers and ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the bill of the Government entitled 'Bossible land and other provisions' by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL with only nine months' delay! It is a bill which is, in fact, a drawing of provisions drawn up by the Ministry in New Democracy during the preceding period. In fact, we have heard the Minister's advertisement, but also many SYRIZA officials, as a visionary, as innovative. As noted in the committees, the draft law is a recast of the 2014 legislative framework. I remind you: Law 4264 of May 2014, Law 4315 of December 2014. It's just in a new version. And I'm here giving a parentheses about how to legislate by SYRIZA - ANEL. Minister, it would suffice for a simple ministerial decision or an interpretative circular, because the 2014 legislative framework has finally solved the thorny grazing problem. If, in fact, there were no problems or delays, and the beneficiaries would have already been paid. The technical solution you defend, Mr Apostle, with passion is a crime and you know it very well. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we have only fourteen and fifteen amendments to the draft law we are discussing today, which is irrelevant to the content of the bill! What is happening today is not a parliamentary coup, as you would once say, when you were in opposition? I would remind you that last week the government tabled to Parliament a package of eleven acts of legislation, which it also incorporated three more amendments. So we don't forget. And all the time before the House was legislating under the urgency procedure. Minister, Mr Apostle, you said you were going to upset us in legality today you literally broke all the anti-parliamentary records and handed over with comfort lessons of anti-parliamentary behaviour and miserable legislative practice. So you bring us to debate a bill that recycles 2014 regulations at the same time, dear Mr Apostle, who opposes the measures that you, with your irresponsibility, bring them within a few days, what you yourself, not someone else, you yourself as Minister of Rural Development today, with an official press release of your Ministry on June 30, say "floor tone on the rural area. Unless you've also mutated yourself with the other SYRIZA strains. And I ask you, Mr Apostle: is it not today tombstone the increase in the rate of taxation from 13% to 26%, not only for income but also for subsidies? Is it not tombstone the taxation of agricultural subsidies that you for the first time tax with 13%? Isn't it a tombstone, Mr. Apostleu, an increase in tax advance from 55% to 100%? Are it not tombstones, is it, to increase the advance, but also to triple the insurance contributions of the OGA? Minister, did you not say in the run-up to the elections - I remind you - that you will implement a parallel programme and do not vote on these measures and that you would bring equivalents? Were you not speaking by election - I have seen it in your speech - of abolishing the obligation to keep books and data from farmers, of introducing farmers' tax for up to 12 000 euros, to abolish the ENPIA? Instead, even gradually and in a few months' time, you are legislating to increase production costs, to excessively increase insurance contributions, and for the first time, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, since our accession to the European Union, to tax all kinds of agricultural subsidies and aid. For the first time! And all of this - do not make delusion - is indeed, Mr Apostleou - and we agree on this - tombstone for the rural world. But we agree with the previous Apostle, not the one who is today. In addition to this, your government's disastrous policy and your own personal, Minister, also continues in the oil producers' sector, an important sector of the economy which, given the exceptional quality of Greek oil, could possibly make a significant contribution in the first place to the support of exports, the support of the region and the reduction of unemployment, the development of the economy, the support of the rural population burdened by the unfavourable taxes that come from them. But it is scandalous to sign on your behalf, Minister, for the import of olive oil from Tunisia, without duties, please. Such a tactic detracts Greek olive growers, as it pours to the nadir the prices of olive oil. Do you understand what you're doing? And don't move your hand. Many farmers are making a move in the hand of the mistake they made to trust you and, above all, to vote for you. But now it's too late! So do you realise what you are doing in domestic production, Mr. Minister for Rural Development, my words, according to the type of rural development? Do you realize the consequences of this policy? The introduction of Tunisian olive oil favours the Spaniards who can blackmail the market, but also dramatically compress the prices of the producer, the extra virgin olive oil produced by Greek farmers. Mr Vardakis, Member of SYRIZA, is well aware of this. I would also like to hear his opinion. Don't move your hand, please, Minister. You're not touching me. Be honest and honest with the farmers. Why, Minister, at the recent Agriculture Council on 16 November 2015, did you not even veto the debate on the further introduction of thirty-five thousand tonnes of olive oil from Tunisia to the European Union? Minister, in our view, your role is to defend the interests of Greek producers and not to defend the interests of Greek producers. Why did the Italian counterpart, my dear, have the courage to refuse, while you are a smooth man? You could do that for the benefit of the Greek olive producers. Why didn't you do it? It's the question. At the same time as the policy of delaying the payment of subsidies, you are necessarily driving producers to sell as much as, directly, the olive oil they produce. This results - and you understand - in the difficulty of achieving or creating better prices, leading to despair of the oil producers in our country. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to do your duty, that is to say, to defend the interests of the Greek producers. Why, first of all, are you representing Greek producers and you must protect, Mr Minister, not the Spaniards or the Tunisians. Unfortunately, the Tsipras Government, with its choices and its policies, destroys every creative, but also productive sector of the economy. Instead of supporting and strengthening the production of Greek products, it leads Greek producers to the catastrophe. Instead of supporting the excellent quality Greek products that have endured the crisis and enjoy international recognition, you lead them to destruction, especially in obscurity. Ladies and gentlemen, in short, we have the total denial of your antimony rhetoric. Do you remember it or did you forget it? All the things that's going on today, we've been telling you. We've been kicking the alarm bells for you. Instead, we have, unfortunately, received deceptive and sometimes slanderous answers. On the one hand, you have hallucinations about what you're doing and on the other, you resist a dangerous rhetoric... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr President, perhaps less. ... which has serious political, but also worthwhile consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion is one: every exaggeration, every extremeity, every dogmatic fanaticism at the end is avenged. The accident in your case is that Greek citizens are paying for it, especially Greek farmers and farmers. You will allow me to make a reference to one of the many amendments tabled, irrelevant to this draft law. And I am referring to it, the one by Mr Spirtzi, who is not here to defend her. I would ask that he be informed to come and defend his amendment late - please! - after the fiasco of the Friday, where he accepted the appointment not of one, not two, not three, but six directors and presidents of OSCE, STASH, OSH. Is that how you understand the reduction of the state? I imagine not, or at least we don't understand it like that. You are double, you are tripling jobs and wages, while we are cut from everywhere to save the Greek government's money. There, that is, the day before yesterday, when we had three people in charge - and the corresponding salaries - this amendment makes them six. Look out, six! Do you agree, ladies and gentlemen? Seats, seats, seats! Is that the left perception of the government and the state? Create many positions, many costs, many officials? I do not think the Greek taxpayer, who is currently seeing his income constantly falling, agrees, and the Greek farmer, much more. One more thing about this amendment, which I repeat that I ask Mr Spirtzi to come and defend her: the Independent Greeks, gentlemen of the ANELs, had disagreed with the committee, saying that this is contrary to the environment that we live in and shaped. Mr Papachristopoulos - if I am not wrong - had spoken, representing the ANELs, and even voted against it. Hence the fact that Mr. Spirtzis took it back, in the presence of the President of Parliament. What are you going to do today? Will you support this amendment? Did something change from Friday to today? Revenue increased, our state's wallet increased, so can we have multiple directors, CEOs and presidents?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Ausgekis, finish it up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u105	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'll report to the State General Accounting Office. How do you perceive math? Same thing is having three, and the same thing is having six CEOs and presidents? How, really, does the General Accounting Office say that there is no problem, no expense? How? If Mr Spirtzis considers that those who take over directors, directors or presidents will be voluntary, it is good to mention it in the amendment, which is not mentioned. If they too have to take a payroll, then it is incomprehensible what the General Accounting Office says, that there is nowhere to increase expenditure, because there is, because we are multiplying the positions of officers. With this, ladies and gentlemen of the second time, this whole scenario of perception, respect and reduction of the weaker ones is being abolished. Your tactics are extremely dangerous and you will do well to be serious, Mr. Apostleu.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u106	Mrs Katsavria-Siopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, please, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u108	Minister, what's the staff? You have a minute to show it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u109	The staff are that Mr. Aegakis was launched a coarse lie. Ladies and gentlemen, this chord of mine, particularly from the region of Crete, is incomprehensible. There is no decision in any institution to allow extra olive oil to be imported from Tunisia. On 17 September the General Affairs Council...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u110	From the service government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u111	What does it have to do with the Agricultural Policy Council on Election Election? So the General Affairs Council has opened a debate on this case. So there is no decision. The decision will be taken on 25 January in the international trade agreement and, of course, on 1 February 2016. What did the Minister present at the Council of Agriculture Ministers in November do? One key issue was - and I told you yesterday and I repeat it - relations between the European Union and international agreements in third countries. And there, from my side, I was the only one who said: “Be careful, we had it with the feta. Do not suffer it with the Tunisian olive oil!' I don't understand. No one else was placed. Where did you see her the opportunity for this? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u112	Minister, I think you have responded to the question raised by Mr Aygeakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u113	In other words, this is not acceptable!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u114	Mrs Katsavria-Siopoulou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for more than forty-five years the absence of political will, the legacy of legislation, ignorance, indifference and devaluation of the possibilities of Greek livestock farming had turned our country into a poor relative of Europe, a poor relative who demanded a few crumbs of Community aid, who envyed the rich of the North with the great negotiating power. The toil of the Greek farmer and the Greek farmer is not recognized. On the other hand, it is degraded within the dismantling of labour in favour of its Central European colleague. But, to say things by their name, is it just the EEC and then the European Union for the mess of the primary sector, for the mess of livestock production? The truth is that despite the fragmentary policies of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, some resources have been invaded from Europe. However, instead of claiming what the Greek producers were entitled to, we receive fines. Instead of taking advantage of the Greek peculiarities, the comparative advantages of the rural area and the labours of the Greek farmer, they made sure to slander the cooperative movement and eventually dissolve it and naturally substitute it with party and customer practices. When this happened, urban planning, town plans, the National Register, land use, forest mapping were left in words and were incarcerated, i.e. the former power parties did not even create a serious tool for a credible policy. However, even their coalition was unable to overcome the individual logic and practice of the New Democracy and PASOK. Remember the recent fragmentary bills of the Samara government, which, strangely and in high tone, were invoked by my colleague Mrs Arabatzi, in order to dismantle SYRIZA's arguments. I am referring to all this as a contribution to restoring memory and truth, but also because I believe that they are a minimally fair and sober criticism of those forces that have so far ruled the place. However, if not all farmers, at least the cow farmers would say to them: 'Where we were owed, they took the ox.'
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u116	Give them back, and then we'll talk about it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough to proclaim objectives, for example that we are seeking development. Concerted actions are needed to assist and support the strategic objectives. The National Strategic Plan for Rural Development already knows that. It is based on resources and tools, which for the 2014-2020 programming period have been guaranteed. The establishment of the National Geographical Database, the forecast for the management grazing plans, and the definition of grazing rights, come to effectively address the problem of grazing land for the first time. This draft law creates another extremely useful tool for livestock development, as the identification of grazing land will clarify the blurred landscape created by the overlapping of the responsibilities of the ministries and public services. The bill achieves a substantial reduction in the cost of production, an increase in the product produced while improving its quality, a reduction in the import of feed, meat and dairy products, resulting in an improvement in the balance of payments and an increase in the income of farmers and, finally, in the protection of the environment. It is well known, ladies and gentlemen, that production costs in Greece are higher than in other European countries. One of the reasons is the high cost of rearing the productive animals, as the main reason is that they are made by imported feed. It is therefore necessary to map and clarify the limits of grazing areas as soon as possible. This will result in the liberalisation of infrastructure projects related to them, creating more eligible areas. It is also clear that the reduction in production costs will increase the income of our farmers. In addition, the increase in pastureland will enhance the quality of the meat produced and milk products. It is said that everyone prefers to consume products produced by natural methods, without mutated feed, hormones or uncontrolled quantities of antibiotics. The definition of pastures will also help to preserve local breeds of productive animals, which we know are important to preserve. This bill will give a definitive end to the dispute over the status of grazing land, finally defining who is responsible and what obligations it has, clarifying the multi-ownership status currently in force. We must also stress that, with this modern tool, we are also achieving the harmonisation of our country at European Union level, because our farmers will be able to document and absorb Community subsidies. In addition, a legal framework will be created that will help farmers, but will respect the environment and sustainable development, as we must firstly bear in mind the future generations. It is clear that the implementation and implementation of the proposed arrangements require the synergy of four important factors, namely the farmers themselves, the municipalities, the regions and the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. I believe that the maximum effort must be made and, in fact, in a short time, so that our traditional livestock farming can go to a modern and more productive model. This bill is an intermediate station to this transition. The same belief is shared by the Carditsa farmers, whose prefecture I have the honour of representing. I am voting in favour of the bill in principle, in principle, in article and in whole. With these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u118	Thank you. Mr. Diaras has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin my speech with a reference to the 'International Climate Conference' held in Paris. It is absolutely necessary for the conference to succeed, in order to limit greenhouse gas emissions and not to exceed +2 Celsius at global temperature since 1850. This means a 40% reduction in emissions from 1990 to 2030 and a 90% reduction respectively. Apart from transport, buildings, industry, and even livestock production, it is involved in carbon dioxide emissions and other greenhouse gases. I have been talking many times about a sustainable economy and the features that identify a healthy and unconscious economy. One of these is decentralisation, administrative, economic and population. This means that there must be no further movement of rural population into the large urban centres. We need reverse movement. Big cities like Athens and even worse Cairo, Tokyo, with twenty and thirty million inhabitants, will collapse in a crisis of turmoil, whether financial or other kind of warfare. We are therefore talking about food self-sufficiency, strong local economies and a balanced economy in terms of productive sectors. All this helps to support the rural population as a priority. Farmers must be in good economic condition and have social benefits at their place, good health, good education, culture. The common agricultural policy, as agreed and in force, does not help either the balanced economy or the country's food self-sufficiency or the development of local economies with ecological and sustainable characteristics. Indeed, here we need to see how we change it, working with the other peoples of Europe too. The basic factor for the strong local economy and food self-sufficiency is support for farmers and farmers, more than what we are doing. The bill helps towards farmers' subsidies and it is necessary to vote. As an expression of the political ecology and a supporter of respect for life and other animal species, as well as natural food and animal grazing, I give particular basis to organic farming and livestock farming. I support the traditional livestock farming that I know firsthand because I am a farmer's child. Sensitive citizens have been respecting animal life, condemning the terrible conditions of productive animals, these animals that we have in cages since they are born until they die or are usually slaughtered. Free grazing, in line with nature, is indeed the right direction. Man needs to find the balance between the wise utilization of natural resources and respect for nature, what we actually say'sustainableity', because the term is often used without meaning its essence. Free grazing does not only reduce the cost of production, which is estimated to be 60% involved in foods. It also reduces the impact on greenhouse gas production, since intensive feed-producing crops consume many fuels and energy in general. So let us also see livestock with a view to sustainability and the gradual ecological transformation of the production process. I positively understand the value of voting as a measure contributing to the country's productive reconstruction. It is the framework for the further mapping, recording and distribution of pastures to farmers, in order to reach European Union aid to farmers and stop huge fines, such as the EUR 322 million for 2009-2011. I have asked, Minister, for some improvements to the bill on the basis of reservations made by the WWF, the forestists, etc. I had the assurance - and I saw, as far as I could see - that some of them have already been passed as legislative improvements. We need to understand the ideologists who go beyond their own economic interests and fight for the defence of nature, because in the committee you saw that all the productive forces that were directly involved in the exploitation of nature, but also the eminent regional masters, mayors, etc., saw this issue of forest protection only in a beneficial way. There are others who see nature protection beyond the short-sighted benefit. With regard to these changes which I requested, Mr Minister, I did not see whether, in paragraph 2 of Article 3, what I asked for, namely the sustainable management of flora and fauna, is to be removed from the 'uninterrupted use of grazing land for grazing purposes'. In addition, in paragraph 3, the first sentence shall be replaced ‘... for grazing land included in protected areas, grazing management plans shall be incorporated and revised on the basis of the management plans of the protected areas, with the main objective of sustainable management of the natural environment’. However, I have seen that in Article 8(2) you have just passed this for the preserved monuments of nature. I have a reservation, Minister, if the pilgrimage rights should go to the regions or municipalities. I consider that they should go to the municipalities, because I believe in the greater and better supervision of municipalities as local, because when we talk about regional units, we mean whole municipalities. A regional unit is the old county county we know about. I therefore think that these compensation paid by farmers must go there. Finally, I would like to refer to Article 12 for the aesthetics of the structures for livestock farming. I propose to the ministerial decision that these constructions should be made in line with the landscape's aesthetics and be with biodegradable materials such as wood, soil, stones, as our ancestors did. And if we're going to use materials like plates, panels, etc., at least cover up. Because we are a country where aesthetics still come from ancient Greece, which was so advanced in the issues of aesthetic cultivation. I also asked a question about the abolition of dangerous pesticides, such as Roundup. That is something we need to see, ladies and gentlemen. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The economy of natural resources, protection from climate change and the external trade balance, however, also require that we change eating habits. This means limiting the consumption of meat, which will help both our health and the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr. Dimitras. Mrs Drittelli has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. I had decided not to speak or to make any criticism of Civicism, especially of such a serious bill that has the potential to solve many problems and to give a breath to Greek livestock, but which seems to enjoy both the confidence and the vote of a large proportion of the political parties in the Chamber. But, indeed, the attitude of counterpopulation, especially in the New Democracy, is above rivers! Ladies and gentlemen of Officers, you don't eat, you don't drink! It is unbelievable that this thing that we have heard since yesterday, but also all day long, without some kind of self-criticism for all these problems that have arisen, especially in the field of livestock farming, which I think is the most unfair sector in recent years. In addition to being able to offer much to the Greek economy and the food adequacy of the country, Greek farmers have not had the Greek state at all, at least in the past twenty years. And I am referring to all areas. And yet, you come here and essentially address the whole thing to us for all these problems, as if all the troubles in the agricultural world or the Greek stockfarming were created and caused in recent months by the rule of SYRIZA - ANEL. You should come here and all together to support farms, support Greek stockfarming and say a "bravo" that the government's political leadership finally managed to pay for years' payments and compensation, indemnifications that had not even been paid since 2010 and before. Why, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, have you not paid for them all these years? Why did you really leave the Greek farmers without any help and support to try to carry out all these problems they had to deal with, especially the question of the pastures where they lost their rights, they lost their aid and saw many times die from various diseases, such as bluetongue which, on your own responsibility, then leadership - if I remember correctly Mr Tsautaris - had spread to almost all of Greece? So instead of that, you come here today and actually say that you had everything well burned and we came and destroyed them. I'm not going to go on. I think that the answer itself was given by the rural world and by the Genoa, and in June, and by September, by how well you have done it over the past few years and has shown to us his confidence in solving the very big problems. In the late days, then, speakers from Anti-Population, there is a lot of discussion about both the rural world and the rural economy, but also about its potential. We all agree on the need to upgrade Greek production, and to promote the strategic advantages in the critical field of the primary sector, while at the same time we have all pointed out the strengthening of nutritional adequacy, but also the productive reconstruction of the rural area at all levels. The Greek livestock farming is now at a marginal point with the cost of production having increased significantly, with the income of farmers shrinking, but at the same time with the dependence of the Greek market on imports to have increased dangerously. At the same time, our stockfarming has been removed from its strategic advantages, and today it is mainly stationed, which means that it often depends on the feed we import more than half a billion euros a year. These are all findings. All is well, we all agree. The question is who can give answers or what many years they have not given answers to all these problems. So to these problems, ladies and gentlemen, it comes to reply to this bill, which is acting and slowly putting a little stone on what we all call the 'productive reconstruction of Greek livestock'. This draft law attempts first to increase the livestock economy by reducing production costs. Secondly, the change in the production model and in the rehabilitation of imports is pushed. This effort is linked to the extensification of livestock farming, the rational management of available grazing land and its sustainable management obviously. The political leadership, the government, attempts to return to the Greek farmers the strategic advantages it has had for centuries, such as using mountain and mountain pastures available to the country, to be able to cohabit with the forest and produce a product based on grazing rather than the use of imported feed. This aim is in the right direction and can give a significant breath to producers, who are obviously quite rightly reflecting on several other issues of topicality today. A number of time-consuming problems are also resolved, such as the licensing of stack installations. This matter is regulated, for it was a great wound to the farmers who had been troubled for too many years. Finally, I would like to refer to the extension given to the operation of the Ministry of Rural Development's professional schools. They are really schools with incredible prospects and possibilities. I had the honour of visiting several of them. In the area of Kalambakas, where the wood carving school is located, I had the opportunity to visit both the students and to discuss with the teachers. The work that's done is amazing. There is demand from all over the country and from far away areas. A unique job is done, craftsmen come out excellent and exquisite, who are immediately absorbed into the labour market. So the continuation of these schools is in a very positive direction. However, I think it is time to stabilise their operation, without having to intervene in legislation every year, so that these schools can operate. Schools obviously need both teaching staff and infrastructure strengthening. And in this direction it does not help the fact that they are always under a temporary regime. It would be advisable for the Ministry to consider in this context the permanentisation of these schools and to lift the temporary status to which they have already been submitted by the previous government. In closing - and I conclude with this - I would like to stress that despite any opposition crowns and the dangers that are sometimes heard about SYRIZA and its strategy for the agricultural world, we are determined - and we have distributed it in all directions - to support the producers of the country at all levels. For both the farmer and the farmer, we will fight with all our forces so that the negative consequences of our compromise with the lenders are balanced by positive interventions, such as today, which substantially reduce production costs. We want the rural world to be side by side, while at the same time we want it to be at the same time, because we will fight with it and we are sure that we will succeed. Because the rural world must finally rip off all the dependencies that previous people have loaded on his back and those who are so hypocritically shouting today and shaking our finger. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Drittelli. Mr Davakis now has the floor, and then two Ministers have called for the floor to support amendments. Here, Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, with the same climate, which we of the New Democracy are now used to dealing with, there is a stitch of laws that had been voted on in this Chamber by this House and which could well have been implemented and not passed on the application of rights by January 2019, but had gone by 2017. The division, the divisive attitude, the "we and you" and all the things that make up the government rhetoric of our days have even arrived in the pastures. I am very sorry to see that, and all the Vice-Presidents of the opposition are aware of this divisive climate when - listen - this bill, which the government is doing, comes to change the primary sector of animal production and create a favourable outlook for the future, even when - and I have listened carefully to my previous colleague - the 2014 equilibrium is still pending. If we ask a farmer in Laconia, for example, he can't tell us whether there are management plans, if his rights are guaranteed today, what 'cassorship' means or what 'cassable earth' means today. We changed the name there, too. The baroque practice of ‘positions’, ‘troika’, etc. He comes to the pastures, too. We have now made them grazing land - it has not made us the pasture - and the problems that may arise, as Mr PASOK has just said, from the point of view of the European Union in terms of this terminology. I'm very concerned, honestly. And I'm troubled because today the Greek farmer finds the trains going through. Not only today, but also yesterday and during our times. We have to say it. But at the moment we did some positive actions. I do not want to resort to the 40-year-old historic event of the accession of the country to the European Union, which is a product - and I will always say - of this fact, but I want to say what we have done. Law 4264/2014 is a legislative product here. You are basically relying on it in order to bring 'new' today. What's new? What, as a stitch, are you presenting before us after twelve months have passed? Why don't you think the years of government order are four. And that, I think, you all understand that. The month is now a huge timeframe for any of us and especially for you rulers. There is no four years, no two years. At any time we can be led back to the popular verdict. Do not say we are late, late, late or late, when we have a year's frustration since the 'first time left' took over the fates of this place, and today we are here when Mr Apostle announced - let us hear - that on 15 December, our farmers will receive 1.5 billion euros of subsidies. Great fact! Great accomplishment, when all of them had paid the advances last year! You realize that doesn't make you better. The Greek people voted for you, to be better than us, the opposition, to become better at the teaching of opposition. This intercourse, which constantly emphasizes your thoughts, does not make you better. It makes you mislocated and makes you concerned with an empty letter of opposition, even now that you're government. About twenty articles, fifteen - sixteen amendments. Has it gone, Minister, to make an amendment to Neapolitan Laconia, which was burnt a few months ago? You were there - and thank you for that - but none of that. We are calling for tax exemptions for people who will not collect a pound of oil this year! Minister, I speak to you about Naples, where you had come a few days after the fire and made personal opinions. Could there not be an amendment to the fire-fighting areas - and I think that we are all in this Chamber right now - in order to get rid of tax burdens, HISPIA and many more of these people whose biodegradable catalyst a few months ago? I heard in committee that PASPEGES was not asked at all about the bill. You should ask her. In any case, whatever dimensions you may have with it, PASPEGES is an instrument that is a basic representation of the rural world. Why wasn't he in love? There were proposals for grazing and, unfortunately, nobody knows anything. As you know, some twenty - five thousand farmers have left the profession for the past five years. It is our country's livestock sector that could have a high-voltage perspective in recent years. And, unfortunately, because of oligopolysts, because of the incapacity, because of all those who are today the identity of the addresses of agricultural and animal production, it is with this great brake. Take a visit to the Agriculture Directorates, Minister, who, not today where you and yesterday are, are in this dramatic situation in terms of staff. What are you going to do about it? We know how to talk about models, about nutritional models, about biodiversities. Ask a Greek breeder what these concepts mean to him, when at the moment what goes on with the Greek farmer and the Greek farmer is basically his survival, it is basically the legitimisation of his Stalinary establishment. What are you going to do about them? We've been listening for many years. Today you should have some answers. At the outset, my dear colleague, Mrs Arapatzi, mentioned to you incentives through the NSRF to move the stadium facilities from the settlements. This would be an important option, not to bring the bill that the New Democracy voted for and to present as yours. That you could do and we would all applaud you. And I want you to listen to me, Minister. Bring a comprehensive bill that gives perspective and we will support it. But not be governed by the sense of intolerance and all those who make up your rhetoric for so long and for which, of course, your precursor was your service in the seat of the opposition. Pilgrimage, ladies and gentlemen, is an ancient case for the Greek territory. Fifty years ago, for example, we had about seventy-five million grazing lands, and today even 10% does not exist. Pilgrims contribute to biodiversity, contribute to environmental safety, contribute to the qualitative and nutritional value of products. Clearly we will vote for the bill in principle, but above all you must get rid of it, Minister and gentlemen of the government, of this style - I will not say the ethos, because I do not believe it - which goes on to you when you are addressing a great deal that has been integrating Greece into the European Union and which has been fighting for so many years in the European fora in order to achieve a better future for Greek farmers and farmers. Behold, the field of glorious glory! I return to my request for tax exemptions by means of an amendment to fire-fighting areas such as Naples, but also to all others that are a key lever for the development of animal production. The movement of grazing fees in the regions and underground relationships, which exist through secondment movements, etc. I feel it's not the right choice. I agree with Mr Dimitrak on his position. They have to stay in the municipalities. The municipalities know better than anyone else, because the cases of stadium and grazing areas are closer to them. I also agree with the EPP amendment, but the problem of vocational schools, Minister, is not solved by such amendments. Professional schools, such as Averofios of Larissa, such as the Dairy of the Ioanninas, such as wood sculptures in Kalambaka, such as the winemaking in Nemea, want important government intervention, because they can also constitute the future for agricultural production, for livestock production and for the Greek region through the thorough education of our farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, since they participated in the educational program "1974: The restoration of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd Athens Gymnasium of Experimental Gymnasium. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Since I had announced that Mr Vernardakis and Mrs Fotio will be given the floor to support amendments, Mrs Kafantaris will speak after consultation, and then the ministers will follow them to support their amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while in this Chamber we are discussing the draft law on grazing land, in Paris there is a great conference on climate under the auspices of the UN, a global conference on climate change. Requirement of the peoples, the times, the global community is to save the world and to sign a legally binding treaty that will replace the Kyoto Protocol after 2020 and will effectively aim to protect the planet in the conditions in which we are today. But because the climate change we are all talking about is not just wishes, seminars, films, etc., but are specific policies and actions, I think that today's position is not just about the anniversary part, namely that this is about Paris, etc., but also about the bill that we are discussing, which concerns the rural economy, which is about agricultural land and, more specifically, livestock farming. Because the 'climate change' factor has a significant impact on the issues of the rural economy, the primary sector and livestock farming, of course. If we all think and think that we agree that the primary sector of the economy is essentially a key factor in the reconstruction of our country and a way that, through its development, we will get out on the path of development, climate change brings significant risks, risks in productive sectors, in marine ecosystems, which will test the sustainability of fish stocks and their productivity. Rural production, with increased climate change, has a negative impact on food species such as wheat, maize, rice, which will become acquainted with reduced yields in combination with increasing nutritional needs and will undermine and jeopardise food safety at global level. Also, the issue of water, recycling of renewable water, as well as the reduction of groundwater reserves. Ladies and gentlemen, studies say that in southern Europe the decline in plant production is estimated to exceed 27%, which will be greater, if desertification risks are taken into account. However, the bill that we are discussing "Bossible lands and other provisions", as the Minister said in detail yesterday in his position, is important for what I said before, in relation to the issue of dealing with climate change and its consequences. It's very important because he's trying to put a class first of all in the primary sector and especially in livestock farming. It is no accident, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2015 there are so far no grazing plans. In 2015, debts have not been paid to farmers since 2008, especially because of the chaos that existed in relation to pastures. It is the first bill of the Ministry of Rural Development after four years. A serious attempt is being made to record and map pasture databases, etc. There is an attempt to harmonize with Community legislation, taking into account the specificities of our country, both with its geomorphology and with its embodiment. This draft law tries to solve things that had not been solved for years. It is dealing with adequate issues, without that implying that some improvements could not be made to individual ones. But - and here it seems that this government is really listening, as the Minister has also brought changes to medicines - a subject which has been raised here in Parliament by fellow Members, and so on. - and within this wide-ranging process, which also took place at the level of committees and society, there were several changes. This really shows the different nature of this government, which is open to dialogue and to the adoption of improvements. In this context, therefore, I, too, am tabling a number of proposals by the Ombudsman in a press release and a letter which he has sent to the relevant Ministries, which mentions a number of comments concerning the printing of pastures, issues relating to forestry legislation, grazing, the question of extending livestock facilities and an integrated approach to livestock holdings, in line with the corrections of livestock zones and parks and many more. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Charula (Haras) Kafantaris, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, there has been an amendment tabled by the Minister responsible before - he is rather a substitute for Mr Skourletis who signs it - on the quarries. We will expect the government not to continue what has been done for years, when there was no order, when the Latin Code has not been revised until now and all that. So we will wait for the extension for two years really to complete the Latto code and that will be very important. And the administration must actually make use of proposals which exist in the ministries and really move on to this Latto Code. I would also say because there are many questions, etc. within this area, which is important in the country's productive reconstruction, that there are problems of anarchy and illegality and environmental violations, etc. A big issue and - if you like - a great deal of bet for the government at all levels - and especially here - is the strengthening of the control mechanisms. In other words, control over the permits, environmental studies, all of which apply to quarrying, and of course - I repeat - the new Quaestor Code in two years' time. However, I cannot, ladies and gentlemen, comment on the role of Disarmament in general and what we have heard yesterday and today in Parliament. I would say - as I have said before - that we have a government that listens to it, which consults the institutions, which has real dialogue and society. However, it is not possible for the New Democracy rapporteur to mention in her position 'the army that has been reserved for us by the Government on 14 August'. And I ask you, didn't you vote for this so-called "strapcho"? Why, that nerve? And I'm not talking personally just because there's been a lot of noise in this Chamber. This is an agreement which you have voted on, the implementation of which we as a government are implementing laws. So why would I say that disgusting?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u126	We remained in Europe because we voted. And you're telling us why you're breaking up?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u127	In fact, when we discuss a bill, which you will vote on, parts of the anti-population will also be voted on. We also accept criticism, of course, and the Minister, as I said, is open and better proposals and all that, but we do not accept hypocrisy. It may be annoying - what the Minister said again - that 1.2-1.5 billion will fall within the Greek countryside in December...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u128	You don't know what you're saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u129	Because faithful to our commitments we are actually moving our country out of the crisis and from the policies that have led us here today. At this stage too, consent is needed. We're not talking about consents like that, general. Compromises with criticism and with a contribution, national contributions right now to get out of the situation in which we have come. No opposition logic just to oppose, when the opposition forgets - because the Greek people are not a loot - what they voted for on 14 August. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u130	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u131	What do you want, Mrs. Arabaji? You want the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u132	There's been a reference to my face for disgusting turmoil...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u133	Mrs. Arabaji, you said so this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u134	Isn't it disgusting? It will be judged by the Bureau. I have the floor, Mr President, why are they trying to substitute you here? Do I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u135	Here, Mrs Arabatzis, you have the floor for a minute to refer to the personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u136	Mr President, I will be very brief. Indeed, I spoke of a soldier on 14 August, and I continue to say so. We voted on the country's euro stay. We did not negotiate, we did not agree with the heaviest memorandum that you brought us after seven months of insolence. We voted, as a responsible political party, which believes in the country's European perspective, on the country's euro stay. You said at the same time that the measures that are coming will be brought to light by the error of the equivalents, Mrs Kafantaris. For the two billion you claim, which farmers and farmers expect...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u137	A billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u138	It's two billion, Mrs. Kafantari. One is now the deposit. Maybe you don't know them that well. These 2 billion Community funds were therefore one of the reasons why we had to vote for the country's euro stay to call on the heaviest memorandum of 14 August, always with the prospect of the equivalents that this government has promised. Thank you. That's for the covetousness.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Venizelo, you make sense to me, I know. I'm talking about this House. It is customary when former Members of Parliament also ask for the floor, to be given to them immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u141	No 'approximate', the Rules of Procedure say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u142	All right, let's invoke the Rules of Procedure. We're not doing you a favor. Okay, it's not a favor thing, Almond! I want to say one more thing. I say this because I have already said twice that the ministers will intervene to support amendments. I have twice announced the names of Mr. Bernardakis and Mrs. Fotio. That's what I'm saying. Otherwise you have the floor for eight minutes. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u143	Excuse me. Thank you, I'll take him. The open meeting of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, which I have come from, is due. I've asked questions, I have to get back. I call for the understanding of the Ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u144	Understood. Good. Mr. Minister, please for your tolerance. So you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u145	Ladies and gentlemen, grazing land has meaning, under Article 24 of the Constitution, when it comes to an integrated agricultural and livestock policy, which at least does not constitute a reduction in the available agricultural income. It is not an integrated agricultural policy that the threat to farmers' taxation and the attempt to overthrow the social security framework. Talking about such issues presupposes that the country has a strategic framework and a government capable of exercising its responsibilities. Unfortunately, the country has neither a strategic framework nor a government with elementary governance capacity. The question is: why has Prime Minister Tsipras in recent days triggered political tension in allegedly seeking consensus? Who provoked the meeting of the parties' leaders, who had this counterproductive ending? Who is it that fed the scenarios for the resistance of the parliamentary majority? Mr. Tsipras himself. In fact, he did, because he does not want a consensus or a change in the narrow and heirly governmental shape of SYRIZA - ANEL that leaves him politically uncontrolled. It pursues other things: He seeks the blackmailing of his site, to vote for unpopular and difficult regulations, regulations worse than those that SYRIZA spit in the past years in the climate of anti-memorandum demagoguery and now exposes them and licks them as absolutely necessary. It seeks to incriminate the Anti-Population that wants to make it co-responsible, by subtracting its vote to the best of the case, or at least by highlighting a picture of netting responsibility, for example by reminding, for older pension cuts and, above all, by recalling the positive vote in the general context of the third memorandum, the agreement of 12 July and the text of 14 August. Except this isn't about it. It is challenging and irresponsible to compare the state of the country in October 2009, the need for fiscal measures in 2010, 2011, 2012 and different to talk about a country that was in a completely different situation in December 2014 and, due to the governance of SYRIZA - ANEL, in December 2015 is in a totally downgraded position, having lost a very large part of the acquis of the sacrifices of the Greek people. Today is December 1st. It is a good opportunity for the Greek people to compare the climate, the atmosphere, the level, the expectations that existed 12 months ago, just before the previous Parliament was dissolved due to a failure to elect a President of the Republic. Let each one think about when we were better and when we're worse. Today we're better or worse? Apparently, much worse. So the cuts now made, the tough measures, the Memorandum Policy are all yours, ladies and gentlemen, Members of SYRIZA and ANEL. Your policy has made them necessary. And you want to talk about the top example, which is the example of insurance? Why is it that Mr Tsipras' choice is to bring together in a legislative package the direct budget cuts, which are necessary in the context of the resolution of the new 2016 budget, with the great - supposedly - structural change in the insurance system? Why do we have to make a rough, sloppy institutional change of the insurance system, and we cannot separate the two issues? Did the troika impose this on us? Oh, no. Because the acceleration of procedures, this sense of urgency, pressure from outside works as a vehicle, to pass changes that alter the image. They give a picture - supposedly - of reform that is not supported by the Opposition. Under recession, according to the new data from the Statistical Office, and the growth in unemployment, can you talk seriously about new insurance as a structural change? But the big issue is what the country is spending, as national spending and as public expenditure, on the insurance system. If GDP increases, then you have a much greater potential for absolute numbers to strengthen your social policy and social security agencies. When GDP decreases, of course, the proportion of national and public expenditure increases and the potential for making resources available in this direction is limited. If the macro-economic environment was different, if the dynamics of the economy were that we had 12 months ago, we could in a completely different way handle insurance, not as a matter of budgetary cuts, but as a matter of the future of the country, in conjunction with the tax system. Because if you do not combine insurance with taxation on capital intensities, if you do not combine the existing structure of insurance with a new concept of its professional funds, if you do not talk about a completely different way of exploiting the property and reserves, you cannot have a solution that is reliable and, above all, if you do not find resources, such as the resources that we made available to the Generation Solidarity Fund, from the future exploitation of the country's mineral wealth. So it is important to answer your question: why did we actually vote in July and August? We voted because there was no majority anymore. Because the government did not have enough Members. Because some fifty Members of the then parliamentary majority disagreed and organised another party. We voted for the country to remain within the framework of the European Union and the Eurozone. We have, in fact, voted without guarantees, without institutional and political conditions. Because when you're dealing with such forms of political humiliation, when you're dealing with such raw power managers without any political and worthy content, you have to bind them in terms. What we did, however, as Opposition, did not honour it by the government and, above all, did not honour it against the country. He didn't negotiate and he doesn't negotiate anything. What happened at the banks, namely, the depletion of the portfolio and, therefore, of the public's property, the leftover of the banks, is an old plan, if anyone reads the opposition texts of Mr Varoufakis. But it is at the same time the sample of what it means 'I give the false impression of a supposedly hard negotiation and I retreat from a preamble to everything'. That's how it happens in insurance. Don't negotiate any more, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Is opposition inconsistent and anti-reformist? And who says that? This is what some government opponents who express genuinely modernistic views are saying, but who are addressing what opposition? In our opposition, which has spawned six years on fiscal adjustment and reforms? After all, this is not about reform. The question is demagogy at institutional level, when you call on the parties' leaders and tell them "Come on, wish everyone that pensions will not be curtailed any longer". You do not say to them 'come to agree to launch a process of serious study and reform of insurance with a prospect of recovery of the economy'. You say 'Come together and formulate a national demagogy so that the government can hide its bourgeoisie behind this national demagogy'. So is the opposition counter-reformist that separates its position when we are not talking about anything essential? And, of course, what is much more important is to remember here the improper hatred of debt haircuts and debt restructuring in 2012. And I would understand that if we were in 2012, 2013, 2014, but now that you are on the forefront of the supposed debt negotiation, in order to achieve the complement of the 2012 regulations, it is not politically wrong, but national, negotiating crime to question the intervention made in 2012. Because this is your framework, your argument, your acquis, the only basis on which you can bring more. It is something that the country would take anyway, but I hope it does not get lost through the way you are supposed to negotiate, and in fact you are retreating to the state and harming the core of the national economy. It is therefore the responsibility of the PSI to say all the tone of the political speech, by the President of the Republic, who goes beyond the constitutional limits of his speech, that Mr Kammenos, who, in the well-known style, wants a committee of inquiry and Mr Tsipras, wants a committee of inquiry. Yes, there should be a committee of inquiry on the first, second and third Memorandums, on debt cuts, on debt restructuring, on the recapitalisation of banks. The Committee of Inquiry should be reconstituted, which after great celebrations you have made in the previous House. To look at them all for historical reasons, for pedagogical reasons and why the afflicted Greek people who suffer sacrifices must have a good time and laugh at their lips from the inconsistencies and lies which will, of course, prove to be superfluous in such a process. You have to go ahead. And you need to explain to us why you received the 11 billion euros of the CFS in February 2015, why you gathered within your stress the cash reserves of the insurance funds and all the legal persons of public law and general government and you've made them repos and tactical notes and there is no prospect of restoration of the cash reserves, because you increased the debt with your management movements, and why, of course, you are now favouring the national negotiation with what you say in relation to the PSI and the 2012 intervention. You will see her with the chili and you will worship her when we have the debate on the result of the negotiation, which I hope you will do better than you have done all the previous ones. I will only remind you of what your "big" negotiator of the previous period, Mr Varoufakis, said on 25 October 2011 about the need for Greek institutions to also get tired of the big haircut of the country's foreign government debt, when he had not yet discovered the theories in which Mr. Tsipras mired later. Take Mr. Varoufakis in his version of October 2011, a strong supporter of the PSI and the haircut and the bonds of the funds. What haircut? This is a transfer of funds from the funds to the State which finances the funds. Because the state accountancy took EUR 13.5 billion and has so far given EUR 65 billion. And, of course, you can say in the structural change in insurance that the annual grant will also include a section pertaining to these EUR 13.5 billion, which is the common property of state and insurance funds, common property of the general government. What do you think? What are you talking about? Has the IKA administration not told you that using the PSI increased the IKA, the largest social security institution, its portfolio? How dare you say that? Get through the recent article a summary of arguments made by a neutral, cold analyst, Mr. Tyropoulos, about what is actually happening with the reserves of the insurance funds, and come and talk about what happened in insurance. But that's not all. We have a Prime Minister who has managed to link the economic negotiations for the memorandum to foreign policy and address the refugee with issues of structural change or budgetary cuts, such as the ones concerning insurance. What's the result? What did Greece win at the recent European Union-Turkey summit? Turkey knows very well what it has achieved. It has gained the upgrading of its institutional relationship with the European Union, two summits a year, accelerating the visa liberalisation process. It has taken the three billion euros to manage them properly, and it will regulate the flows, refugee and immigration. Why has Mr Tsipras not raised the question of floating location and distribution centres, the hot spots which I have proposed, under the responsibility of the European Union and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, which will simply be berthed on the Turkish coast, so that real refugees can be transported not through Greece, but through any accessible European port? And mercy now with the diligences, amateurisms, lack of historical consciousness and knowledge on foreign policy, as was done in this tragic case of tweets exchanged between the Greek Prime Minister and the Turkish Prime Minister. What happened there? In what framework of foreign policy, exploratory around, confidence-building measures? All clipboards! It's all bulk! They also affect fundamental national interests. So the question, ladies and gentlemen, is not whether the opposition wants another government and what government, if there are scenarios. The question is how it feels, how the government itself feels.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Venizelo, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u147	Go ahead, take your responsibility, rule. But to God, stop "negotiating" as you supposedly negotiated for the Memorandum, where we entered "single" for no reason, for the banks, for the insurance, for the refugee. Pleasure this country!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the top Western theories there are attending the meeting, twenty-three students and students and two teachers attending the 2nd Athens Experimental Gymnasium. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Four Ministers have called for the floor to support their amendments. Mr. Vernardakis, Mrs. Fotio, Mr. Friend and Mr. Stathakis entered a series. I think two minutes is sufficient time. Mr. Vernardakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u149	I will have a delightful role to go back to the bill under discussion after Mr Venizelos's speech, which was entirely unrelated to the bill, but nonetheless useful. I'll talk for two minutes. I would just like to make a comment on some previous remarks on the amendments. Yes, there is indeed a legislative issue and we need to recognise that. But on the other hand, we must recognise that legal, administrative, technical and other 'ourours' to many open issues are now huge and, unfortunately, the House does not legislate under normal circumstances. In this sense, it is something that we obviously have to deal with. It is not a pleasant situation to have amendments to a bill based on another subject. However, it is urgent that some provisions should be taken into account. It is, however, a very serious open issue and as Deputy Minister for Administrative Reform I would like to believe that we will have to correct it very soon. Such an amendment, which I am obliged to support today in the draft law that we have before us, concerns the extension of individual contracts of employment to the cleaning services of public services buildings, independent authorities, legal persons of public and private law of Otta, universities and other bodies, which were extended until 31/12/2015, but which the operational needs require that these individual contracts be extended until 31/12/2016 so that they too remain in their work, but also that a permanent operational problem that concerns all these services is covered. I merely clarify from the proposed provision that you have before you that all kinds of services...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u150	Tell us the numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u151	Yeah, excuse me, so you can see it. The number is 87. I shall read to you a small correction that exists: ‘For the cleanliness of the public services buildings, the independent authorities, the legal persons governed by public law, the legal persons of private law and the OTAs, and all types of cleanliness services of OTAs shall be automatically extended until 31-12-2016, the applicable individual contracts and any individual contracts which have expired for up to 30 days before the entry into force of this Law by way of derogation from any other provision.’. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u152	Thank you. Mrs Fotou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u153	These are two amendments. The first amendment is number 71. It concerns the continued operation of Supported Living Housing Plants. As you know, Mrs Marku, we also consider that the Supported Living Housing Housing for disabled people, which are characterised by mental deprivation, is an extremely important institution and we want in every way not only to support them now, but we will also join the new NSRF - which has already left for the regions - our proposals and which, within the days, will go to the European Commission for consultation. With this amendment, therefore, it is possible for the Supported Living Housing Houses to continue operating in the municipalities, in the OTAs, and even to extend their operation until 31-12-2016, so that they can join the new NSRF. The second amendment under number 86, which has seven articles, deals with similar topics, always. The first two articles concern 'Help at Home'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u154	We don't have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u155	Hasn't he been filed? Has the Members not been given?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u156	I'll explain it to you and then you'll get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u157	We don't even have Mr. Bernardakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u158	None.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u159	I'm sorry, Minister, as they say, he hasn't been filed either by Mr. Bernardakis or...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u160	But Mr. Vernardakis explained. I'm not gonna stop now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u161	I'm sorry, so we don't get any confusion. As far as I'm concerned, the Services have been filed. They simply haven't been distributed to the Members. Immediately, now, they'll be distributed. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u162	I would therefore say that the first article and the second article of Amendment No 86 relates to 'Help at home'. The financing of the “Help at Home” programme is guaranteed, the full coverage of the expenditure required and the uninterrupted and effective implementation of the above programme, to the first, until 31-12-2015. These are the ones in the first amendment. The second is guaranteed by the state budget for a year of "Help at Home" and says exactly where the money is from. The lack of money for the first amendment was five million until 31-12-2015 and 56 million is for the second amendment, which is for the whole of 2016. "Help at home" is an excellent action of the previous NSRP. About three thousand workers are employed there. We have supported this in every way. We also found the money and we can guarantee it for time. Meanwhile, in consultation and with workers, we want to integrate similar actions funded by the NSRP and not financed by the NSRP - from the state budget, as this is the case - into a large primary care network for the elderly - which we will study all this year - and for vulnerable categories of people, as you know. These are the first two articles in Amendment 86. The third article concerns poverty structures. Poverty structures, which are also doing an important project, are designed to enter the NSRP 1420. At the moment, all poverty structures are being financed by the state budget - there are a thousand and fifteen workers - by 31 June where all this will have already been incorporated into the new ESDP. So we do not create any gaps in the functioning and financing of these structures, which we consider to be extremely important and urgent. Article 4 concerns a clarification on the question of the payroll of civil servants and civil servants, namely those who take up office as chairman of the board of directors of one of the twelve Social Welfare Centres, namely, the CFP as you know. We give them the right to choose between all the remuneration of their organic position and all the remuneration of the president of the CI. I mean, we don't say anything new. He may take what he was getting up to that moment or exactly what the position of the President of the CFP is. The next - number 5 - concerns the clarification and safeguarding of resources that will finance the operational needs of hosting hostels for women victims of violence by the National Centre for Social Solidarity, EKKA, for a certain period of three months again until they are integrated into the 2014-2020 programming period. As you can see, all the amendments are in the same logic, namely, whether a financial gap is created until they are incorporated in order to guarantee workers. Obviously, funding from the state budget ceases from their accession. Article 6 concerns camps in the state programme. When we give the money to camps, the municipalities that collect the money and have a debt, or tax or insurance funds, risk not being able to collect it. We therefore give the opportunity here to collect the money specifically for the camps of the state programme. And the latter concerns Law 5101/1931, which gives the Minister of Labour and me, the Deputy Minister of Labour, the right to make fundraisers. What's our problem? Today we want to make big fundraisers all over the country because now Greek foreigners and others are interested in strengthening the country. This cannot be done by simply opening a national account, but we give credit institutions the opportunity to make these fundraisers under the cult and approval of the Minister of Labour at all times. I think it's an excellent case. We intend to make such a story about school meals. We already have many millions, who are waiting to join this program and we believe it will be of great importance to the great programme that we are planning for school meals in 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Philly, get ahead of you. You have the floor. You can also say the number of amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u164	Sure. Thank you, Mr President. As we have announced in the process of programming declarations, and as we said yesterday, the government is moving on to a national social dialogue on education, so that there can be consensus on mature major problems in order to tackle the current problems through a viewpoint that responds to this current reality. So leave behind stereotypes and anachronistic attitudes that have so badly damaged the education area. Each political force, of course, will have its views, but we can find a common place to deal with these issues. We will come back to the issue of national and social dialogue several times and more organized and through the framework of the Parliamentary Committee on Forums and the National Education Council, which is also reconstituted by the Dialogue Committee set up by Professor Liako. However, during these months, there have been urgent operational issues that need to be addressed. For example, there must be a ministerial decision, and there must therefore be legislative authority for this decision, which determines the percentage of graduates in the university and TEI exams. You know that exams will be carried out this year with both the old system of six lessons and the new system of four lessons. It is a timely amendment with a general number 58 and a special 1. The second amendment concerns decisions which do not need to be made public in the FEK by the Secretary-General for Lifelong Learning and New Generation. It's the general number 64 and special 7. In this respect, now, with the amendments to the delays - it is two - the first, with a general number of 84 and a special number 27, it concerns the question of the selection of new training directors in primary and secondary education, as well as certain issues relating to funding in the field of IEK.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u165	That's what you said you wouldn't bring it. How did you bring it? You've remorsefully caught us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u166	No, no, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u167	First you say about national dialogue and then you bring through the window...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u168	You're wrong. So I repeat on these issues, the amendment is the general number 84 and specific 27. There is one issue in the issues concerning the selection of training directors. Current training directors have repeated extensions of their terms. The term of office of training directors cannot be extended by extensions. There's got to be a choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u169	There was the law of Kourakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u170	The choice we make, because we have heard the debate that has taken place before and after, is through a synthesis of criteria which relate to the educational establishment and the scientific formation and training of candidates.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u171	You're degrading them with the interview.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u172	This will be valued with eleven units and standardized, such as degrees, postgraduate, foreign languages. The second set of criteria concerns the service and administrative experience and the teaching experience of candidates for training directors. The right thing is, it's gonna be fifteen units in this case. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] The third criterion relates to the applicant's contribution to the educational work, to the general personality and to the general composition of the candidate. There is also the question of the secret ballot provided by Mr Kourakis' law, but it is not an exclusive criterion. It shall be valued by a maximum of 12 units only after a secret ballot. If one does not raise 20% of the valid votes, it will not be excluded, but will continue the process and will simply be devolved, while the old law was excluded. A question of constitutionality has been raised here which we have taken seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u173	Who are they going to give the interview to?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u174	This is not a bill for education.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u175	And the third criterion, which is not just the question of voting, is the interview. Thirteen committees are set up throughout the country, so that there is a rapid handling of a loose end in which, as you have seen, they are involved on merit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u176	The regional councils will be appointed by you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u177	You put them out the window.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u178	Don't yell, so I can finish. Listen first. There is no need for the deep state to shout in the hall.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Constantopoulos, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u180	You'll talk right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u181	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u182	Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u183	So the choice is made in a remarkable way, read the amendment in detail, so that I am not extended because I have spent the time. One thing I want to say is that the opposition has the right to oppose it. Alas! That's her role. But before he talks, he has to think about what he has done, what he has done with both versions of government in the recent past. Our proposal is a proposal, I repeat, composition, merit and consensus in the field of education. It is not a proposal to impose a party state, as was the case before.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u184	...with the law of Kourakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u185	We're done now. The last amendment - I said that the previous one concerning training directors and the Institute for Education Policy has a general number of 84 and a special 27. We are now going to the other amendment with a general number 83 and a special 26 on current issues, you will see it, of permanent primary and secondary education, such as transfer time and other related issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u186	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u187	Now, I will submit to the Minutes of the House, after I read the legislative improvements to Amendment No 84 and a specialist number 27 soon. It's in the draft law on grazing land and other provisions. Legislative improvements concern: in the case of (a) paragraph 4 of Article, the last (fifth) subparagraph of (a) in the case of (b)(5), (a) in paragraph 2, the first subparagraph of paragraph 3 of Article 16A added by Article 6, and the words relating to publication in the FEO are deleted. At the end of paragraph 2 of Article 20 of the Law. Article 3848/2010, as replaced by paragraph 8 of Article and a subparagraph is added, paragraph 11 of the article which is also replaced, as well as in paragraph 12 of Article 12, topic relating to the valuation by 15 units of the service status of the guidance and administrative experience not more than. I'll submit them to the Minutes for there to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u188	Bravo!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u189	Finally, we are not satisfied with the inclusion in a bill on other issues of education. But you are aware that this government, which legislates under the particular situation of not continuing a regime, is not a continuation of previous governments, is forced, without circumventing the House, to legislate in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u190	This should be part of the Ministry of Education bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u191	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Constantopoulos, that's not productive. You don't record or anything. It's just a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u193	I shall conclude, Mr President. I repeat: The overall debate on education will be conducted with a view to consensus and understanding on the part of the government with the other political parties and social forces. However, the debate on emergency operating problems cannot take place any longer. For example, exams will be carried out. We cannot have clearly closed the scope of the introductory examinations from now on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u194	Remove excellence, remove everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u195	We had brought a bill on the relocations. Bring in a bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u196	Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u197	It is also obvious that the mechanism of education which persons are leading with a clear mandate and through procedures of merit, because these persons, the training directors, have to take on the sensitive issue of conducting the examinations, the mechanism to function. So we mustn't leave them later, postpone these decisions. To conclude, I would like to say that as you can see from the development of the amendments, the government is going to debate and hearing issues that are raised in other respects and improving amendments and regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u199	What is the point of a procedure, Mrs Marcus?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u200	I would like to ask you, when each Minister goes up to Stepma to talk about an amendment, before the amendments have been shared, to know what it is about. In this case they have now come. You have taken the floor, Minister, and we did not have the amendments in our hands. I would ask that we have the amendments first and then that each Minister should speak to know what this is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u201	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u202	Wait, Minister. To intercede with one of the speakers and then take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, if I may, I would now like to take the floor to conclude this procedure of amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u204	All right, Minister. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u205	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u206	Do you disagree to give the floor? If you disagree, I give the floor to the speaker. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, the amendments and additions I am tabling have already been discussed in the Committee on Production and Trade. I'm not bringing you the new one. It is multimodal with a general number 77 and a special number 20. He's been filed. It concerns matters of land resurrecting and magnifying farms. It's a problem he's been dragging himself for years. Land has been allocated to farmers and they have not been given titles of ownership. There are issues of management and particularly of the property protection of the Ministry of Rural Development, because we are currently in a record and have to deal with them. There are issues relating to kept and stray pet animals for their protection, issues relating to the marketing of fertilisers and, of course, the rules on the extension of livestock facilities. That's the one case. The other two additions are as follows: One is the one related to the clearance of expenditure for 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and concerns checks of the Ministry of Rural Development and the other is the known addition concerning recovery. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat one thing. None of us are the ones who want to seek money from farmers, who have been paid unlike what the European Commission demands. It's too big a problem. Saying that we will recover one and two and three million, it is something that the Ministry of Rural Development could deal with. The figures here are too large. We are in a process of discussions, negotiations with the European Commission. Somewhere we've reduced them noticeably. We are continuing this effort, but for their part they are asking us to show that we are going to do something. What, then, are we asking today? Because it is a lot of money, at least it should be provided by a joint ministerial decision of the Minister for Finance and the Minister for Rural Development and Food, how these issues will be handled. We won't avoid the bitter glass. And keep in mind that the bitter glass we'll all drink together. And what we hope is that our country will finally stop these financial corrections, these allocations.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, I would ask the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u209	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u210	Because they tell me that the numbers of the two late-amendments were not well heard, I repeat them. One is a general number 83 and a special number 26 and the other is a general number 84 and a special number 27. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u212	Mr. Jellonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u213	As rapporteur, when I was put in my prototype this morning, the amendments were fourteen. Now, so far, I think twenty-two have arrived. In my prototype, I also used the time of dentistry to place myself on the bill. I would like us to have the opportunity, following the position of the speakers, to have a second word as rapporteurs on the specific amendments that many have to do with the bill and others that we do not need to name. We therefore call for time for dentistry after tabling the amendments which now exceed the number at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u214	We're asking for it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u215	Mr. Gregos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, this bill continues with the amendments. The bill has eighteen articles and the amendments have reached twenty-two or twenty-four and may be much more. And of course this system will continue in the next bills. And the appropriate ministers are trying to enlighten us and the Greek people. Of course this cannot be done. A moment ago the Minister responsible spoke to us and invited us to a national dialogue on education. Of course, as long as he is a responsible Minister, we as Golden Dawn cannot hold any national dialogue on education. It brings some amendments, but it knows very well, as we all know, what the enormous problems of education are right now. And we're talking about staff, about the situation in schools, schools that don't have computers, they don't even have pre-eminences so students can see any material. There are, of course, some solutions which do not relate to economic measures. Some upgraded computers, Minister, to leave some banks and go to schools to serve students, are very easy. Here too, it seems the huge chaos that really exists between public and private education. And of course until you decide whether or not you finally 23% of the VAT on private education will be done, the school year will be over. These are the issues of education. I am going to make a small comment - because that is the way - on the relevant tweet that Mr Tsipras put up on pilots. I think it is very insulting to the families of Greek pilots who have been lost on duty, to make such announcements on the Internet. As regards what Mr Venizelos said about Turkey, Turkey was really getting and will always get what he wanted. Our position is clear and it is not only the Golden Dawn, it is also the position of the entire Greek people and thankfully the European citizens: Turkey has nothing to do with Europe, Turkey can only take nothing from Europe. And what he's given is only a disaster. I should like to welcome from the Step of the House that the members of the Agricultural Association, whose inauguration took place in Agrinio, and invite the Greek farmers to address the local organizations of the Golden Dawn, in order to serve these associations, because we and the Greek farmers are really tired of obeying the knits of the sold-out agricultural trade unionists. Golden Dawn speakers have said that we are importing concentrated milk and throwing our own on the road. It's newspaper articles. But Greek producers appeal to the Ministry to be threatened with extinction. They write: “You will disappear us if nothing happens. The import of concentrated milk has broken record.’ In Greece 31.3% of farmers are over sixty-five years old, while 24.9% are fifty-five to sixty-four years old. In the European Union 50% are over fifty-five years old. These are elements of EUROSTAT. And they conclude that the agricultural land is no longer in Greek hands. As far as the amendments are concerned, I shall mention what I have to say, Mr President, quickly. With Amendment 58/1 you are asking that the Minister of Education should be authorised to decide the percentage of the posts of the departments and higher education schools, which will be attributed to the graduates of the previous years who will be chosen to compete with the system in force in 2014-2015. We disagree with this amendment, because there is no point in what HEIs and TEIs themselves will say about this matter, which is directly concerned with them. We are voting against it. Amendment 59/2 - I do not know whether any of them have changed numbers - an extension is given until 31 March 2016 to ERT to draft and publish its first corporate status of 10-10-2013 until 31-12-2014. Along with ERT they take the same extension, as far as the income tax declaration is concerned, and all legal persons. This may be the case for reasons of equal treatment, but this is not mentioned anywhere in the amendment. We are voting against this amendment, not only because we do not want to support the creation of a SYRIZA party state, but also because we do not want to create a bad precedent for all legal persons in terms of a statement of income tax. We are voting against Amendment No 60/3. Amendment 64/7 is also being voted against and we are complaining that it is a scandal. I may say that the Government wants to incorporate in acts which are not published in the Official Journal of the Government the decisions to appoint members of the Scientific and Organizing Committee the examinations of Greek language, elements of Greek history and of Greek culture addressed to third-country nationals and asylum seekers. It is, at least, suspected of not publishing these acts. The justification that this reinforces the intactness of these examinations is the least inadmissible. Amendment No 68/11, which we are voting against, concerns the secondment of officials to the offices of district and district authorities. We are voting against it, as we vote against anything that strengthens the disorganisation and deforestation of the public by its staff. And district and district managers can work with existing staff in their districts. Amendment No 71/14 is in the right direction. It is the one that concerns the operation of Supported Living Housing Housing Hits. Amendment 76/19 also goes in the right direction and concerns the provision of the term of active athlete for the introduction to secondary education of children who have been distinguished in a sport. We are voting against Amendment 78/21 on various aspects of the Ministry of Health. We are also voting against Amendment 69/8 on the Rodopi National Park and Amendment 62/5 on energy inspectors. We have too many things to say, but what can we start in seven minutes? And I think there will be further amendments that I do not know if we can even see them. It's about twenty-thousand energy inspectors and how they're going to run tests. We are voting against Amendment No 65/8 and Amendment No 70/13. Here, let us say that even if it was rightly considered that the obligation to pay VAT has been reversed - and for the 2014-2020 programming period we understand it -...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u217	Please, finish up, because for the next ones I will recommend a time cut in order to make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u218	I'll be done. .................................................................................................................................................................................................... We are voting against it, too. I wanted to say a lot more. It's really tragic that this is how bills come. In fact, two bills have come at the same time and will continue until now. I would like to remind you, Mr Ministers, that every day the Greek people are on the streets and they are really angry. Every day we have strikes, gatherings and mobilizations, and you haven't gotten a lot of money on your way. Unfortunately, you're not going well at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u219	Please, at this point I suggest that the speaking time should be cut to five minutes in order to make it possible. By 16.00, the procedure must be over. Does this House consent?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, we cannot agree with an orchestra of amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u221	You'll tell your speech. We agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u222	We're talking about twenty bills here!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Carras, you will tell your intervention on the ground. Mr. Treasury has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u224	For seven minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u225	No, from now on five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u226	That's what you had to tell us early to prepare.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u227	You must at least set an example to discipline. You guys at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u228	I, at least, certainly agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u229	If you're not disciplined too, what will the rest of you do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u230	We are right to claim. It's not a matter of discipline. We have discipline in our blood.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u231	You're not just a speaker. The others consented.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u232	Who consented?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u233	Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like any professional and business activity, farmers need a stable and fair tax framework, a flexible, but also a clear legislative framework of operation and substantial and practical support from the state. An important element of livestock activity is grazing land. It is one of its most important production factors. That is why we consider it positive that the clarification of the legislative framework, the grassland, is going ahead. However, the problems remain a great deal for grazing land and animal husbandry in particular. First of all, I would like to refer to the definition of the grazing land which is being attempted in the first article, which is well-known, Mr Minister, as a simple and wide scientific etymology of the term or word 'catchland'. It goes beyond what is appropriate in general and leaves much room for misinterpretation and mismanagement of the grazing issue either against the environmental aspect of the matter or against the business on the part of farmers. International terminology is rich in best practice. I refer you to the work of the International Commission of 2011 - it is twenty-seven pages - for the definition of pastures, as published in the Official Journal of the European Federation of Boscots, which I am presenting in English. In this there is rich material for the different types of grazing land and their definition. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastasios Prussakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In general, with regard to the distribution of pastures, I have previously heard you justify the unacceptable CSR number 873, which you issued in May of this year and which you are calling on us to legitimise by voting today's bill. You have admitted that you are using the technical solution for the distribution of pastures. Why are you doing this? The technical solution was necessary because of the definition of the European Commission, which did not allow for woodland eligibility to be included in woodland, toast and toast. This problem was already solved by the 2014 Legislative Framework. The definition has already changed with regard to the above issue from 1-1-2015. All you had to do was prepare the temporary management studies. Not-time preparation is already causing problems, such as not including forest land, which is now known as 'cassables', in the form of single aid. I know that the regional authorities have unanimously proposed to the Ministry that the regions should undertake the preparation of these studies so that forest areas which are also referred to as 'businessful' can also be included in the single aid. Why doesn't the Ministry consent and let the matter go unsolved? On the contrary, you have been forced, because of your government's failure to act and your inconsistency, to sign the unacceptable OSH and to perpetuate a practical and legally solved problem with a technical solution. It is something for which the responsibilities will also be attributed. The farmers of Greece will never forget it. A characteristic problem is the injustice committed by area matching, especially in northern Greece. While the grazing factor in Greece is 1,473 units of large animal per hectare, in the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace is only 0.55 units. In fact, this is happening while you exclude the two of our islands, Thassos and Samothrace from the territorial unit of the region and joining the island country. Because our area has a large number of animals, it has a small coefficient. And because the balancing is linked to the factor, a distortion is created against our region. This means, in fact, that they are discouraged from entering the sector of young farmers and that older farmers will be faced with reductions. The same is true in other regions, such as central Macedonia, at the same time that Attica joins in a territorial unit with Central Greece. As a whole, this method of calculation and performance ultimately creates distortions and injustices. It would be preferable to make a more fair calculation so that certain areas, which have developed livestock, are not practically punished but face adverse conditions, such as zoonoses, floods, etc. The most practical and fairer solution would be to create two spatial units - you mentioned - on the island and on the continent. Already, Thassos and Samothraki are in the islands' villages in the context of the insularity clause, which, Minister, we insist on extending to Evros the Prefecture as a clause of selectivity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, is there any possibility of giving me a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u235	Just a minute, but get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And since we have already talked about zoonoses, I would like to come to the next major problem, Minister: the Evros prefecture has been hit by zoonoses in recent years. Especially this year and despite our multiple warnings, he became a fetus of lumpy skin disease. Along with the ovine, ovine and caprine zoonoses, he's seen his livestock declining in 1/3. Here is a question with pastures, as there is a risk of being excluded from the new CAP for those who have not been able to replace their livestock this year and thus lose their pilgrimage and aid rights. For these people, special care must be taken, express regulation in this bill, so that they do not lose their rights to the new CAP. I would ask you to pay due attention to this issue. In addition, by interrupting my suggestion and speech, Mr President, I would like to ask the House to inform us that at the moment on our northern border a tragedy is taking place, which affects farmers as well as their products and not just: the Intended one remains closed. Greece remains detached from Europe by rail...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Purchass, finish it up. Not much of it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u238	...and we here feel proud and tell the Greek people that we are in command. For Christ's sake! Please. There is a problem at our borders, which you have created. Untie it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, too. Mr. Barriots has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. I was going to start by protesting about the Ministry of Health's practice to introduce a very wicked and very important amendment to hospitals just twelve hours before the vote, but the new record that Mr Philis has just won - 'vote, wipe, get done' - after he had announced that these amendments will come through the press, leave me incomplete in terms of time. I only hope that Mr Paulakis will not be jealous, Mr Philly, and that you do not begin with noble speech who will be tabling last minute and with more concise amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, as you all know very well - and I can assure you on my own experience - the grazing earths have nothing to do with hospitals and on-calls, as they do not have education. But this is where a tactic has begun. I will speak only about health and this amendment, because it has started a tactic, which has a specific purpose. It is the second amendment - a Trojan horse, another one which says that it is doing more, in fact, with a specific tactic and a market perception of politics, which the policy is judged as a trick, as a trik, as a deception - if you like - since we are doing more. So the amendment is supposed to come and seems pro-medical, because it solves urgent problems for the doctors of the ESS, who have been so urgent that for eleven months no one has touched them! The problems were well known. We have 11 months of governance of SYRIZA, we have 11 months of terrible problems that have been inherited by the previous ones, which have to do with the staff, with the doctors of the ESS, with the auxiliary doctors, with unpaid on-calls from a range of bureaucracy and lack of funds. So why, all of a sudden, on the eve of the bill's swab, which will be - he says - swept away for health, are they being tabled today? What's the need? Of course, the bill goes back. Since April, it will be announced every month for next month and we still haven't seen it. However, the truth is that the last two amendments make me very worried about what the health system has to find from the scanning bill, if and when it is tabled. But let us discuss this then. We're going to leave the fact that these are practically patches here. They have no sense of reason. They are trying to close holes, which do exist in the system, in a way that goes beyond curiosity and the very bad average of the legislation of that government. We don't even know what law they're changing! There is no paragraph 11 of Article 45 of the Law. Proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 3205/2003 concerning on-calls. There's nothing at all, actually. The law that's changing is n. Article 4316/2014, Article 12 and paragraph 2. Whatever. In any case, let us go to the specific and contents and why the amendment is a Trojan horse. I said before that there was another one. The previous amendment - Trojan horse - was the amendment that was supposed to regulate the problem of hospitals, which had been left headless, legalising their operation only by boarding without command. In fact, this amendment allowed Mr Polakis to prosecute, initiate the process of prosecuting the governors, mocking the troika. "I mock the troika" is a clever thing that we've seen many times, it's very "destructed" now. Five years we have seen the cleverness "but I am voting, but I am saying, but I am doing it", except that we see it in a certain way, with the bill to the Greek people in the next cycle. The budgetary gap and the financial costs are paid by the Greek people, just as they have paid, for example, the cleverness of the five-year-old that has been abolished and converted into 6% reductions in supplementary pensions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] You will give me one more minute, Mr President. Ideas and partisanism cost, cost later, cost expensive and usually costs people who are not to blame, such as retired people. Why is this amendment a Trojan horse? So what's he doing? It introduces a lot of arrangements that pay doctors for hired - correctly - trying to shut holes that have been created in the system. We could talk for hours about the way, because that, otherwise. We don't have hours. We had nothing but a few hours. It wasn't discussed anywhere. The amendment 'passes night', because in its belly it carries paragraph 7. Let me read it by word: ‘Revenue from hospitals, laboratory examinations of health establishments, as well as revenue from the EKPY, hospitals, that is, hospitals, may be provided in addition to the approved appropriations of the Ministry of Health for the compensation of regular newspapers, overtime, exceptional nights and nights referred to in the first subparagraph and others’. Welcome the plastic on-site papers from the back door! What, then, is this amendment doing? What does paragraph 7 introduce? The possibility of on-calling, charging costs to hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u241	Come on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u242	I'll be done in less than a minute. In common, the former Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who are party leaders, with the newly appointed hospital governors in December, will return to the old client base, which will give money to the peer directors of clinics for on-calls and leave the hospital without drugs or extend the budget and let him collapse. Are there any necessary on-calls? It is well known that the on-call system is unfair and has no sense in it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u243	Please, Mr. Colleague, it's over. Remove from other speakers a year.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u244	It needs to be transformed and reformed. Doctors of the health system don't want to be spectators of a fictitious party and client system. They want dignity, transparency and decent regular pay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u245	Here you go, Mrs. Stuboulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, since I come from a prefecture, a regional unit whose farmers almost two years ago saw their grazing land falling by 30%, 50% or 70%, the Community aid eligible for aid and therefore saw their income falling accordingly, I can only welcome the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, which deals with the problem in a coherent, effective and - yes, as much as the opposition does not want to admit - in particu larise the development of livestock with sustainable management of the necessary natural resources, as part of the country's productive reconstruction. In addition, the definition in the first Article, characterising as grazing land where the vegetation of pork, torchy, woody, bushes or sparse tree species is developed, is addressed to the problems arising not only from Union legislation, which ignored the type of grazing land in southern Europe, but also from the system for the identification of parcels or perhaps from the way it is implemented and how it is read by some, so that they are characterised as woody and are excluded under the previous legislation where the naked eye was viewed with few scattered trees. Adequacy of eligible grazing land is ensured, without being declassified from forest land, which the Antipolitics has sought in the past with visible intentions. On the contrary, the articles on grazing management plans achieve sustainable management. At the same time, Article 8 protects the refreshing areas and the nucleus of the national parks in particular. At the same time, of course, a spokesman for Anti-Population is trying to protect with an amendment that tables mining activities from real or imaginary threats. Everyone has been there, ladies and gentlemen! I cannot comment on Article 13, which seeks to make the functioning of the ELGA fairer and, above all, to make it more effective and more rapid, with provision for the appointment of an evaluator and officials of the same specialities in the narrow and wider public sector in cases of extensive damage. And Article 15 for the National Dead Animal Collection and Management Programme, except that it is the application of a Community Directive 2002 - only with thirteen years' delay to which SYRIZA did not govern! - will relieve us of obvious risks to public health, but also of images of ravages and streams that do not honor our culture. And now I have to say something about the amendments that have dragged the months of anti-population, which is pretending to ignore the fact that at the end of a year with more than one change in most ministries, yes, it is a necessary evil, so that the services and institutions which incidentally provide support for the weakest are still in place. What amendments do you object to, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition? For the 7114 of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, which ensures the continuation of the operation of sheltered living until they join the new NSRP, or for 8629 ensuring the same for "Help at Home", social structures for direct treatment of poverty and hosting hostels for women - victims of violence by the National Centre for Social Solidarity? Are there serious objections to the 6912 Ministry of Environment and Energy, which extends the protection of the Rodopi National Park? Do you want the offices of regions and counter-regions to be disqualified, or do you mind not paying the posters to them? 6811 of the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction shall ensure that such payments are made. Do you agree either to extend the terms of the Ministry of Health to 7821, or to extend staff secondments for three years? These are distractions many times that have made your own administrations, serving your own children, but we keep them to avoid any further problems in public care until we legislate our own law, incomprehensible and transparent system of transfers and secondments. Or do you disagree to find a way to get paid this year rather than next year for the work they offered and offered? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Please, Mr President, I shall end. I was amazed by my previous colleague, who saw a Trojan horse, the prerogative of directors, the overrun of newspapers, and the tenth of what is wrong in an attempt to get paid for entrepreneurial, established newspapers, not in excess of, for which...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u247	There will be a return of the fictitious newspapers of the hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u248	...no figurative, absolutely real, for which the funds approved by the previous ones do not reach. Get the hammer that won't get there!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u249	Reread the paragraph.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u250	I read it very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u251	Comrade, put your hands on it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u252	Ladies and gentlemen, if it is politically profitable to remind the government of what it said as Opposition, consider it far more profitable to remind opposition of what it did as government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u253	Please, my colleague, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u254	And that, by making things worse than what the government did before 2015 - I want to say to Mr Venizelos - we admit that it requires competences that outweigh us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u255	Mr. Stylus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u256	Thank you very much. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the draft 'Sustainable land and other provisions', a bill by the Ministry of Rural Development and Productive Reconstruction. Is this a comprehensive solution to the problems of livestock farming and the agri-food sector of the economy in our country? Personally, I don't think I'm gonna prove to you why. This draft law is a recast of the new laws. See recitals 42 and 42 of May 2014 and of the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, judgments of the Court of Justice and judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union, judgments of the Court of Justice and of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, judgments of the The political leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development could therefore proceed with the implementation of these laws, namely their implementation. There is the problem to date, namely that the House is legislating, but the laws, unfortunately, do not apply. You know that, too, like all of us. It could therefore be with an interpretative circular or an interpretative decision to find a solution to what the Minister is trying to achieve with this bill. Last year, this time, farmers had already been given over 1.5 billion euros. The Minister said - I heard him yesterday - that by Friday 4 December the money will be provided from the single payment. We are therefore waiting for this announcement to be implemented. Personally, I believe that there will still be failure, and that proves that this bill does not solve the problems and does not give any overall answers. It gives a partial, fragmentary solution to the problem faced by farmers when it comes to the payment of their aid. The previous government has succeeded in changing the definition of pastures in cooperation with the other Member States of the European South. Why did the previous definition of pastures apply? It was because this included the CFP that was in place until 31/12/2014. From 1-1-2015, the pork, torch and woody land were included in the pastures. We have thus succeeded in increasing considerably - not to say double - the eligible grazing areas and the problem facing thousands of farmers in our country has been solved, as long as certain conditions have been met. What are these conditions? The management plans should have been drawn up and the rights calculated. I have heard the Minister in his second words admit that with the government signed in May by the Ministry of Agriculture it is moving towards the distribution of pastures by means of a technical solution. Why, Minister, do you go through with a technical solution? The technical solution is the one that was implemented with the previous CAP and you know, as we and the farmers are aware, that it was not clear. It was not an objective way of calculating rights. So with the technical solution, we are going back to what you have denounced in alchemy. We want to move forward, take a step forward. You have the ability to answer. So the technical solution has been used in the past and we have had the consequences we have had. Instead, with its negotiating ostrich, the government let valuable time be lost and then ten months later in the technical solution. I heard the Minister who said that new rights would be counted. We expect rights to be calculated in the new way and the new CAP to be implemented. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I would like to tell you that in the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament there is an observation on both Article 1 and Article 2 as to whether legislation is compatible on the basis of what is in force in the environment and in the forests and whether you have taken into account - which could - the databases available in the Ministry of the Environment or whether you have provided for the connection of these databases. Minister, Article 16 permits the import of propagating material. I do not know if we are aware of what the introduction of multiplier material means without any control being carried out. This means, therefore, that the biodiversity of our country can be changed. In order not to analyse it to you, the window you open unfortunately means that they may be questioned. You know that in our country, when it opens a caramel, it becomes a window at the end of the door. Consider these and take very seriously the consequences into account. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I close, Mr President, by saying that we cannot separate farmers and farmers. Any pathogen that existed so far must correct it and change it. We cannot continue with policies that increase the tax on farmers when they ask for a 100% advance for next year. Minister, I want you to know that last year in my area, Arta, citrus fruits were given at very good prices. So is the rays. This year, prices are half. So when the tax will be paid in advance last time, how will there be a return to these producers? How will they be prepared for next year? There won't be any. So I urge you now, even at this very moment, to deal with the problems of the sector, with livestock and agriculture, because the agri-food sector and the improvement of production will boost our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u257	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, twenty-six students and students and three attendants of teachers from the 9th Municipal School of Patras. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] From the speakers, I see Mr. Kefaliannis is not here, as is Mr. Lappas. We will now give Mr Carras the floor. Mr. Carras, do you get five or six minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u258	I think that's enough, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u259	Here, then, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u260	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] It wasn't my intention to talk today. The bill was placed late last night at 12 o'clock. But, before entering the House, the Association of Centralists, we sat down and read the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House and we learned what all colleagues know about it. We have learned that only the Member has an unlimited right of opinion and vote and that he is not bound, not arrested, not imprisoned for his opinion or for his vote. What does that mean? Is it just the immunity of the Member, if he is unlawful, or is he guaranteed the right of the Member guaranteed by the Constitution, to legislate correctly? Gentlemen, it is the second, regardless of whether it has transferred and developed into a ban on waiver of immunity in violations of criminal law. So, what is going on today? You deprive us of the right, ladies and gentlemen, of our right to stand up, express an opinion or an opinion on legislative matters. You are misusing the concept of the amendment. You are misusing the concept of legislative improvement, because the legislative improvements you bring are new bills. So you are making an abuse and insulting the Members and the House, gentlemen, even if some by no means accepted them yesterday, in the view that there was a need for legislation. We recognized that. We didn't show up on that kind of thing. However, today I have to put myself firmly on this point. What for? Because of the completely delayed tabling of the amendments I am not in a position, I am not given the time to read neither the legislative text nor the explanatory statement nor to compare the provisions that are being amended and those which are being voted on. For God's sake! Mercy, gentlemen of the government! So much do you want to lower the House level? We are now starting to scare not only the level of the quality of the legislation that you are introducing, but also the purposes of the legislation that you are attempting. I have followed the Minister for Education, Mr. Friend, to bring packages of amendments, which may be critical and important, but I must confess to my inability to be present, because I do not have time. The Rules require the amendments to be tabled three days ago and not one hour before the vote. So I think we should be given the opportunity! All this emphasis on the amendments - so as not to give any more characterization - needs to be withdrawn, because Parliament cannot legislate in this sense and, if you like, with blanks, as at present, on such crucial issues. We were exhausted by the MPs last night and this morning when we were present with this famous pasture law, which loses its title along the way and becomes a bill of education, a health bill, a transport bill and everything else that confides there can be. So we say that any amendment comes late and, above all, under pressure this year, we will not vote on it. It is 15.00 hours time and amendments are still being tabled and it has been declared that the debate will be over at 16.00 hours. How, then, will there be an answer? How are we going to see what's going on and what's not the case? Do you want to legislate on your own? You are suspended, gentlemen, by the Rules of Procedure of the House, to proceed. We have no objections if you decide that. So what do you want? Legislation before empty bearings and unilaterally? We are not going to vote on any of the amendments to which they have the character of the vote. So I come to the other issues. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I will be done on time. The field of pasture has been overshadowed and you have therefore found a chance. What can we do? Let's put in amendments. Yeah, but why? Because we also see a deficit not only in SYRIZA - I have to say it - but also in the previous governments and in the New Democracy and in PASOK, but also in all those who have been ruling this country over the last five years. What are these amendments you are bringing? Expansions and temporary arrangements. You say we will do this for two years, because we will study the legislative framework and bring new legislation to one object and another. So, what are you saying? That both the PASOK and the New Democracy that ruled in previous years did not regulate, left some issues unregulated, thereby giving immunity to illegality. And you come and continue, gentlemen! The extensions, as I said last night, which are given in this form, are an extension of the law on land for landfills, either for extension to quarries or for extension to anything, attempt and help the immunity provided by the governments concerned to arbitrary and illegality. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u261	Thank you too, Mr Carras, and respect for the time. The Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks has the floor, Mr. Spirtzis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr President. The minutes of the meeting of the Committee on Public Enterprises on Friday 27 November 2015 show the request of the Members of the New Democracy and Recast Party to correct the verbal opposition referred to in paragraph 1 and paragraph 3 of Article 18 of the Act. Date of birth: 4337/2015. I would like to stress, Mr President, that this amendment was made by encouraging Vice-Presidents on Friday so that there would be no question of interpretation, despite the fact that Mr von Wogau is not here. 3920/2011 and the same article of the law that we are amending and in the explanatory statement it is noted that there is the president and CEO of the OSCE, SEC and OSCE organisations. In fact, I have noted the minutes of the speech both by Mr Tragakis and by other Members of Parliament who said 'Nothing has happened, bring the amendment on Monday and in eight days you will put new administration to these agencies'. Unfortunately, our attitude to accept the proposal of the Vice-Presidents, instead of being taken as a stand for the search for convergences and political culture, so that the New Democracy MPs do not leave the meeting, has become the subject of a communal specialty today and this weekend. They talked about fiasco, about increasing the operating costs of the agencies and establishing a party state. Our policy of being President and CEO results from the attitude of a democratic administration to public bodies and the task of restructuring urban transport for citizens. It is on the opposite side of the proposals of the outgoing administration to the institutions in ignorance of the government. For Parliament to know what we have found, I would like to say that we have found a negotiation made by the OSCE administration with the institutions without knowing it and through which it was proposed that the same person be president and CEO not only in OSCE, but also in OSCE and STAS. A man! For years now, they have not been able to make unification within the OSH and STAS organisations and the proposal that had been made toward the institutions was the same man as president and CEO on all three agencies, because he probably did very well! These were arranged by the outgoing administrations and our policy is on the other side of having private and rented employees for drivers, auditors and executives of these agencies in the action plan of urban transport restructuring in the original report. It is also on the other hand at the foot of having volunteer auditors or headhunters paid by fines, all directors, divisions, all those who have been placed in positions of responsibility in the three agencies have not been met with merit, not by service councils, but by placing the known mechanisms served by the previous administrations. It is also on the side of having a special police force in transport, as it came to proposals, but also on the back of abolishing the free movement of the unemployed. Moreover, it is at the opposite side of not signing contracts at the expense of the State between OSCE and companies to be privatised, in order to continue losing public and public revenues for the benefit of individuals. It is also on the other hand at the foot of not having contracts for specific communications companies costing much more than the three distinct chairmen that ensure a more transparent and democratic function. Finally, it is at the opposite foot, so that the administrations of the Greek public companies are administrations of the country and not of others. I would also like to present to you the report by the General Accounting Office of the State on this amendment and the reports by the administration showing that there is no burden on the state budget. I would also like to state what the previous administration of OSCE and TRAINOSE has signed, which would possibly be the case after the privatisation of TRAINOSE, at the expense of Greek public and urban transport. To figure out what was going on! And obviously we have no desire to hide anything. As soon as the new administrations go, they'll come out and all the rest that happened there. Mr President, there is also another amendment. There was a date for filing files for the licensing of radio stations' antennas. There are requests for extension, given that, due to the elections, many radio stations were unable to submit this dossier. We are therefore giving a new extension for a two-month period - it is not important - so that these stations too can submit their files. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Minister. The Minister for Economy, Development and Tourism Mr. George Stathakis has the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u264	There are three articles concerning the NSRF. The first refers to projects carried out by public-sector companies such as ‘ATTIC MERO’, ‘EGNATIA’, ‘ERGOSE’, etc. That's where a correction is made. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Decision do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. This was not inadvertently raised. This issue, as you know, concerns VAT. In these companies it was not eligible. 5% of VAT is co-financed, came from the PPC and was offset back by a great natural delay through the well-known netting process. They are now allowed to provide VAT with own resources and to unlock projects which are already blocked because of the problem of VAT. It is therefore a regulation which facilitates the completion of the current ESDP projects by Christmas. The second article refers to the same possibility of specific categories of ESRB projects, such as large technical and water and sewerage projects, in order to solve the similar problems faced by relevant bodies, such as municipal water and sewerage undertakings. At the same time, it allows us to make a faster absorption of resources and to prevent any possibility of losing Community funds on the basis of the current programme. So we make these two corrections, which concern exclusively the possibility of VAT being paid by public limited companies and IEYA. The third question concerns the staff of the joint technical secretariats supported by INTERREG, namely the management of the cross-border programmes of the ESDP. This staff contract expires at the end of the year. For obvious and self-evident reasons, an eight-month extension is proposed to complete the current programmes and start the next ones. Thereafter, for this staff, as provided for in all the other categories of officials in Monte and elsewhere, a similar evaluation procedure is provided for in order to determine whether and under which conditions they are continuing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u265	Corrections, Minister, to be filed in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u266	I've testified them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u267	Mr Balafas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. You have already been distributed, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment we are proposing as the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction. It is an issue which I think is necessary to resolve and to be obvious. This is a need to cover - and this is a lack - the possibility of staffing the district authorities' offices and the Vice-President with the secondment of officials during the term of office of regional and regional authorities, which are five years. It is an omission from previous legislation - I would specifically mention - which, while including all the other categories of MPs, ministers, etc., had omitted the district managers and vice-presidents. The proposed provision - which has been submitted in due course - has been distributed, you have it in your hands - is replaced by a paragraph of Article 247 of the Treaty. 3852/2010 on "KALIKRATI" and the possibility of the offices of district and district authorities being seconded by officials from the public and the wider public sector is reiterated. That is the main amendment that is being proposed. At the same time - of course, too - a regulation is being made for these officials to be paid, because a number that had previously joined and served at the offices of regional and regional authorities were not even paid, because, in the opinion of the audit authority, a signature was needed by the Minister for Administrative Reform. It was wrong that this thing was happening. In any case, people were not paid, and in this way this injustice is covered for these officials, the seconded persons who are serving. Finally, in the same way, there are possibilities for secondment to the Association of Greek Regions, which will, in the first place, be five-year, proportional to the term of office of regional and counter-regions. I would like to point out here that, in my opinion, there has been a misunderstanding, that we had first two years and that five years of distraction has taken place. That's not right. What is set out in the amendment is that, first of all, the secondment takes place during the five-year term of registries and counter-regions. If the district director or deputy chief - after all - applies to anyone else - moves to secondment and considers him inappropriate for this secondment, he may discontinue cooperation with him in six months, in the first year or in the second, etc. I think it is an amendment that facilitates things and we propose that this House vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u269	Parliamentary Representative of the River Mr Spyros Dannelis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday, in my post-night position, when the relationship between the articles of the bill and amendments was twenty-five, I said you were approaching your record. Now, if I haven't lost the account, it's twenty-three articles in the bill to twenty-three amendments, more of which are irrelevant to the bill under discussion. I am very afraid, Mr Apostle, that either in your unawares or with your agreement the bill, which - I am sure in passing - could have come as a President-in-Office of the Council to pass various other arrangements to allow me the term - 'haircut', as a drug dealer. I imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that none of you disagrees that this is how we look to the functioning of Parliament and the art of legislation is not served in this way. Three quarters before the debate is concluded and we have the vote on the bill, we still have no amendments in our hands that have been tabled on serious issues, we still have no idea whether we are in this relationship twenty-three to three, or whether it will be differentiated.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u271	Twenty-four amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u272	Twenty-four amendments. You see, I've lost the account. I was around twenty-three. We've got three more quarters. We can still go up significantly. I will not comment on many things, I would not intervene, but I think that things are now out of tolerance. I shall refer to two - three of the amendments, which have nothing to do with the serious bill. I shall begin with Mr Spirtzi's amendment. I think the way Mr Spirtzis has justified his amendment to the law, which was quite rightly brought about a month ago by SYRIZA in a rational way to deal with a pathogen of the past - the times that we have passed do not tolerate such pathogens and their continuation - so the way you have justified is perhaps worse than the project of an amendment to the law that you have rightly brought in a month ago. Because it is not the case that you have been pushed by the members of the Committee on Representation to make an amendment to the law!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u273	I'll give you the minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u274	But is that our question? Is that the point? So many years that the Left has been shouting - and rightly so - about merit, about reducing unnecessary public spending, why do we have to take care of some of the reserve of the SYRIZA executive party? And you know, because we're also entering such sub-texts, I didn't see the candidates' biographics on those parchments and those special knowledge that are so necessary that urban transport in Attica should be receded, so that we would consider it necessary to involve the six instead of the three! And, of course, I do not know whether this is the perception by which, ad hoc and, where appropriate, any cover for positions in the public interest, we will have an amendment to the law on these agencies or the agencies concerned. And because you said that the report of the General Accounting Office of the State says that it does not bring any new costs, that is true. It will, however, be a burden on the internal allocation of the budget available to us. Isn't that right? Because the presidents will not be unpaid. And in any case, we know that the president is decorative. It does not have a decisive role in the administration. I come to the second amendment I would like to comment on. The "Help at Home" programme is one of the most successful social services programs. But does it need to be financed by the AAGE, where we run whenever we see any gaps, and is the fund that will be available to cover such holes, while as an eye daughter, we should keep it for the next generations that this is the logic, its philosophy? For the selection of primary and secondary school directors, the reintroduction of the criterion and the rating of the personal interview, I think that, of course, it will take us back and it is not possible to think - what I said just now - that it is the right tool to bring those of the party reserve who expect various appointments or to show up in public posts to meet these requirements. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not deal with any other specific issues. I think, however, that if we really want to turn on a page and get into another normality for this country and for this desert society, we cannot continue to legislate in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u275	Thank you too for respecting time. Parliamentary spokesman for the JRC, Mr Diamanto Manolakou, has the floor for six minutes, strictly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u276	It is obvious that the climate of consensus on the requirements of the European Union for the characteristics it wants in grazing areas, so-called 'eligible'. For us, "eligible" are those who are located, grazing and reaching for the needs of the animal population. And the aid must be given to livestock units rather than to grazing areas which lead to such bills. I say this because, from the first article with the definition of pasture, problems arise for the purpose of these areas, which have so far been forested and forested, so that appeals are expected, since the areas described are, in the constitutional definition, forest ecosystems. In other words, in a violent and massive way you turn the form of use of forest land, which is grazing, in character, that is, grazing areas. This is dangerous and you may now say that you will solve the problem that you have received and that more areas will be given, according to what the European Community is asking for, but it is not certain that it will not be blown up in the air and you will simply have earned time by getting tolerance from the directly interested, who, of course, are not to blame for anything. At the same time, you characterize them with new fees, such as the burial of dead animals and grazing rent, which will become more expensive, and say, Minister, that it will be virtual. Write it in the law to commit, because for the memorials you were saying, but you voted for it and brought the worst, what makes life hell for the farms, for the work, for the other popular layers. Because, immediately, you satisfy the needs of capital. As far as the amendments are concerned - I am not going to go into the articles, as our rapporteur spoke - I have to say: look at them, you are bringing an industry of amendments to the effect. It's twenty-four in number. We don't even have time to place ourselves or the world to hear what's waiting for them. You've gone beyond your teachers. Looks like you don't want the people to know what you're up to. I shall refer to a selective one. Amendment 61 extends the operation of quarries by 2020, even those that had been closed and have given rise to a fair protest by the Municipality of Marcopoulou. Of course we are voting against it, but what are you doing to serve? Big construction groups. That's why you're giving the extension. For poor farmers, however, the extension is less for the authorisation of the rough stigma. In fact, with simple request, the quarries are licensed without waiting for the environmental conditions to be approved. And what you are favouring is also clear in Amendment 70, which abolishes, zero, VAT on cofinanced projects, which, as you know, concern large manufacturing groups. But in feed, it's 23%. Because it's about farmers? So here's where you collect money and who you tax with laws and amendments like these. Amendment 81 calls for seven hundred thousand farmers to return EUR 320 million as illegal state subsidies granted in 2008 and 2009. And you'll get them anyway from their bills, automatically, once their subsidies are in place, which is illegal! You're imputing them that they were illegal by taking them. So, how did they illegally? Did they rob? Did they get into the cashiers and grabbed them? Of course not! With ministerial decisions and through banks, they were made. Exclude the dead, of course. Hey, they don't have a bank account! How can you get them, by the way? Listen, you'll have reactions from the rural movement. Be sure. But they must also understand that this is the European Union: State subsidies and tax exemptions are allowed only for large groups, monopolies and not for farms, work, for those who suffer. Also, to draw conclusions from the current government which has taken what it has received from previous governments and increased the anti-grassroots reactive measures. Yeah, well, take the bite out of the mouth of poorness to feed business groups. No tolerance, no waiting for the wild exploitation of the system and the parties that serve it. We're sending this message. With regard to Amendment 76, which deals with the conditions for an athlete who has achieved significant performances, to be able to go to a higher education institution: it is true that athletes who have done many years of championship and who manage to achieve such a high performance are difficult to perform in courses so that they can successfully pass the examinations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Here we agree and I shall end with that, Mr President. We'll vote for it. It's not a bad benefit. However, it is good that those athletes who engage in sport, sport and achieve such a significant sporting performance, with the end of their sport being helped by the state, to exploit their experience, by conferring tasks in the field of sport. For the rest, we don't have time to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u277	Thank you. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR, Mr Theocharopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u278	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I think your colleagues have set you up. You've brought a bill for which we've had all the good sense. We've talked in detail since yesterday in the first place. Despite the serious problems it has in some articles, we voted in favour of it in principle. And here we see a greater number of ministerial amendments - twenty-four, I think, we have lost the number - in relation to the articles in the bill. I don't think he's honoring anyone. And I stress this from the beginning of my speech, because I think that from one point to the next we have lost the point of view of the debate. He came before, Mr. Philis, who just opened the process of the national dialogue on education and surpriseingly, while he said he would not testify here, testified the choice of directors in primary and secondary education through an interview and, he said, from the regional directors in the thirteen regions that have been chosen partyly a little while ago. However, the important thing is that we did not discuss it in the committee, in the legislative procedure. He came here with an amendment and submitted it to us a little while ago. Mr Spirjis told us a moment ago that we will also have a president and a CEO at three agencies. In fact, he refers to the opposition, which he says here - I have heard all the wings - that this is incomprehensible, because it is actually a question of normalising positions. And that goes on. We have continued amendments on issues from different Ministries of Unrelated Procedure. And the SYRIZA parliamentary group is absent from the process, because it has a parliamentary group, where the Prime Minister informs her about the insurance, for which we have certainly not been informed of the government's proposals. The Council of Political Heads may have discussed the refugee issue, which is a crucial national issue and on which a joint communiqué came out. In insurance, however, as you know very well, we have not seen any proposal. We have called on the Democratic Reconciliation, the Prime Minister and the Government to submit the proposal to the relevant committees, in advance of a debate in the House, if they would like to have the Committee. He hasn't testified to her anywhere. And we know that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group is leaving the process here, does not monitor the bill and is informed of the proposal on insurance. We are informed by various procedures. I do not think that this whole process will honour the political system and how we really operate. I think that the other issues now on the articles, which have been discussed, go to second degree after this procedure that is being followed today, which you never wanted. After all, you have denounced much less things in the past. I am a new Member of Parliament, but from what I hear, there is no precedent for the ministerial amendments - the ministerial, not the parliamentarians - to be more than the number of articles in a bill. Of course, we heard Mr. Bernardakis also saying: 'But what should we do? We're not under normal circumstances. That is why this procedure is being done here." That was the argument. I think the same thing if they said it a while ago, you would understand that you said exactly the opposite to normal conditions. In any case, it was not the normal conditions in August. Now he tells us that under normal circumstances we don't legislate, is that why he's brought all this? Of course, while denounced Members who speak of irrelevant issues on the bill, he explained an amendment which was irrelevant to this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the bill, after ten months of oligopoly the government voted for this plenary sitting a bill amending an existing legislative framework. It attempts at over five to regulate the management, exploitation and distribution of the country's grazing land. If we consider how severely the livestock sector is affected, then obviously the aid is of paramount importance. After all, your government is too late to give the aid and compensation to the producers, which has led them to despair. We had never reached this date and still farmers had not received the aid they deserve. However, a government's vision should not be limited to these points alone. Vision would be to create advisory services, to have each farmer, each farmer his adviser. These are visionary procedures. Not a simple setup. Vision would be to have an integrated productive reconstruction plan in the country. So this question arises: Where exactly was the valuable time lost, since we do not have all this? There are serious ambiguities and shortcomings. The distribution of competences between regions, municipalities, decentralised administrations is completely unclear. There has been no consultation with the municipalities and regions for all of this today. Everyone is surprised about what has happened. It shall also remain undetermined how the projects are drawn up by the regions referred to in Article 2. How's it gonna be? Is there any prediction? Will it be done through the framework of public procurement to scientists or otherwise? There's nothing specific here. Dispersible regulation in the body of the bill, perhaps in ministerial amendments relating to forest land and do not solve the issue. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as the second chapter of the bill is concerned, there are issues which trouble farmers, such as the empty facilities of livestock establishments. It shall propose a period of eighteen months for the period of issue. The extensions, however, are not enough. We must look for where the whole thing is going wrong and give solutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Theocharopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u280	I shall conclude, Mr President. Of course, as far as the various amendments made by many ministries are concerned, there are many issues and they need to be discussed in detail. At the moment, some new amendments have been tabled to read. It does not honor anyone in this political system. I invite you to consider that this is not the procedure. To withdraw excessive amendments to various unrelated ministries from the bill now, as long as it is time for this process not to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u281	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u282	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u283	There are legislative improvements, which deal with particular amendments. In addition, there is an addition at the end of Article 21 of the draft phrase law ‘unless otherwise specified in the provisions in question’. I testify to them, at the same time saying the score is 21-20. More is the articles in the amendments. So in this process...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u284	There were twenty-four. He retired one, so he's twenty-three.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u285	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Kasapidis, has been speaking for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u286	Mr Minister, if we have reached the point of measuring the amendments, we have lost control of the articles. It is unprecedented what is happening, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, it is a fascinating way in which the present government comes and disproves its struggle for parliamentarianism and the functioning of Parliament, when it criticised the New Democracy and the previous government for the way it legislated, with the justification and pretext that we now have to legislate and prevent developments, as if then it were just so simple and easily that the ministers and the previous government made fun of it. Once again, Mr Minister, you are disputing yourself with your election behaviour and your promises, and with this bill that you then condemned as a foresticide, that draft law with the provisions of the previous government. Now you come and you're forced to suggest it and defend it as visionary already. Somewhere in the middle is the truth. It was a necessary legislative initiative, which you were late to bring to the plenary session. It is precisely because it solves management problems and nothing more, it should already have been submitted by your own government. Bring it in a little slow. We, as we have explained, with all our remarks which our rapporteur, Mrs Arabatzi, has made, are positive in principle. We have tabled some comments, some points. However, we are losing a great opportunity, Minister - I stress it once again - to open up this dialogue which has not been formally opened, atypically by many colleagues, this dialogue on the productive reconstruction plan and particularly development in the primary sector. We have heard excellent positions from colleagues from most of Parliament's wings and it is an opportunity and a message for the government. Bring the proposal for the dialogue that the Prime Minister is proposing, even in advance. Here there is a substance in the primary sector and in the reconstruction of the country. Along with the refugee and insurance, bring this issue to debate so that we can find the equivalent for insurance for all the citizens of the country, especially for farmers, but also for the tax which you will call again for time pressure, Mr Ministers, that there are no other options, other solutions. We tell you from now on, since with that proposed legislative initiative on the taxation of farmers at 26% you want to get those percentages from farmers' incomes at the end of 2016, if it starts now when the season begins - and because you know from agriculture, Minister, now farmers have their herds, if they keep the females at the end of the year, we will be counting on an increase in production. But if it starts now, not after Christmas, this debate on the operational plan. More specifically, we are talking about proposals, because they are to be judged, for sheep and goat, and especially for feta. In my remarks to you yesterday that the Prime Minister must now defend it at the level of the Heads of State or Government of Europe in relation to the negotiation that the European Union has with Canada, the CETA agreement, to ratify this provision you refer to on the feta and to launch an alarm for all the ministers to promote this excellent product on the world market whose demand touches the five hundred thousand tons. In other words, we have the market ready, but we do not have production. We must put forward a plan which we must and can prepare within the next period of time. Not more than twenty or twenty-five days can be done. There are now proposals from the past and the scientists and people who will run these issues, but start it. What does that mean, in order to prevent the excuses that you will be defending and arguing about the taxation of farmers and the increase in insurance contributions? It means that if we start now - in one year and in the next - in two years we can achieve a total increase in the GDP of the country's primary sector by EUR 1 billion, alongside an additional 100 000 jobs. This will greatly increase the State's revenues from what the relevant Ministry of Finance does not appreciate or calculate, precisely because there is no such plan for productive reconstruction. After all, Minister, you owe this to the Greek citizens, because it was your basic pre-election commitment, that there is the alternative plan that you will follow to avoid burdening the citizens with these measures which, unfortunately, you are forced to defend. We also made a few comments on the draft law. I would like to recapture them once again and submit to this debate on the articles, because they are important and fundamental. You're doing a database on the pastures. But, Minister, this base is headless. You have an advisory committee next to you, which has no decisive role... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u287	No, you don't have two minutes. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u288	It needs a general pasture address that coordinates and designs centrally the interventions and directions through the grazing management plans that will last until 2019 for interventions involving basic infrastructure, Minister, for the functionality of pastures. Access Roads: Good recording and printing through an electronic file, database. However, if the farmers do not have easy access and break their cars when they go to the pastures, you can understand that there is interoperability. Also, with regard to the use of these areas, today - we have stressed it many times - everyone does what they want in the pastures. But they're throwing a ball, but they're doing events, but they're organizing various interventions - and local bodies either officially or informally, so they're making it harder for farmers' lives...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u289	Finish, Mr. Kasapidi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u290	I'm closing, Mr. President. Such interventions and proposals can therefore be collected within the next period until Christmas, Minister, it is enough on the basis of this draft law, which, as we said, we are voting on at first reading, to launch this debate. So you will also be the man who will put his seal on such an initiative that will unite political forces in this area synthetic and creative. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u291	Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u292	I always follow him, Mr. President. Mr President, today is a historic day for Parliament, but with negative content and a fine. It has taken half of the Ministerial Council to table and then to support delayed amendments. The bill is entitled "Bossible land and other provisions", but the right one should be "the provisions and amendments scattered within grazing land". It is not possible for twelve o'clock and one o'clock and two o'clock at noon on the day of the vote to come to such important amendments, without any consultation, without any information, which defines not just things and data in every ministry which is very important, but people's lives. I only have to refer to two of them, which essentially disprove of any of the government's words and arguments which have been last heard about dialogue and consultation. In relation to the selection and placement of primary and secondary school managers - heard by other colleagues here - can you announce a few days ago that a national dialogue on education is taking place and coming today by the Minister of Education one hour before voting for such an important amendment, which even sets the institution of the interview for selection? And not only that, but it's shown that there's a boom in all these movements of the ministry. There is a document from the Ministry of Education two days ago, which calls for the Deputy Directors of Primary and Secondary Education to be removed from their posts, who showed good faith in the process, which the Ministry started on the option, which was not ultimately done by the law in the summer, without their responsibility, because of the referendum, chose not to be directors in a school unit and to stay as deputys to participate in the election process. It has not been the election process and now the Ministry of Education is coming, namely, sending letters from the regionals and saying, those who are substitutes, but you are not one-man directors, you have to get away from your post - why? - because they're coming with an interview to make up for you. In relation to the recovery of subsidies for the years 2008, 2009 will it be easy to overcome this issue in two minutes? Has anyone informed us whether the margins of the political negotiation have been exhausted? Was there any pressure by the government to allow this amount not to be repaid by farmers? It's 425 million euros. Has the scope of the political negotiation been exhausted? The Prime Minister's consent was requested, so that the other parties together would actually consent to this money not to be repaid? In the seventeen hours of negotiation, were farmers anywhere? Will they return immediately - they will be netted out into the subsidies for the next few days - EUR 425 million, and this will go through with a five-minute debate here? Legal instruments have been exhausted. It was EUR 600 million and was limited to EUR 425 million. Not to say why they should be returned. They must be returned in accordance with the rulings of the courts. But is the political negotiation exhausted? Has the consent of the opposition parties been requested? Or is it only for airplanes and topics which do not really have to do with the life of citizens, with the lives of farmers in this regard? Just a word about the bill itself and Article 12. Minister, you have in Article 12 the continuation of the provisions on existing livestock units which do not meet the criteria of the law on their distance from residential areas. This comes to complete the 2012 law. Why do you not say that the same applies to livestock establishments which do not have the minimum rankings from a provincial and national network? What you're reading is the big one. The lasson, which is what I say about the provincial and national network, is not mentioned. I want to believe not intentionally. In order to ensure that the article is completed and, in order to facilitate all these livestock farmers, it must be supplemented in that provision, under the heading of that article, that it concerns not only livestock establishments in settlements or in the vicinity of residential areas, but also those which do not have the limits, as is stated in Table 2 of the previous law from the national and provincial routes. I hope, Mr President, that we will not live this day in Parliament again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u293	For five minutes Mr Maniotis, the last speaker for today, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, on Saturday asked the political leaders for a consensus on some of the big issues in the country. And he also asked for a consensus in insurance. We call for mercy, consent to respect for minimum rules of Parliamentary Republic. We were "threatening" by the government in its programme statements that its actions will be every word of the Constitution and every word of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. And we have today a bill in which the amendments are more than the articles and 80% of them have nothing to do with the bill. Does this represent respect for Parliament's Rules of Procedure? Is this a respect for the dignity of the legislature? Does this represent respect for the three hundred Members of the national Parliament? Because all this is an incredible hypocrisy, we, Mr President, will not consent to this permanent deterioration of the national Parliament. We are talking, Minister - I am now addressing you - a bill under an overall agricultural policy, which will eventually remove more than EUR 2 billion from farmers' pockets. I'm only saying titles. Abolition of the tax on subsidies, increase in VAT on pesticides and fertilisers from 13% to 23%, abolition of excise duty, advance tax from 27.5% to 55%, tax on wine and so on. And now we come to see how we can correct the sins. I am very sorry, but there seems to be no hope for the Greek region if this policy continues. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address two specific issues in the draft legislation. The first is certain - I have discussed it with the Minister in the committee - that he has escaped the Ministry's Services and, if not corrected, the country's entire mineral wealth is at risk. Mr Minister, I am now referring to a very simple matter. We all agree that land used in pasture areas must be compatible with grassland or the possibility for each shepherd to carry out his work. There are, however, point areas in each country where nature has placed its own mineral wealth. And that no one can know beforehand. I only mention three examples of this. There are currently three major competitions for hydrocarbon research in Arta, Preveza, Ioannina, Achaia. At the moment, the Ministry of Environment and Energy has identified - we had located - a hundred public mining areas. For twenty of them, the Greek state is ready to make international voyages. If we do not correct the gap in the legislation that exists so that a licence can be issued for research or even exploitation in these areas where mineral raw materials are found, then a sector of the national economy, which has seventy thousand workers, over a hundred and fifty large companies and which contributes to the national balance with more than EUR 1 billion of the exports of marble and other products, we lead him to extinction. I have tabled an amendment to that effect. If you do not agree with the amendment, bring it as a legislative improvement. I will go to the second amendment, which is a top management incapacity, demonstrates party empathy and, unfortunately, to a maximum extent, a waste of public money. I am referring to Mr Spirtzi's amendment on the administration of urban transport. There's a liquor store. The burgers say that the Minister doubles the head of urban transport so that it is not just one that makes decisions and that we have proper corporate governance. But, if you'll excuse me, is there no overseeing Minister who gives the political orders? In public bodies there is no General Accounting Office of the State and of the Ministry of Finance, which controls the allocation of funds and how they operate? It is not enough, however, that a month ago we voted with the government's choice that there should be a head in every organization.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u295	And put a perfect one, Mr. Maniot.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u296	I will only say three figures, Mr President, because that is what the Greek citizens have to hear. The three additional heads will cost 160,000 euros a year, the two secretaries, who want to cost 180,000 euros. A total of EUR 350,000 will be paid every year. Do you know what that means? For three and a half thousand pensioners in the country, it means 100 euros less pension. We refuse to plead for such policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u297	Before giving the floor to the last speaker, I will make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that from the above Western theories they are attending the meeting, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", 50 students and students and three teachers from the Laconia High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for five minutes. We're also being watched by Laconians, and we have to be lacquers. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u298	The SYRIZA - ANEL Government has chosen to apply a large part of the financial adjustment to the overtaxation of the agricultural sector. At the same time he chose - incomprehensible how - to hit whatever productive and creative has stood up in the years of the crisis. That's what her decisions show. In the past few days - you have even presided over - we have had a timely question and have called on the Minister because he does not give any subsidies, because he leaves without income, without the farmers' liquidity, and thus easily fall victim to traders and have their products available to obtain some money. At the same time we asked him why he did not stop all this kitty that started with the thirty-five thousand tonnes of olive oil recommended by the General Affairs Council in order to be introduced into the European Union. And instead of making the moves that need to be made, he has been shattered towards us. And I noticed that this morning he did the same thing when another Member referred to it. I don't know, doesn't he understand what he should do? Does he not understand that he is the Minister for Rural Development? But how, of course, does a Minister for Rural Development who has not reacted to tax measures, tax measures in the agricultural sector? A Minister for Rural Development who accepts taxing wine? A Minister for Rural Development who, while saying that we will find out how the counts for farmers will be avoided, has he finally failed to do so? For the counts, SYRIZA had really said that farmers should not pay them. Today, by a provision brought by Mr Apostlelos, eight hundred thousand producers who had received State aid are invited to return 320 million. That is, while in winter 2009 they were faced with the consequences of the speculative crisis on the world market for cereals and other products and the oil price rally that evaporated their income, they are forced to pay the broken client policy of the then Minister for Rural Development of the Government of New Democracy. We had noted since 2009 the posteriori of the process followed. We also demanded substantial measures, reductions in production costs and support for the rural world. We regard it as a criminal requirement in terms of 'trittomonetary' loot and tax raid conditions for farmers to pay the consequences of the new Republic's client policy. SYRIZA announcement! Mr Vangelis Apostlelos publicly pledged that he would find a solution as Minister. He either tricked us or he's poor, and he didn't find a solution. The result is the same. Farmers are invited to pay for the New Democracy policy and the inadequacy of Mr Apostle. The municipalities are responsible for the grazing areas. The grazing fee, however, goes to other bodies. I am tabling the CEDEFOP and the Committee on Mountain Municipalities on this issue. As I also repeat Mr Apostle's statement with his signature on the issue of thirty-five thousand tonnes. Because he's still refusing his signature, and I don't know if there's been a forgery. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I come to the subject of the amendments. These are twenty-four amendments, Mrs Manolakou, but the articles in the twenty-four amendments are thirty. We cannot, therefore, legitimise this regulatory coup which the government is doing today. It has never happened since 2004, which is me, to come to more articles in the form of amendments than they are in the bill. It's disgraceful, disgraceful, disgraceful! Three times too disgraceful for Mr Phile - who has just entered the Chamber and did not listen to the previous speakers - who calls for a national dialogue on education and is coming in and legislates with amendments which he brings at the last minute and which he has not distributed to the Chamber. This whole process is lame, it shows the impossibility of the government and the ministers to arrange and launch a legislative process and they come and load it in the House. The House, again, will say to the citizens, has made amendments. No, gentlemen, it is the Ministers that are inadequate, they are the ministers who are not planning their legislative work, and they are coming at the last minute to meet needs or to settle client issues, such as Mr Spirtzi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Kegeroglu, put a perfect one. There has been a fight to speak as many speakers as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u300	Mr. Spirtzis has not only brought twice the cost for the administrations, he has not only brought the increase in tickets, then he has the duck and he is leaving. And I say: 'Why does tickets increase them?' To pay for his ruffles. And he brought the VAT again, the 12.5 million ruffet, and he didn't answer us. I have asked him publicly the question: who is going to take it? He hasn't answered us yet. I'm saying it again in public. Mr President, even now, the amendments cannot be incorporated into the bill, except those relating to the bill and the urgency of the matter and lead to the conclusion of the procedure. Otherwise you take enormous political responsibility. We will not legitimize the process. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u301	I have the honour to inform the House that the Ministers of Culture and Sports and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights have tabled a draft law: ‘Adaptation of Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2014/60/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural goods illegally removed from the territory of a Member State’.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u302	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u304	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u305	I have asked from the outset that we, as rapporteurs, be placed as a result of the large number of subsequent amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u306	Mr. Comrade, no. For the sake of excitement, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u307	Wait a minute, Mr President, to make a statement just one minute, representing the Democratic Integration in relation to the process that has evolved within Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u308	It has been pointed out that this issue is very much on the table. Doesn't it cover you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u309	No, it hasn't been stressed. Before we proceed to the vote a one-minute statement on all that has been heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u310	Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u311	Besides, I think it has been understood by the previous speakers of the Democratic Integration that - precisely because of the original procedure, namely - the amendments to be more than the articles of the bills, that is to say, we have a bill that we have had every good intention of discussing, as we have discussed it - we consider, ladies and gentlemen, that this is not the sloppyness which, as it turns out, is not the government's inconsistency of speech and deeds, but that is now established as to how to legislate on the level of coexistence in whatever way parliamentary procedures and dialogue can be achieved. I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u312	Entrepreneurship of colleagues. They didn't cover you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u313	Oh, no. I'll be out in a minute, in half a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u314	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u315	Your aim is, ladies and gentlemen of the coexistence, customer relations, trade unions and the establishment of a hard-controlled state. For these reasons, as a Democratic Partnership, we will not become partners and partners in your work and we leave the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u317	It's over by the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u318	I'm written. It's not over, why?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u319	Mr Vlavo, the list of speakers has been closed. It's been announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u320	Did you invite me to Stepma, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u321	The Minister has the floor. Soon, Minister, we're closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u322	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u323	The list of speakers has been closed, it has been announced. Please very much, Mr. Vlacho.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u324	I'm the one who's here, please. I'm written and you didn't invite me to the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u325	Minister, we're done, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u326	I really want to thank all my fellow Members for the debate that has taken place, for the reflection that has developed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u327	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u328	Mr. Vlavo, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u329	What do you say to me "please very much"?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u330	Mr. Vlao, you're not the only one. It has been announced and the debate closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u331	What does it mean, "I'm not the only one"? We are discussing amendments and you are not giving me the floor? Do you want us to leave, too? You want to be alone?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u332	Please, Mr. Vlavo. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u333	Give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u334	You don't have him. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u335	I would therefore like to thank my colleagues for the debate which took place, the thought of four meetings in committee, two in plenary on a bill. I think, especially since those who defend the country's European path, have voted 'yes' in the first place, a new path is being opened for livestock, particularly for sheep and goats. Four years later, the first bill on the rural area comes. He had torture, and you all know it, so we could get to today. So we're done. From now on, in order to implement what we have as a goal in the bill, it will take a greater effort - it is not just things I repeat, these management plans, these Lithuanian units to spread across Greece - takes a lot of work, it takes a lot of time. Well, thanks from this side. Secondly, I told the committee at the outset that the government in these difficult times must have the legislative initiative. For our part, we have said that there will be amendments from the ministers. I think that today you have seen it in defence of the amendments, that almost all of the Ministerial Council has passed to defend the amendments it has put forward. That was our commitment. Of course, what I want to say and remind many of us is that it is a pity to create voices and attitudes that do not honor us as a Parliament. I should like to close by saying - a phrase that may be heavy - that the hanged man's house is not talking about rope. This House has experienced much worse behaviours with regard to the legislative initiative. So let's be a little calm at least right now. I should like to close by referring to an issue which has been debated in great detail and which concerns recovery. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the quorum to be cured, in the special court, which means that we may have a daily fine, if we do not show to them that at least in the matter of financial confiscation, there have been parallel discussions and negotiations. The sum we are discussing today has been reduced to half of what we were asked to recover. We are making an effort to show that: 'Don't take us to the European Court of Justice. We are slowly beginning to see how this problem will be dealt with." I repeat what I have said. There is no way that this process of rescheduling by farmers, through recoverys, should become as long as I am at the Ministry of Rural Development. There is only one case, that is to say, that it will pass through the House. Because they are not our responsibilities, but they are the responsibilities of all of us, at last, and in particular those of the country that have been ruling up to now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u336	Put a perfect one, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u337	Be quiet that at least during the SYRIZA term in the government there will be no recoveries. You understand what I'm saying. But if we all think about where the country will be tomorrow if we do not make any such moves, I did not expect that to happen at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u338	Mr. Vlavo, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to mention, Mr President, the amendment with a general number 61 and a special number 4. Since yesterday I have been trying, through the Minister, to understand exactly what we are legislating for, what we are dealing with with this amendment. Mr. Skourletis has not come to the Chamber to provide clarification. Mr. Chironis came at some point, said something and left and could not go unnoticed. In my opinion, with this amendment you are photographing some quarries. I don't know what you were doing all over Greece. So you legislate wisely and, while you are politically judged, you do not feel the need to explain to the Chamber. I do not know if the Minister is getting happier, because today this climate is better than the worst in this Chamber - his right, in any case, to enjoy it - but they cannot bring such amendments. I therefore ask, in particular, the Minister who brings the bill, so he also accepts this amendment, to give us clarification. We cannot say that those who have a licence can operate by 2020. And, on the other hand, to those who have expired the licence, provided that they have filed a dossier that has not been checked on the environment, he can extend his licence by 2020. Tell us who you're photographing. This is very specific. This isn't about halves. Don't hide. And it won't end here today. Who you're photographing, I'm telling you this out loud. So the government here must answer who it photographs throughout Greece, to whom it extends the licence. I'll tell you this: If you think...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u340	Who are you telling?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u341	I would like to say to the Bureau. If you think the government wants to extend the quarries, it should be fair and protracted and what they file.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u342	Mr Colleague, you're addressing the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u343	Obviously in the government, but I am addressing you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u344	All right, you're done. You want to say something, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u345	If you want, give me some explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u346	What I want to say is that it is, of course, the responsibility of the relevant Minister, that the Ministry was represented here, but there is a change that really does not respond to what you say. Already, for example, the five years have become two.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u347	That's not saying anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u348	It is already mentioned in the amendment that legally operated people can benefit. I now tell you two parameters. So there is an improvement. From there on, since the government has brought it, I as Minister of Government policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u349	Obviously, you do not adopt the word 'necessarily'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u350	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food is adjourned: 'Greek land and other provisions'. I can inform you that, together with the vote on the articles and amendments, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by Members of the New Democracy, which will take place tomorrow, Wednesday, 2 December at noon.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u351	Mr President, you have not said what articles there will be a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u352	I read you: Under Rule 72 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the undersigned Members of Parliament - it says - holding a roll-call vote on Articles 4 and 19 and on Amendments Nos 80 and 23/12-2015, and by general number 84 and a special bill No 27/12-2015 of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food: 'Bossible land of Greece and other provisions'. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-01-S1-commons.u353	With the consent of the House at 16.15 a meeting is closed for Tuesday, December 1, at 18.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work: only discussion and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Structuring the State Budget for the financial year 2016".
