ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 16-12-2015, the minutes of its meeting, of Wednesday, 16 December 2015, with regard to the resolution as a whole of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Adapting Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive 2014/60/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the return of cultural goods, which have been unlawfully removed from the territory of a Member State and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr. Katsy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The fourth question will be discussed with number 291/11-12-2015, topical question from the F Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou, Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, on the subsecution of the Dodecanese Port Corps. The Minister responsible will answer Mr. Theodore Dritsas. Mr. Cremastino has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, Minister, one of the biggest problems facing immigration and the refugee problem is the preservation of the maritime borders. As you know, the European Union has pointed out that the borders are inadequately guarded, and it even went one step further and called for Turkey's assistance, which is not very honourable for the country. This makes the problem even more acute because from protests from the ports, particularly from the trade unions, it seems that the region of the islands of the Dodecanese - because they are protesting - cannot in fact be protected because the staff are insufficient. In fact, they say there is an unequal distribution of staff. In other words, while, for example, they denounce, Kos is an outbreak of unrest at the moment, the planned positions are fifty with thirty ports. While in Thessaloniki, on predicted positions of sixty - as the ports say - they have three hundred and fifty ports. The question therefore is this: Are there any such problems, can there be at least a levelling-up so that there is no unequal distribution, so that they too can breathe and be better placed to guard borders? Because basically these people say that even ships support them because there is no money. These are their complaints. I do not know whether there is the element of exaggeration here, but, in any case, it seems that in order to protest so much, there is certainly a great deal of truth. The reasonable question therefore is what can be done in practice so that this situation can be improved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u5	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vice-President, with all due respect I shall begin with a complaint. Last time, indeed, I had a serious coma, I couldn't come. There was a critical attitude on your part. I think there must be understanding for the ministers too, despite the fact that I fully accept that the duty of the ministers to respond to parliamentary scrutiny is not being discussed. But there are also serious obstacles that at some point do not allow. In any case, I had also informed you and the House in good time. The question you are asking is very important - obviously - and very topical. My answer will not only be to you, it will also be to the members of the Port House who are struggling for them, because they are raising enormous weight in the conditions that we are going through with the great refugee and migration flows, but it will also be to the Greek people, because the issue has a wider dimension. I shall begin with the term 'unguarded borders'. We should not accede to such views. There are no sea borders unreservedly Greek. The border is guarded, controlled, there is full surveillance. According to the laws of the Greek State, the international rules are another the obligation of each country to secure, certain and unobstructed entry of refugees under control and another the ‘unguarded borders’. This is another debate on the 'unguarded borders'. And not to invoke arguments that are beginning to develop in the European Union too. There are purposes. We do not accept, for the sake of an internal debate, arguments which are intentional from the outset to bring to the process of addressing this huge problem, which is both Greek and European and international. These are elementary and we should take care of them. However, there are no unguarded borders. Now, with regard to staffing, you are right to mention in your question that I had spoken in good time about chronic inertia in relation to the issues of transfer and staffing the services of the Port House. It's not the Ministry, the Minister who's making the transfers. It's the headquarters that's making the transfers. However, political responsibility, supervision and control belong to me and I take the full responsibility for it, as the political leader and the Port Authority and the Ministry. When we say 'chronic inertia', there is indeed a President-in-Office decree, which everyone thinks is not right and needs to change - and the procedure is already in progress, a committee has been set up to change - which, however, was the only legislative framework for transfers. Everyone admits - and everyone can tell you about this - that it has never been implemented for years. For the first time in our term of office, his process of implementation came forward. That was the direction and command. Yes, the legislative framework may not be the best, it has gaps, it has problems, it has serious issues, but that is what we have. Until we change it, we have to implement it. In this direction they were selected in the first phase to staff the islands of the Eastern Aegean, for the port region of the Dodecanese and the northern Aegean - eighth and ninth CENELS - about two hundred eighty executives to be transferred. This has resulted from the implementation of the Presidential Decree. We had about two hundred twenty objections, appeals. Each executive was invoked serious problems. Fifty. In the region of Dodecanese, in fact, they were chosen to become a hundred forty - four moves to the Dodecanese. Thirty of them have been executed so far. There is another need, however, for people who have stayed on the islands of the first line four, five, six years, while they are entitled to return to other services three years, and this has not been done. So now we have the return. We are trying in these circumstances, having also secured economic needs and fuels - of another order - to make all things more rational as possible. We haven't fully succeeded. This whole process is on the way. However, I will tell you in my denture - because I've exhausted my time - the evidence of the Dodecanese, how much coverage it has and how much it hasn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, I would like you to give me a little more time to respond to the Minister's comment on me. Mr Dritsa, I barely mentioned to you as a good example of the Conference of Presidents, because that is where the matter was raised. Last time you couldn't come, you explained it. Usually the ministers are talking about coma, and I said that Mr. Dritsas exceptionally justified it. So with you the opposite happened. As far as the other ministers are concerned, I said that when they have a coma, it would be good to say where they are, and that is understandable. Just saying that they have a coma and that the ministers do not come, that is neither polite nor appropriate to the House that is supposed to represent the Greek people. That's what I said, and I have you in the exceptions, to God! On the substance, I am pleased first of all to say that the borders are kept. But I myself have heard the Prime Minister at an election press conference pointing out the opposite that we cannot practically have border guards because of the seaside. And, of course, when the European Union hears this, it starts to ask itself. And when it comes to telling us to make a common policy with Turkey on preservation, they obviously find that we cannot do it ourselves. I'm glad you're telling me they're guarding the border. The picture we gave, however, was unreserved. That's my comment. As far as the issue of the question at issue is concerned, I would ask you as soon as possible to take the steps required for the President-in-Office's decree in order to restore what is not present today. There cannot, in other words, be less organic positions and more ports and where the first line of fire is really less than the organic positions. In other words, the Presidential Decree should come out as soon as possible and be equal to the distribution of ports. That would be the ideal. The request to you is to speed up the procedure as far as possible. The fact that, in my opinion, the European Union must be forced to give more rapid, more force to FRONTEX in order to really safeguard our borders, that is self-evident. I believe that you will try to do that in this direction, because Italy, for example, managed in October to have eight thousand refugees, immigrants who entered Europe and we in the same month have two hundred and sixteen thousand, based on a European Union communication. Eight thousand with the two hundred and sixteen thousand is a huge difference, and our islands are far from each other half or an hour fast, because the distances are small, while Italy has the Libyan Sea which is vast, but even its navy has been enlisted. So something needs to be done so that these figures can be equated. The slave traders where they find easy passage, that's where they go. In Italy eight thousand in October, in Greece two hundred and sixteen thousand. The difference is huge. So, in order not to disapprove, I would ask you to comment on what kind of redistribution might take place. One, two, three months? In a reasonable time, because, of course, if we have been talking for years, you realize that we are all out of the question. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u9	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u10	Mr. Kremastino, I assure you, it is a great mistake to speak of unguarded borders, not only because it is not to be, but because it is not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u11	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u12	Allow me, Mr. Kremastein. What does "sea guarded borders" mean? I told you before. Each country is obliged to have a safe refugee route. It's international treaties, international conventions. In our country they are respected under control. No one comes in without any control. Nobody! Not even one! And it turns out by the facts. Even in the carnage in Paris, the two that had passed - because the other five - six were residents of Paris and Brussels - were completely checked and their data were given to the international services, as is the case for all. There are no unguarded borders.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u13	I did not say that about the unguarded borders, Minister. The Prime Minister said 'unforgettable borders'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u14	No, the Prime Minister didn't say so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u15	I heard it in his statements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u16	You're giving another interpretation of what the Prime Minister said. The full phrase of the Prime Minister is that the sea borders cannot be kept in the same way as land.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u17	He didn't say that. I heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u18	That's what he said, Mr. Kremastein. And this is a common place. Don't get carried away. That's dangerous. I'm appealing to you. We are taking care of and eating out of purposes that do not serve our national interests. He needs attention. There are no sea borders unguarded. It's a legend. In accordance with international rules and international conditions, sea borders are supervised. Protection of navigation, control of the course of each incoming and this means guarding borders. Don't accuse us of confrontation. Italy does not mainly accept migration and not refugees. Other rules are being observed. Let us not invoke the example of Italy. Italy has thousands of dead in the Mediterranean. Attention to this, too, Mr. Kremastine. I'm going to the point. As I told you, we have a constant improvement. In July, throughout the Dodecanese, we had three hundred ninety-seven executives in August, four hundred eighty-nine in September, in October four hundred thirty-eight in October, in November four hundred forty-seven and in December four hundred sixty-six. We must have according to organic composition, five hundred sixteen. We haven't gotten there. It should be noted that organic compositions have been drastically reduced not by our government but by yours, Mr Kremastine. We don't have the evidence for Kos. The official, yesterday, elements of the Headquarters are that the Port Authority of Kos has an organic composition of seventy and, indeed, is missing. She's been assigned to 50 people. Of course, there are also the CRLs, the special powers, which are fifteen people, the organic composition, which is responsible for twelve. There are, then, in Nisserro, corresponding forces in the Cardamana. Indeed, there is an unequal distribution, although the associations of the Macedonian Coastal Body say that the unequal distribution is not the case, that "we were well-established". The evidence shows that, in northern Greece and in other parts of the country, there is overstood, but according to the plunged organogram of the Port House, but in any case, there is overstood. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I have explained to you that this President-in-Office of the Council - and in itself and its failure to implement it for a number of years - has created an irrational system. I would like to say to you that, according to these developments, it has been shaped in some cases - it is not general - regimes of irreversible importance. But these are legally regulated by the legislative procedure. We're all trying to solve this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u19	Put a perfect one, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u20	I'm done, Mr. President. We have in front of us in the next forty months four cadets who will come out of school and a hundred and eleven officers. The competition, which will begin soon, for the forty-nine port guards. Apart from these figures I mentioned, because we have also moved on to the approval of the parties - we have already legislated for this - we will have an even greater number of signifiers and officers in the next period. These, together with the change in the President-in-Office's decree, which, as I have said, there is a committee working on it, we believe, will really change the climate and a chronic problem in the Port House, a pathogenousity in relation to the transfers, which everyone knows, will be drastically corrected and much improved. I shall conclude, Mr President. All of this is an obligation of the Greek state, but much more is an obligation to the representatives of the Port Authority, who really give their lives and their best self in this battle. I would like to inform the House that next week - Tuesday - and the Athens Academy, after UNICEF, will commemorate its enormous action throughout this year at the Athens Academy's anniversary celebration, as foreseen every year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u21	I would like to inform the House that the first under No 298/14-12-2015 question of the first cycle of the MP Ioannina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the "incorrect mobilisation of mature teachers in second-rate schools", is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. Also, the second question under number 300/14-12-2015 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, regarding the lack of national planning for the management and hospitality of immigrants, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The fourth, with number 290/10-12-2015, timely question of the first cycle of MP II of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of State, concerning the apparent expiry of the deadline of the members of the Boards of Independent Authorities in the Law on Media Authorisation, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, it is common in every case and thank you very much. The Minister was very well, that is because he has a very serious obligation - I think he should be with the Prime Minister at the summit - he informed my office one day ago. That's how it's supposed to be, not a few hours ago. Because it has no Secretary-General, obviously, we said that we were totally agreed to postpone the debate on the topical and urgent question. Mr President, because the government is now rushing to discuss draft laws before Christmas and voting, Parliament's control is being abolished and so we are going after holidays. My point will remain timely.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u23	We'll have two days at a time after holidays, i.e. Thursday and Friday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u24	Yes, but the timely parliamentary control has its purpose. Otherwise, it would be just parliamentary control. The timely parliamentary scrutiny means that it addresses up-to-date issues. The topicality of the issue that I have raised - not only in this Chamber but in society - is related to the two-month deadline given by the Act at the initiative of Mr Pappas to supplement the members of the National Broadcasting Council. The two months have passed, Mr President. You are very experienced, you have excellent memory, and you remember that the draft media law was passed in urgent procedures to prevent it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Loverdo, you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u26	Mr. President, will you let me speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u27	You're welcome. I for your own convenience...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u28	For your own convenience, will you let me speak? I have no objection to interrupting me, but then don't tell me to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u29	Oh, no. You just know that a certain majority is required. You know that the New Democracy Party has been invited at least to agree to the process to proceed, because a majority of 4/5 is required. Understand? That's why I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u30	Very well I understand, but let me say it on the part of my own understanding, which I think is very close to the law and very accurate. I think so. Mr President, there has been an intervention in the functioning of the independent authorities which the government has not very much appreciated. A sample is also the payroll deterioration of its scientific staff, as the Parliament's Scientific Studies Directorate for the draft law passed the day before yesterday. The government made legislative intervention and banned from the independent members of their administrations who had the above term of office under law. For the National Broadcasting Council, that was a disaster. The government unwanted - Mrs Alexiou - may have left, but the board of directors has a member at the moment. People can't work. The two-month deadline has been made, Mr President, so that the loose ends can be settled quickly and we can move on to the new licensing regime. Isn't that why the House came here with urgent procedures? It's been two months. As far as the opposition is concerned, whatever it may be, we are very careful about what we are doing at the Conference of Presidents. The institutional guarantees for the members of the administration of the constitutionally independent authorities, i.e. the five, are very strong with 4/5. We're not going to go over there to tear things apart. But shouldn't the government bring forward its proposals? It's about two months, Mr. President. I was asking Mr Pappa - we will talk after the holidays, because then the subject will remain timely - what will happen and whether we will proceed with this. We have a whole space pending, but as long as the loose ends, games are played.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u31	You know, Mr Loverdo, you are developing a question and there is no Minister to answer it. My role isn't to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u32	You're experienced and you're also a journalist. They're playing games in the space. This unfinishedness must cease to be unfinished. We will contribute, but, above all, the majority must make a contribution, because it makes proposals. Minority's not making suggestions. Finally, let's get serious. The people rejected programmes on 20 September and accepted programmes. The majority programmes accepted them. They will rule and we will oppose. The institutional guarantee of 4/5 will be respected, and we will not be making a mess. At last, however, the government must open its papers. As long as the time goes, we suspect that the loose ends and the toys are of interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u33	Thank you. I just wanted to clarify - because it is not my role to answer a question - that the Government and Parliament said that if the Qualified Opposition does not respond, they will proceed to a legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u34	Excuse me. That's another matter, you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, 50 students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd High School of Salamis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The eighth will now be discussed under number 289/10-12-2015, a top-level question for the first cycle of MP II Piraeus of the Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the treatment of the shortages of educational staff in the schools of the Municipality of Saronicos. The Minister will answer Mr. Friends. Mrs Theodora's speech is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we see it's been three months since the schools opened. We now arrive at Christmas holidays and vacant posts and primary education and in secondary school have not yet been covered. We have great problems in teaching hours for both students and teachers. At primary level, I was informed that the vacant posts are about three thousand ninety more. I don't know if a few have been filled. So far, that's what there was. Now, especially for the question I have asked about the Municipality of Saronicos, there is a very big problem both in primary and secondary education, that is, both in primary and in high schools. So there's the problem for both the students and the parents and the teachers. It's not like teachers don't have a problem either. They can't make it in hours. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] In fact, in the Municipality of Saronicos on November 23, the association of parents - pupils of primary and secondary education of the Municipality of Saronicos occupied the offices of the department of primary education in the eastern Attica, expressing its opposition to the tragic situation in the schools of the Municipality of Saronic. I will tell you something else about the entire schools that have begun to implement. There are too many shortcomings in the city of Saronicos as well as in other days that exist throughout the country, so there is a gap, that is, instead of ending the full-day school class at 16.15, it ends at 13.15 ́. So, as you can see, the parents of the students are in a very difficult situation, because they are forced or left to work - which at this time is very difficult to keep, as well as to find it, first of all - or to be forced to pay someone to take their children from school. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What I would like to ask, Minister, is what action do you intend to take to cover the immediate gaps in primary and secondary education, especially in the municipality of Saronicos? What do you intend to do for the whole day’s schools of the Municipality of Saronicos, in order to avoid and avoid the most unfavourable consequences for schools, children and parents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u37	I hope all this doesn't apply to the schools in Salamis. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you have described problems in schools, not the extent, of course, that we read. These are problems that have been inherited from previous governments, because over the past five years they have been put out of education for over thirty thousand teachers and no appointments have been made. Literally, in the last two years zero appointments and previous years under a thousand. This is an image that instead of having a 'new school', as the previous speakers have said, Mrs Diamantopoulou and Mr Arvanitopoulos, we have a 'naked school' on at least some aspects of it. This year we did everything we could most, given the difficult financial circumstances, and we achieved the following: First of all, we must prejudge the continuing fall in the budget. Over the past five years, we have had a 35% drop in the funds for education. This year we have 2.8% of GDP. This is the first time the fall has stopped. And not just that. The medium-term programme of the Samara government predicted that we would have 300 million less funding for education this year, that is, we have avoided that. The same medium-term programme, which we, as you know, will review in the next few days, provided for training of 2% of GDP, that is, a scary fall in 2018. I say - with tangible examples - that we have brought down the fall and we will pursue a policy not only of stirring up, but also of raising, on public funds for education. Handmade example. This year we hired twenty-two thousand sixty-sixteen alternate teachers in primary and secondary education, while last year eighty-sixty-sixty-nine were recruited, i.e. an increase in recruitment by 22.45%. It's not a bit. I repeat, there are gaps less than last year, but there are. Especially for the primary education of East Attica, which is of interest to you directly, we have hired three hundred sixty teachers, ninety preschool teachers, fifteen English teachers, eight Germans, thirty one artist, twenty-four gymnastics, five musicians, twenty-four theatreists and two dramatists. Nevertheless, there are gaps, a hundred and seven in total in eastern Attica, teachers and educational specialists to cover the full day's program. Schools are all working. But there are, I repeat, seven gaps, mainly in educational skills. As for special treatment in East Attica, we hired twenty - eight nurseries and sixty - eight teachers. In order to meet the needs of general education in the secondary education of East Attica, where the Municipality of Saronicos belongs, we have hired fifty teachers of various specialties, while for the special treatment of twenty-three teachers. I will also tell you a problem that we are facing and which is recorded in the creation of gaps. Several hired alternates do not show up for service or take over and resign. The gap which arises is obviously transferred to a next phase of subsistence recruitment and is covered by some delay. I want to tell you that we're trying to give an image to the school, not false but true. We are trying to deal with the problems that children and teachers have, with priority in the problems faced by the poorest children, by the people's classes. This is why we have been reintroducing the institution of strengthening teaching, that is, free instruction this afternoon, in order that children with learning problems or problems in general attending courses may be strengthened by an educational effort. The institution of strengthening teaching will begin on the second quarter of January. There are funds approved, a thousand and twenty-five, and the staff of the teachers who are already serving and who are not full-time will also be exploited. It is obvious that for the entire school you mentioned, our attempt is to operate the entire day's schools and that's the rule. We have problems in some areas, such as the eastern Attica, because there is a population explosion, as you know, in recent years, and there need to be specific measures concerning, not only the teachers who need to be recruited, but also the organic positions that need to be increased and the schools that need to be built, because there is a real problem in Eastern Attica in certain regions. We are dealing with all this, and we believe that since September there will be something more specific that people will see in the region themselves. One problem, however, which prevents us from being on schedule consistently, is the multiplier of primary school. Today, three kinds of primary schools operate. The classic, ending at 12 noon, the open one, ending at 2 noon and the full day, ending at 4 noon. I'm forgetting the minutes - okay - I'm talking about the hours. It is clear that there is a serious problem of constitutional equality here. There can be no children who do not have the same learning and life opportunities in school. However, there are also essential issues to which I referred at the outset. The effort we are now making to reorganise the schools as a whole from September is to have a kind of school and, of course, to strengthen the entire day's school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u39	Mrs. Big Housekeeper has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u40	Minister, what you told us was very interesting. But they don't cover me, because you just told me what the previous New Democracy-PASOK conflict did. I think that today's SYRIZA-ANEL conflict has given more samples to its voters, so voters expect something different. I am not covered by what you said, namely that you continued or that there were fewer positions and that you covered something. Anyway! The other thing is, we're here to spend 1/3 of the school season, we're on Christmas holiday. In a short time, after Christmas holidays, it will begin six months in secondary education and the seats are empty. You're telling me they'll have medical coverage. If there's no regular post for teachers in secondary school, will the school course cover them? So it's like you're telling us that there's a well-being, that's fine with care. You cannot cover the positions that must be covered by the Constitution and the Law in education. Now we're putting a little bit more than saying we're going to have a tutorial class and we're all covered? Let us first cover the organic positions that are missing from there and then we see how care is taken. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr DIMITRIOS KREMASTINOS, takes over the President's seat.]] The rule is that the entire school should be held in all regions and there should be no smaller and larger municipal schools. The rule is that there should be a full day for all primary education. Children need and stay longer in school, and go prepared to go home and have no further reading by doing their homework but also by doing a foreign language. Minister, I don't think I'm covered in your answer. I am therefore partly covered, and not entirely, because there are gaps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u41	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u42	Madam President, I would like to be honest with you because you are making an effort to understand the problem. The problem of vacancies in schools is complex. There are two kinds of gaps. The plastics and the real thing. The plastic gaps aren't very small. I'm not saying the real gaps disappear. Unfortunately, however, the way in which schools are organized and, in particular, the way in which the addresses are organized facilitates the existence of fictitious gaps, which teachers themselves have to admit - I mean the managers - in the case where one speaks with them. And I will give you a few examples. At the end of October, in a large educational district in Athens, we had a hundred and fifty surpluses of teachers in secondary education and a hundred deficits of the same skills in primary education. The doors are next door! It was therefore necessary to carry out a special investigation and to have complaints and labels from teachers in order to see what we should do. So we have faced problems with an inertial function in schools, if one can transfer specialties from secondary education to primary education. To be a little bit on things, that is, we need to do a reorganization, make a service change. This plan is going on in a few months - I mean long before this year ends - so that in May - June the story of the distractions is also over. There will be a radical reduction in the number of seconded teachers to return to the room. I also want to tell you that, in the objectives of the government, depending on budgetary developments, it is this year that the history of audacity breaks and become a few thousand - it is not possible to say how much at the moment, we have no concrete budgetary response - but since this year the appointment of permanent teachers to education. We do everything we can to change the school to change everyday life in school, to make it more friendly to the student and the teacher and to make it more essential. We trust teachers' efforts, because without them, no matter what we do, the school cannot function in a substantial way. And we believe that, if the question of the education of the public school becomes a central issue in society and not a case by case and by chance at the beginning of the year, but throughout the course, then the school can regain its central place in society and the children can acquire what they miss, that is, a cooperative school, a school without insurmountable competition, a school that will form it, a school open to society, a school, as it used to be, a cell of social life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Minister. I have the honour to announce to the House the news sheet on Friday 18 December 2015, which, for brief reasons, are submitted in the Minutes: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) The question asked by MP Corinth of the Radical Left Coalition, Maria Theleritis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the compliance of credit institutions and the facilitation of borrowers to subject them to the n. 3869/2010, as amended and valid until 31/12/2015. Under No 321/15-12-2015, a topical question by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Ekaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of Finance, concerning the implementation of Decision 2194/2014 of the HR on the compensation of officials of the Armed Forces. The question by No. 315/14-12-2015 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister of National Defence, on the "creation of a settlement of illegal immigrants and hotspots in Leros from the Greek Army". The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism about the completion of the integrated projects in the programme "Small SMEs active in the tourism sector in 2007-2013". The question by No 311/14-12-2015 of the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Ioannis Giokas, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the operation of a guarantee fund for the compensation of players. The question by No. 305/14-12-2015 of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Jasona Fotidas, to the Minister of Health, about the sustainability of the Therapeutic - Educational Centre of MEDIINA in Patras. Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Demetrios Kammenos, for his excellent report. Tobacco control. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) The question by No 322/15-12/2015 of the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food concerning the problems of potato producers in Lower Neuroscope Drama due to the existence of harmful fungus in agricultural land. The question by No 316/14-12-2015 of the Member of Parliament of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Aivatidis to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about "the risk to the residents of the dwellings of the settlement “KERKYRA IV - KULINA” due to static, structural and antisemitic insufficiency of constructions". The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the inclusion of the energy netting in the new rural development programme 2014-2020. The 329/15-12-2015 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the closure of the Centre for Physics and Medical Rehabilitation in Rethymno due to a total lack of personnel. The 306/14-12-2015 topical question by MP B' Athens, Georgios Amyras, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the position of the Ministry for the PPC's request for free allocation of emission allowances to lignite generation. The question by No 320/15-12-2015 of the Member of Parliament of the Independent Greeks, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the threatened ratification of the loss of power in the event of the consumer being unable to repay. The Question No 309/14-12-2015 by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the problems arising from the merging of police departments in Achaia. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, concerning procedural measures to clear up mutual and clear responses between the public and the public so that they may be made subject to their application to the most favourable regime. We move to the third with number 294/11-12-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Piraeus People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Ragos to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on "the separatist activities and cooperation with the Ankara Muslims of Thrace". The Minister will answer Mr. Kurublis. Please, Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in recent years we have learned from good press reports and press reports that there is a pro-Turkish party, which is active in our Thrace and which is making moves in order to take place autonomously in elections and elect MPs. The only problem they have at the moment is the electoral law that sets the 3% limit in order not to enter the Greek Parliament. However, with information we hear and learn, the government is planning - and good for me - to apply the mere proportional system as our country's electoral system. That's right. But you are planning, from what it is said, to remove that 3% limit as well and to make it much smaller. In this case we have a big problem and a big issue, in order to represent a party, which is purely pro-Turkish, has separatist tendencies and acts within our own country. Indeed, on 18 November in Brussels, the head of the Turkish party, Mustafa Tsavus, had a job with François Alphonsi, who is President of the Free European Alliance, a European group. So, we see these people are about to make their moves. We would like to ask you. As a Greek Government, what measures are you taking to save Greece from this huge problem that is going to be created? And secondly, what are the moves that the Greek Government has made or will make to respond to and stop the irresponsible and unacceptable attitude of the Turkish Consulate - which has no reason to be in our country and in Thrace - and this party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Curublis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand the concern raised by this timely question. I would like to say, however, that Greece is a democratic country, a constitution and a law. And everyone must know that within Greek domination, within the Greek area, the Greek Republic, the law is observed and will be observed and no one can evade and go beyond the law. Mr President, you know that the restrictive policies that have been pursued in recent years - I say for many years - in this region, I do not think they have given the benefit of democracy as well as of the country. Therefore, we consider that there are rights under the Constitution and the laws, and there are obligations. And we are not prepared to accept behaviours that are outside the framework of the laws and definitions of the Constitution. This is the message we send in every direction. We want everyone to function on the basis of his choices but under the Constitution. You know very well that this is also an example for neighbouring countries, which are oppressing with alpha or beta a way of various religious minorities. So we have another logic. But what I would like to emphasise very clearly is that, as far as the electoral law is concerned, there has been no debate at all. We are simply discussing the need to have a fairer law, but we are taking into account parameters such as the Treaty of Lausanne or any - if any - thoughts of this kind that concern you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u47	Thank you. You have the floor again, Mr. Rabbi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u48	Minister, you have not specifically answered some things to me. Because I have heard you mention the laws and the Constitution, which is there and which, of course, we want to keep, unlike many others who have not kept it to us, I will only tell you that the head, who had established this Party of Friendship, Equality and Peace, supposedly, the late Sadik, was according to Turkey's Minister of State, Arinch, a pioneer in the case of the extremism of Thrace. They've told these things themselves. So their purpose is specific. And because they are talking about the Constitution and the laws of Greece and the state, the Turkish consulate and the same pro-Turkish party, which is created, they do not respect, for example, the Treaty of Lausanne, which you mentioned a moment ago. Because the Treaty of Lausanne of course speaks of a Muslim minority that exists in Thrace which has nothing to do with the Turks. This pro-Turkish party speaks clearly of a Turkish minority. Therefore, if there were any application of the treaties and constitutions of Greece, this party should not even exist and exist. But here is not just this issue, which, of course, we do not see you doing anything about it. And I'm not talking to you personally. Here we say that people are preparing, going, having contacts with MEPs and even leading groups within the European Parliament. They have contacted and contacted the President of the Muslim Union, Naim Elgadore, who allegedly represents Muslims here. But they play their game, and that's clear. He talks with this Turkish party to come down to their next candidate elections. Also, this guy has been with Tayyip Erdogan's son, Bill Erdogan at least five to six times in meetings in West Thrace and Constantinople. So, here we see there's a huge problem. It's on our feet. The Greek Government sees it or does not see it and does nothing to stop it. So our questions are specifically related to this issue. How are we gonna stop what's there? And if these people come down to the election, how will they get off with those posts they have? People speak directly of a separatist tendency in Thrace, speak directly of a Turkish minority. How, then, does the Greek Government allow them and they participate and propaganda and poison the Greek people over there? We also have to say that - you know very well - the Turkish consulate has created a terrible climate on our Thrace. There is a Turkish bank over there, which gives loans from interest-free to Muslim citizens, trying to tie them in hand and give loans to Greeks who are also indebted, in order to slowly take the whole land that belongs to Greeks and even Muslims, which are Greeks and have nothing to do with the Turkish state. Here, these are specific issues. How are you gonna stop this thing? How will you prevent this propaganda trend that the Turkish consulate has unleashed with this particular party? If anyone's going to Thrace right now, he thinks they're in a foreign state. These are the answers I want you to give us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. Mr. Kurubli, answer Mr. Bunny's dentology.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Colleague, the guards are looking out. And we all have the same anxiety in national matters. I would therefore like to assure you that the government is very carefully following any initiative which is taking place anywhere in the country and has referred to these issues. I would like to say to you, therefore, that all these initiatives are being followed, and I would like to stress that there is, frankly, no concern, given that everything that is escaping the law will also have the same answer. As far as the consulate is concerned, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as you can imagine, has the responsibility of monitoring and conduct of consulates operating in the country. That is why I want to assure you that things are in a direction which does not create this concern, which I understand and justify, but I must explain. Now, as far as the percentages of electoral law are concerned, I would like to assure you that the government will open this issue, but it has no thought to understand it or surprise the parties. We want to open a sincere debate with all the parties and see on the basis of today's realities if we can go to a electoral law that really reflects the needs of the time. There is, therefore, one issue which concerns you and which, I would like to assure you, is not going to cause such problems that occur in this region. I would like to stress that everyone must know that the country is moving within the framework of the Constitution and that its international relations, international problems, national problems are subject to the Treaty of Lausanne and international law. With regard to the concern that has been expressed many times, I would like to say to these issues that the country's borders are unnecessarily unnecessarily. And this has been distributed by the Prime Minister in every direction. I therefore want the assurance that the government is following national issues with due care. In this way, I would like to stress very clearly that there is no concern about national issues. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u51	The sixth, number 285/8-12/2015, timely question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas, to the Minister of Health, concerning the shortcomings of specific medicines in many hospitals in the country, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The seventh under number 296/14-12-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance concerning the validation of a fine of 50 cm. In the 'VODAFONE' by the CoR, it is not debated because of the Minister's impediment and is deleted. We move to the sixth under number 287/9-12-2015 topical question by the Member of the President of Heraklion of the Potamios Mr Spyridon Danellis to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction on the adoption and promotion of the incineration of the dead from the state. Mr Dannelly's timely question will be answered by the Minister, Mr Kurublis. Here, Mr. Dannelly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. The assumption of ensuring the burning of the dead came back to the public debate after the death of a nameless citizen, Mina Hajisavva, but it employs many of our fellow citizens every day. However, these issues are not being discussed because they concern anonymous citizens, when at the most difficult times of the loss of a person concerned, citizens must secure the procedures - which are painful and costly - of burning their loved one in a neighbouring country of Greece. The question of safeguarding the right to burn the dead is not a new case. We have been concerned since the 1960s with the burning of the body of Maria Kallas and various other names Greeks. I would remind you that the introduction of this right has begun to be discussed in the Greek Chamber of Deputies seventeen years ago. On 10 November 1998, I was honoured as a Member of the Left and Progress coalition then to sign, together with eleven other colleagues, an intergroup amendment proposed to the then Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Floridis, where we called for the right to burn the dead, whose religion or dogma is not opposed to burning. Of course, after many credits he has gone to the basket of useless people and this procedure has been pending since. Today, of course, Minister, you will tell me that there is a legal framework that ensures the possibility of building and operating incineration centres of the dead, but we know that this right of local government has never been able to exercise it until now, because it has always been against the objections of the local church. The fiasco of the Municipality of Markopoulos Mesogeias is known when everything was ready to start building such a center. With the negative attitude of the local metropolis the idea has been abandoned and, of course, no such centre is working today. This is an issue that concerns the core of human rights, namely the right to a decent self-determination of our body after our death and has a great economic dimension. I would remind you that a documentary was recently presented in the valid BBC under the heading 'Greece: No place to die', which dealt with how much the exotic process and the burial of a dead man in the days of crisis and the maintenance of bones in the osarios, all this macabre process, is costing. That is why I think your Government, at least a government which is much more sensitive in theory, must ensure the conditions to establish and operate such incineration centres of the dead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Curublis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, before I reply, because I have a worship in Greek, you will allow me to say that there are no anonymous citizens. Citizens are surnames and phantoms, and according to the Constitution they are all equal. Therefore, there are no anonymous citizens. It is truly interesting to ask the honourable Member's timely question on a crucial issue that has caused turmoil, reactions and obsessions in the past, I think it is exaggerated and unrealistic. I want to be upright. Everyone knows my views on Orthodoxy and its important and historic role in this place, but Orthodoxy, who knows it and believe it, has the freedom of choice within the DNA. And I think it's wrong for those who make this kind of obsession. Mr Colleague, you really know very well and you and I because it is so. You were Members of Parliament who opened this matter. He has always found a 'wall' - let me have this expression - this issue, which, after all, is also a quality of democracy and a guarantee of every citizen's free will to define himself. This case has gone through several difficulties of this kind. And while relevant laws were in place, they had not actually been implemented. There was a reluctance at institutional level too to be honest. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] The reality, however, sometimes forces all of us to look at it in the face. And I think that today, at the moment we are talking about, this is a moment when this effort is becoming more specific. I shall reply, Mr President, to the second part.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Danielle, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, Minister, obviously the uniqueness of each of us is given. The last name or anonymous thing has to do with the public sphere, and that's all. It has nothing to do with the value of the uniqueness of each of us. Mr Minister, I am aware of the proposals you are bringing to a bill which is already being discussed in a committee. When I tabled the question, I did not have these provisions in mind. But they are not the ones who solve the problem. Local government has been weak because it is vulnerable to the pressures of local churches, local communities. The same will be impossible to implement a similar design and the solution that is now being proposed. It will be impossible to improve the current situation, because the Greek classified association of Attica Prefecture, which is apparent from your proposal that he will be responsible, does not have the capacity. Here we go to an inter-universal body that does not guarantee what we want. It also raises another problem, because in accordance with the ETUC Regulation its work is temporary storage, processing, transformation, recycling and disposal of solid waste in general through the operation of relevant installations and construction of waste water treatment and recovery plants. Now you understand - I think such a solution creates a new issue, an issue of inadmissibility for the dead. Why do we know and hear them already from the lamb the zealous clergy say in Sunday sermons: 'Will you take your dead to the trash'? And, of course, we must not forget that cemeteries - because such an issue has also been raised by the church - are the property of the municipalities. Inside cemeteries there should be incineration centers of the dead or in the cemeteries. It is known that there is a huge problem of finding space for the expansion of cemeteries. As mayor and all mayors know that it is impossible in today's conditions to ensure the expansion of cemeteries. There is also such a question, namely the environment and the placement of such sites. There is a great hypocrisy, which we cannot continue to tolerate - and hypocrisy on the part of the Church, particularly - which is the macabre process of exposing the bones where we have a legitimate syllable. This is deeply inconsistent with the dead and extremely painful moments for the relatives of the dead. This whole process, I think, will be going through a cleansing phase, which will be for everyone, and for the Church itself, if we can only realistically ensure that one or two incineration centres of the dead are created throughout Greece. We don't need any more such centres. I would add here, Minister, that it is not a dogmatic matter. Of course, I'm not a theologian. Others, however, have no issue with cremation in our neighboring Orthodox lands. I think there are enlightened hierarchs - they cannot exist - who too should open a difficult issue. However, Greece should finally meet with the Enlightenment, because such issues should not yet be concerned with Greek society. This is a wonderful opportunity for your Government, since we all realise that the economic situation does not allow it to implement the plans that it would like in the big economic field. But let us resolve such issues, which have to do with codes of principle and values, which can easily do so. Let you have the courage to do it, but do not throw the ball back on the platform, because the solution you seem to suggest, that is to say, the transfer of powers from the municipalities to the Specially classified Association of Attica, will certainly not solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u57	As far as I know, Mr Dannelly, the main objection to the Church is that incinerators should not be in cemeteries. And the Archbishop has said it. Each...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u58	It's not the main thing. There are too many objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u59	No, that's what I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u60	This is the recent objection. That's why I said that...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u61	I don't know what the Minister says.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u62	The cemeteries, however, belong to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u63	I know that this is the main objection. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u64	Mr President, the issue we are discussing does not seem to me to have any objections. It's a delicate matter. Since ancient times, tradition has had an absolute respect for the dead. Antiquity also had burial and burning. It is therefore an issue that comes from the centuries and needs to be approached with the necessary responsibility for traditions, for the choices each man has. I am sure that Orthodoxy, which, as I said, has within it the element of freedom and choice, has respect for these issues - that was its tradition through the centuries - I do not think you will understand this reality. The government, therefore, is aware of these situations, but also of this need, has included in the draft legislation currently under discussion in Article 20 and 21 two provisions so that the institutions that operate, such as the classified Association in Athens, as well as the local government, can create these centres in private spaces, as well as in places that have been taken for use. So local selfgovernment should also be aware of its responsibilities. Of course, we are open, Mr Colleague - the issue is being discussed in this House at the moment - and you also contribute with your experience, your knowledge and the other parties. Because I think it is a matter on which micro-policy should not be played, because I fear that some will also be tempted by micro-policy. It is therefore an issue that must be tackled with realism, seriously, with coolness. This choice must be made. Ultimately, this option should not be implemented by sending a dead man to a neighbouring country. I think we should have the possibility as a society and as a state of the turbulence that we should do every time to be, as I said, close to reality. I think we have the same frequency in this matter, Mr President. I listened very carefully to your views. You realise that the House will have the last word to complete it, to correct it, so that there really is an institutional framework to resolve this issue, because it is time and mature to resolve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational program "Workery Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, thirteen students and students and three educational attendants from the Italian Municipal School of Athens. Also, our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they were toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way the House organizes and operates, twenty-eight students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Pallini High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We move to the fifth under No. 302/14-12/2015 for a top-level question by the Member of Parliament, Etolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the payment of farmers who have joined the programme for organic farming without conditions and conditions. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Bolaris. Please, Mr Moraite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, strong concern is caused by thousands of farmers throughout the country by the problem caused by the payment of organic livestock. There is information that there will not be paid for any farmers who have no residence permit. Of course, this is a very serious issue for which farmers themselves are not responsible. Although they have taken the necessary steps, there is a coma, which I shall mention next, because of the services of the state and, in particular, the services of the Forestry Department. And that's not all. They have given enough money in terms of building permits, topographic charts and so on. Also, a very serious problem, Minister, exists for almost five hundred farmers in the Atalo-Carnania Prefecture who have joined the same programme. A few days ago, OPEKEPE sent a document to the county, which we had tabled. We gave it to Mr. Apostle. With this document, it was actually blackmailing farmers to sign a responsible declaration - which I have here along with the document - that they accept these compensation reduced and that they would not have the right to raise objections. Of course, here we have to say - and we want you to reply, Mr Minister - that this is mainly due to the inequality of pastures, a problem which is extremely intense in the Atolo-Karanya Prefecture and in general in our country. Farmers throughout the country have paid enough money and have been unpaid for this programme since 2012, for three, four years. They have given money for the certification, the certificate they receive from private companies - let me not mention what they are - of what they are from. It's a serious problem. Mr. Apostle has promised that these days the compensation will be paid. And these livestock farmers are at a dead end, because they didn't get any compensation. So you finally answer the question we have put for a long time and do not get an answer: Will farmers not receive compensation, especially in 2013 and 2014, because of the grassland action plan, receive money? There's anguish in this world. And it's released on a number of sites, you make statements every day, that there will be fat money in respect of compensation for the previous years. I close, Minister, saying that the situation in farmers is dramatic. They are, in fact, in front of a violent breakthrough. They are experiencing the anti-agricultural policy of the European Union, which you too are zealously implementing. They live under the tax payroll, which exists with HNPH in the mantle, rural housing, the fields, they live with the carpets of the OGA, with the carpets of ELGA, the carpets of the OGA. It is, in fact, to the limits of impoverishment. On these issues, we are not hallucinating that there may be solutions, but the farmers themselves must take the case into their hands.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Bolaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for the timely question. The crucial and main theme of your question, the targeted subject of your question - not the general context you put - I sign it. You're right. In fact, farmers - and particularly organic livestock farmers - have been receiving subsidies, while they have been legally integrated into the programme since 2012. It is a huge issue, against which the Services have their own responsibilities and have their own excuses. I am not here to justify them or judge them. You are right in describing the problem. In other words, the farmers are right. To think in this Chamber that there were young children who entered a programme, with vision, with the desire to serve the productive sector of the country with organic livestock and suddenly found themselves in front of an issue which was not their fault, or because there was the question of the eligibility of pastures and it was necessary to adjust the electronic background and to determine exactly where these pastures would be, or because there was a question of the definition of pastures, who are pastures. Another is the conception of pastures in Central Europe, with winters and cattle, but the concept of daily practice in Greece, local practices in the mountains of Pindos, in the mountains of Crete, in the mountains of Macedonia, elsewhere grazing the goat, not knowing it in Central Europe, and therefore another definition. All these issues have created a problem. This problem, without its fault, has been dealt with by farmers. And on this, as I have said, I agree and sign up. There has also been a second issue, which has to do with the licenses of the stack facilities. It is a law which, in practice, started ambitiously, created issues for farmers. Many of them have not been able to obtain subsidies because they do not have the permissions of the stack facilities. What's the development we've had in the last few days? First of all, the issue of grazing land has been resolved with the bill that was passed in the past month. So the matter with the grazing land and the document you're referring to is solved by the bill. There is provision, there is provision, the question is resolved and the definition of grazing land. The second issue, which relates to the permits of the stack facilities, was also provided for in this draft law and was extended for one year. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, I shall continue the answer to my dentistry. Just a word to say, to have one unity in the word. The Legislation on statistical permits requires serious intervention. A commission has been set up to see the law. I will only say: While the Services estimate that we need about a hundred and twenty thousand stack permits, fewer than a thousand have been licensed. There is a huge issue, therefore, with the stability of the law and there is an urgent need for intervention. The Ministry has set up a committee to see this law and to resolve this issue. As far as payment is concerned, I will reply to the second part of the question, as time is up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Moraite, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u70	Minister, things are not the way you described them. First of all, you know this because I do not know if you are aware: The law passed on to grazing land will have effect from 2019. So it does not respond to the serious problems that farmers are currently facing. Of course, the law and Article 12 have been passed, and indeed it provides for an extension of licences not for one year, but for three years. The first law, Law 4056, provided for up to 12-9-2016, while the new law provides for an extension beyond that. But that is not what we ask. We ask specifically about people who do not have permission today. Because farmers who do not have a statistic permit - and you must know that very well, Mr Minister, from your region - are about 80% of the poor farmers. It's not a small percentage. And as I mentioned, it's not his fault, it's the forests. I will give you one example, Minister: the Forest of Amphisias in Itolo-Carnania has only two forest lawmakers to look at an vast area and they really cannot, because the difficulty is objective. We expect you to respond specifically to the anguish of these people, namely whether they will be paid for in the organic farming programme. And actually join according to the law that you voted on. We in the House, of course, said clearly that you are looking forward not to solving the problem, but to having a hostage in this world. We are asking, now, for staging licences to be issued, without-noticing! - No burden, particularly of poor farmers - and we can see who the poor farmers are - because, as I said, it is a shameful amount. There are authorisations for environmental effects, on which farmers are not really able to respond, especially in these areas. Minister, you have cut yourself - I must say this now - the subsidies on basic aid. There are thousands of poor farmers who took the sum of EUR 250 - unless you consider them rich - and throw them out. You have cut subsidies to young farmers and caught them in programmes. They were dumped by Mr. Sallas, the Piraeus Bank, and today they are in despair. You have also cut subsidies to new entrants. Generally, we have aalum, Minister. Tree crops went to pastures. Because at some point you said that the problem of pastures has been solved, the question that exists is as follows: Those who did not receive subsidies - I bring it back and I do not know why there is no reply - in 2014 and 2013 because of the action plan, will the compensation be paid tomorrow or today, as Mr Apostle says? And don't tell us vaguely that compensation for the previous years will be paid. Minister, there's something else more serious. You commit the farmers' accounts from 50 euros. There are today subsidies that have entered the accounts of farmers and you are fully bound up with them. I have examples. Someone who takes eight thousand, owed eight thousand and didn't give him a euro. Is it not, Minister, that world? You said you agreed on one point, but you do not agree on the other. All right, it is clear that you do not agree, because we believe that this policy that you are following, and you, which is the direction of the European Union, are aimed at picking up production in a few hands. And already in some areas of livestock farming there is this direction, that is to say, concentration, production is growing into fewer and fewer hands. We say clearly that poor medium-sized farmers today have sufficient experience and can draw conclusions, see clearly which way they should choose. And the road is one, it's a one-way street. It is the conflict, the rupture, the overthrowing of this policy and the development of agriculture, not what you say 'the comparative advantages', but through a central planning, to give development in a way that will be of benefit to the poor and poor farmers, consumers and, more generally, to our country. In conclusion, I would like a concrete answer for Itolo-Carnania, because in your prototype you did not give a clear answer. Here there is a commitment of accounts, there are responsible statements. We're really talking about authoritarianism. Will this OPECE document be withdrawn and the responsible statements that force farmers to sign? Answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u71	The Minister has the floor, Mr. Bolaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, I would like to remind you that your question, despite what you say about the European Union, concerns control of government work, not only of the current government - you are referring to 2012, 2013, 2014 - that European directives have not been properly implemented and that the European funds for farmers have not been distributed properly, so that we can reach agreement in the political context. That's the check you're doing. That is the first issue. It's a second question. I told you about Iato-Carnania very clearly. What the Minister said about the payments of the balancing and biological resources is true. Now at the Ministry, OPEKEPE is making announcements and briefings. Payments, as the Minister announced, will be made before Christmas these days. It's very important, and you know it very well that I've never been made a promise. I do so because I believe that the mandated bodies of the state - in this case OPEKEPE and next to the ELGA - are obliged to apply the regulation and the law and run to the service of farmers and farmers. So because these issues have been resolved, as I told you with the bill, which is why OPEKEPE from today until Christmas's eve will settle the outstandings of 2012, 2013 and 2014 and will also pay off the balancing and biological ones. For any dossier that comes from the DRLs and is mature, there will be payment. That is where we will be and you will see it implemented. The Minister made the announcement - I confirm, I repeat - and the confirmation will be made in the right-holders' bank registers these days. I want you to allow me to tell you that they are at least similar to yours. That's why we're here, in this fight, in this effort. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Minister. Before discussing the last question, I am aware that the first question under number 299/14-12-2015, a topical question for the second Piraeus II cycle of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Irene (Nina) Cassimatis to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, regarding the concession of the use of part of the women's detention shop in the Municipality of Korydallos, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. Furthermore, the second question under number 301/14-12-2015 of the new Republic MP Kilkis, Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas, concerning the problem of the health structures of Kilkis, due to the migration flows, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The third, with number 295/11-12-2015, is a topical question by MP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of National Defence, on the supply of missiles from abroad for the Greek Army of Dryras, is not discussed due to the Minister's impediment and deleted. The fifth, under No. 303/14-12-2015, topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning redundancies of workers at the "Galactos Xanthis S.A. Industry". “CONTRIBUTION” shall not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister and deleted. The seventh question under number 297/14-12-2015, topical question by Attiki Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the imposition of a luxury tax on luxuries for luxurious cars, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made a decision in the Conference of Presidents that it should be addressed to the President of the Parliament, as the ministers are obliged to answer Members' questions at the National Representation. It is one of the essential tasks, under the Constitution, of the Minister. I do not know whether these Ministers have mentioned the reason for the blockade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u74	He's in the committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u75	Yes, but that's exactly what they have to tell the President of Parliament. That's what I said. Here it is referred to as ‘obstraint of impediment’. However, it is good to mention the reason for the blockade, and that is why matters are being created. The TV broadcasts the meeting, the students are watching and everyone can draw their conclusions. That is why I refer to it. We move on to the latter, the second with No 927/9-11-2015, question by the MP Iraklio of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Homeland and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the invitation to register undetermined previous SAEP competitions. The honourable Member's question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Vernardakis. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to say on the issue that is completely negative about the presence of the ministers that it has not been understood by the ministers that parliamentary control is their main obligation. They consider it parable - not all of us, to be fair - some who are systematically absent. For example, those who have announced that some are being prevented from attending Parliament at this time, without having any coma, because the committee is also an activity, but it can be regulated. The Committee, as well as the Members of Parliament, can be placed in the committee during the three-day period without saying anything about the debate on the topical and urgent questions. This is a key issue. For this reason, I have devoted one minute of my speech to this. Only 45% of the current questions can be answered. This cannot be continued. I would ask you, at the next Conference of Presidents, to put it on your side as Vice-President. In addition, you have put it from this point of view in an earlier procedure. This is a real fact. I would like to raise a second point before entering the question. Because I was in charge of the Ministry of Labour and during my first term of office and during my second term of health and safety at work, and because you know today that Parliament has left without water, there is damage and has left without water, there is a phenomenon evolving in the light pipeline: at first, it was a bucket. Now there are five buckets. If you look carefully up, Mr President, you will see these buckets. I guess until a certain weight lifts the lighting, the roof glass. That's a matter. Watch out for it, because we may also have victims of this situation. I put a question to the Minister on the basis of the legislative initiative taken by the Government and started to record the unappointed data, but they were in the tables of successors of the AACC. The legislation refers to 1 January 2009 and then starts in '97. And that's right, because there were injustices and people who weren't appointed by the '97 SAP competition. But then he makes a sauce and goes on January 1, 2009. So the question, Minister, is: why don't you do the recording for the entire period from '97 onwards? Why is that void? And I don't mean why you don't do it administratively. I mean, lawfully. Do you intend to make this legislation - if necessary - an intervention, a proposal, so that we can all be recorded and served in this way by the purpose of the regulation, which is to quickly provide some services with a lack of staff from people who have already been judged by CSCE tenders? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Bernardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, thank you for the question. According to the administrative documents, the official and briefings I have and according to the information from the AACC, we have active competitions, i.e. tenders that have resulted in a nominee, who, because of the establishment of recruitment, have never been made since 2009. This process, first of all, we are obliged at some point to do so, of course, on the basis of recruitment and time policy, to implement it, namely to take up these people, in accordance with the needs and conditions of the tender with which they have been registered as appointed. The exception made before 2009 has to do with the undetermined successors of 1997, which is where we have the peculiarity that we have a decision of the 2004 Council of State, which many of them, due to the problem of the competitive process at that time, has made them a nominee, but has never been fully corrected by this problem. So I asked for a record, to see how many of them are still active, interested, were not appointed by other competitions or were not of another type. This census has given about a thousand people, and we must, of course, be able to reclassify them into lists of nominees, obviously also with our needs - I mean the public - so that this gap can be covered. The remaining active competitions do not exist when updating the AACC. In other words, they do not exist, they have closed, in the sense that the appointing tables have been closed, those who have been appointed and, in this sense, in the ADP and the administration, there is no population currently in trouble. If there's anything like that, I mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u79	The Ministry of Education 2002.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u80	I can't hear. When? 2002? If that exists, it's obvious. If there is an open competition for the AACC, the commitment is that at some point it should be closed. In other words, it is a constitutional and legal obligation, anyway. These people must be absorbed, even slowly. But before 1997 we don't have that kind of procedure. In other words, we do not have an open competition or a judicial decision, which is the difference with the successors of 1997-1998, which we have a duty, that is to say, a decision of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u82	A similar problem to the 1997 competition for those successful in 1994 in the first competition, which has been completed years ago, has been solved and has to be solved for those successful in 1997, as you rightly promote. I now say that from 1997 to 2009, which the recruitments froze, there are some successful ones who were not appointed. We should also include them in this regulation, in the sense that they are recorded, if any, who are, how many, just as you did for 1997. I have specific cases of two or three - I do not have the opportunity to make an overall recording - of the 2002 Ministry of Education competition. It's the contest with the FEK 262/12-8-2002. They were reasons for bureaucracy. In particular, one did not have the time when the Army's dismissal had to be appointed, as planned. He had to hand it over at the time, present it when he was appointed. Then another arrangement was made. I have another case where, while working in the private sector, there was another bureaucratic problem and it did not work. But that's not just the 2002 competition. There are others, and I would like to know whether you intend to bring in, because I think it wants legislation. The same job, which you have been doing since 2009, to do it since 1997, so that the whole time will close. This is an arrangement that would solve some issues. I have now seen that in the bill you discussed in committee and which will come to Parliament on Monday, it has the final arrangement for the successors of 1997. A paragraph could therefore also be added to the listing of the others. I intend - and that is why I wanted you to come today - to table an amendment to the plenary when the bill comes - if it comes - to resolve these issues and be able to be appointed to positions that the Ministry or the Ministries need, people who have already been judged by the AACC successfully. And, if we agree, it would be nice for you to bring her in, not us to do it. Otherwise we should table the amendment, but consider the majority, whether it is accepted. It is an issue that will conclude a - in the right direction - an initiative that you have taken so that there are no wrongdoers in the wrongdoers who will be justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u83	You have the floor again, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u84	I have no objection at first. What I do not know at the moment is just how many of these loose ends exist. If there are indeed human outstandings that have established the right to nomination by competitions, what I can do is to ask the AACC to make a record. I don't know if it's a matter of legislation. For the 1997 competition it was necessary to do this, because it was a very big competition at that time, with tens of thousands of people, and there was a problem involving five to six thousand people until recently. Now with the census, we have been given the opportunity to have a cleansing - these thousand people - but it is still a state's obligation to solve a social problem. If there are any, we will have to move forward - I will ask the AACC - in a record and with the same procedure as for the 1997 nominees to proceed with the others. Since 2009, there has been no question. Obviously, the competitions are active and are subject to the right to appoint. What I can do from today is ask the AACC for the full information, what data we have from the intermediate competitions and for which Ministries, which competitions are, what kind of competitions they were. And if these competitions are open, obviously I have no objection to going ahead with all those who base the right to this arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u85	Thank you. The first question by MP I, New Democracy, Mr Theodoras Bakoyannis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the smuggling of fuels, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister and deleted. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-17-S1-commons.u86	With the agreement of the House at 11.27 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, December 18, 2015, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate; and (b) the debate on Question No 5/517-11-2015, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
