ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasia Gara. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcement of Thursday, 7 January 2016, which reads as follows: A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 327/15-12-2015 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros Triantafylides to the Minister of Finance regarding the planning of the state for the fight against illegal gambling and the online betting of 5.5 billion. In order to contribute revenues to the Treasury. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios State, Minister for Economic Affairs, Development and Tourism, regarding the direct payment of wage costs by 12% of industrial, craft and mining enterprises in border regions. 3. The question by number 317/14-12-2015 of the Greek People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Panagiotarou, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the "delegation of our name to the Skopje". 4. The Question No 330/15-12-2015 by the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problem of East Attica. 5. The Question No 310/14-12-2015 by the Member of Parliament, Mr Jason Fotella, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the use of European youth unemployment programmes. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 328/15-12-2015 by MP Trikala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Christos Simorelis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the search for unpaid benefits paid by insurance institutions. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 318/14-12-2015 of the Greek People's Association MP Aetolokarnania - Golden Dawn Mr. Konstantinos Barbarousi to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the problems of the people of Lefkada affected by the earthquake in November 2015. 3. The Question No 331/15-12-2015 by MP II Piraeus of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the problems arising from the drastic reduction of the basic support for farmers. The topical questions which will be answered by the same Minister or State Secretary will be discussed after each other. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a few communications to make to this House. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Cohabitation agreement, exercise of rights, criminal and other provisions’. Furthermore, the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economics, Development and Tourism have now submitted a draft law: ‘Integration into national legislation: Directive 2011/99/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011 on the European Protection Order, Council Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA of 26 February 2009 on the organisation and content of the exchange of information from the criminal register between Member States’ and Council Decision 2009/316/JHA of 6 April 2009 on the establishment of the European System of Information on Criminal Register (ECRIS) pursuant to Article 11 of Framework Decision 2009/315/JHA’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "A Co-existence agreement, exercise of rights, criminal and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided, at its meeting of 17-12-2015, to discuss the draft law at a meeting. It is proposed in this House that the draft law be debated in a single way. It is clear that the rapporteurs and the special speakers will be allowed time, so that they can be placed at the outset and on the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u4	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u5	It has been notified to the Bureau that the New Democracy and the Deputy Secretary General of the Parliamentary Group, Mr Anastasiades, appoints the Members of Parliament, Mr Brutsis, as Parliamentary Representative. Likewise, from the Golden Dawn, MP Mr. Ioannis Horseman is appointed as the special speaker, Mr. Christos Pappas. From the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR is designated as a special speaker of the parliamentary group, the MP, Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou. The Communist Party of Greece is designated as a special speaker, Mr Yiannis Giokas. The Potami is designated as the Member, Mr. Harris Theocharis, as a Parliamentary Representative and as a special speaker, Mr. Josson Fotilis. Independent Greeks are designated as the rapporteur, Mr Vassilis Kokalis. Mr George Karras and Mr Marios Georgios Karras are appointed as the special speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u6	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u7	You have the floor, Mr. Gioka.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u8	Several amendments have been tabled to this draft law, most of them on the side of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. It is the government's duty to say now which of them it thinks or intends to accept. In other words, we do not get to the point - something that has also been done in other bills - rather than the government say 'I accept this amendment or the other amendment'. So now I think the Minister - because these amendments have been tabled - must say which of them he thinks or intends to accept, including the amendment tabled by the JRC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. I think the request is reasonable when it comes to the answer by the Minister. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. A number of amendments have been tabled, it is true, and there is certainly some time for processing. But by 14.00 a.m. we will be ready to give you the amendments and the legislative improvements that are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u11	Not at all but one, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u12	As soon as possible. By 14:00, I think we'll be done, Mr. Gioka.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u13	I think that as soon as possible, Minister, we can have your answers so that the parties can be placed accordingly. Mrs. Catrivanu has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u14	Tolerant for a little longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u15	Tolerant, as far as we can, for everyone, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u16	Because there are many articles, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u17	Yeah. Show an understanding too, we'll show ourselves and we'll move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u18	Day of understanding today!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u19	Day of understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important day today, because the process of recognizing the State of Palestine in the House this morning has been carried out and we are now discussing the coexistence agreement. It's a nice day! I'll start with what a friend of mine told me two days ago. He tells me: “This is an incredible feeling. Suddenly I feel visible, I feel that I exist, that I recognize and begin to understand myself, despite all the struggles and activism that I have done over the years, right now in a positive way through this law that goes down and not through the stereotypes of homophobics, the negatives." Another gay activist says: "Too many years of activists and my mother now realised, with the pact, that I am okay, that I am not the problem, that the problem is the homophobia of others and not me." So the agreement that comes today, the enlarged cohabitation pact for heterosexual and homogeneous couples, is fundamental and self-evident. We are pleased, however, that this elementary and self-evident has had a great deal of struggle to reach a great deal of struggle from the LGBTK community, even though it was our obligation and the condemnation we had from the European Court of Justice, so it was our express obligation. It is, therefore, a great day not only for the rights of the LGBTK community today, but it is a great day for rights and equality in our country. The pact has a cut. It's just two things. The first is to remove discrimination against our fellow citizens because of sexual orientation. And the second is that it upgrades the cohabitation pact for homogeneous and heterogeneous couples, since for the first time family ties are recognised between partners, as are the spouses, with all rights, insurance, pensions, labour, tax, hereditary etc. It is an important step, as I said, in the direction of equality. But I think we will be judged if we do not stop there if we move on to the establishment of the political marriage, which is the position of SYRIZA from its founding conference, and to the legal recognition of sex for trans people. Over the past period in Parliament, when the Pact was being discussed, there has been a very interesting debate. I would like to raise a few points and say a few things that I consider to be self-evident. But from the debate that has taken place it is not self-evident. I want to start with the obvious. Homosexuality is not an option. There are many times when the phrase 'if they choose' has been heard. It's not an option, it's sexual orientation, it's part of the individual's nature and an expression of his sexuality. He doesn't choose it. No one chooses to live in difficult life. Also, it's no offense. The international scientific community has taken a decision on this for a long time. There's nothing pathological. It's a healthy expression of sexual orientation. And I say this because a number of comments have been heard in the Chamber, which were homophobic. The argument was also made: 'We do not care what each individual does in private. What each one does in his bed." We don't care what everyone does in bed. This can be arranged by itself if it follows the mortar or anything. We are interested in the state and the rights that the state ensures toward citizens, because the coexistence agreement concerns public life and public space. In other words, it is about whether they are citizens in the second category or citizens in a level playing field. I'm also going to say something else, because we're only talking about sexual orientation. Let us think that recognizing the relationship between two people also involves love. So the pact recognises the possibility for these two people to live in a love relationship and what else this relationship involves - I do not want to idealize it - and this can be expressed in the public space. With the cohabitation pact, which is a matter of public life, a partner can insure his other partner especially during times of crisis and especially during periods of unemployment. She can get permission together in the summer. He can serve in the same town. He can, when he's in intensive, get in and ask what his health is like and learn information. He may, when he dies, remain at home their own common home and not be forced to leave for other relatives to take it. It can inherit the possessions and goods that they co-created together. He can actually envision his life with another in a context of family life. This has been said to me by many young children, that "for us are you saying that I will be able to see myself in the future with a companion?" There's been a lot of talk about respect for tradition. I want to quote what Judge Richard Posner said, who is a federal judge in America, when he was placed against the decision of the State of Wisconsin, which said that homosexual marriages are not allowed. That's a republican judge, a lot of legal personality, who put him--I think-- Reagan. And he said: “Perhaps tradition did not allow marriage between white and black. However, this tradition has been overtaken. The ban on the marriage for homosexual couples is a tradition of hatred and cruel discrimination." The decision of the federal court, therefore, concluded: “Application of this case, it is not whether marriages between individuals of the same sex are consistent or inconsistent with the teachings of a particular religion, whether they should be encouraged or discouraged. Quite simply this case concerns freedom and equality, the two cornerstones of the rights protected by the Constitution of the United States." Greece cannot fall short of democracy. The Greek Constitution says in its articles that "the family is the foundation of the nation". But no one says that this is about the heterogeneous family only. The meaning of the family is changing. As far as heterogeneous couples are concerned, there was only the institution of religious marriage before. Then the political marriage was institutionalized. Things are changing and evolving. We are one of the last countries in Europe that we have not recognised a cohabitation agreement or a political marriage. Up to Ireland recently, with a referendum of 62% in favour of political marriage, Ireland voted for political marriage, a very, very universal country. I'll give you a parentheses. The cohabitation pact is not about childbirth, it is not about education. It's a very clear matter. That's what he wants to talk about. On the contrary, there are many places. First of all, my personal opinion is in favour of childbirth. This, however, has been put into the debate by the wicked. Many have focused in a demagogic way on the subject and they have invoked it as a horror and as a Trojan horse or as a bogeyman to effectively deny the cohabitation pact. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, because I hear you, will you make it easier for me? Thank you very much. I would therefore like to say a few words on this issue - because we are also working in education here - which are not about the bill but about the debate that has taken place before. Scientific research shows that children in gay couples are having similar problems with children in heterosexual couples. And many times parents are more conscious of what they want, because they have worked hard to get the child. The child actually needs love. You will allow me in this Parliament to present something personal. In America for three years I lived with a couple of gay, lesbian women who had a child. They were professors at the University, the Portland State University. Love, creativity and the environment, as I experienced, which the child had, are envious. In school the books had pictures of women and men with families. That's how the education system had it. There was a part of the association of parents who were gay and people were struggling either heterosexual or homosexual, for their children and the struggles were common. And I'm saying all that, 'cause that sounded like a fear in here. The bill is not about childbirth. However, the debate must not take such views and be presented as bambooes. That's what we'll talk about in the future. These are serious things and we need to look at them sober and scientifically. Now I'm coming to the articles. I think there has been a change in Article 12 that we need to see, because I think it has been changed in a way that leaves the property and insurance rights outside. We need to see how it's shaped. I think the Minister is aware and is looking at it. In Article 3, it says that a plea for annulment may be, at the request of a person, because he has a legitimate interest in a family, as well as the prosecutor for reasons of public policy. Because the term 'public order' can create misinterpretations, we need to think about another wording. For example, ‘and also the Advocate-General of his own motion, if the agreement is void for the reasons set out in the preceding Article’. The draft law is important, because other exceptional provisions beyond the cohabitation pact have been laid down. The establishment of a National Council against Racism and intolerance, which designs policies to prevent and combat racism and intolerance, and ensures the safeguarding and protection of individuals and groups targeted by race, colour, religion, genealogical achievements, ethnic or ethnic origin, sexual orientation, gender identity or disability, is established. Also, we have changed the provision for crime committed with racist features and its elements are objective. From where we had the meaning of hatred, we put external and objective elements, so that the demolition of the perpetrator's mental world does not presuppose. We consider it very important and positive to add gender characteristics to Article 81A for crime with racist characteristics. In Article 361B, aggregations and other acts are criminalised, such as blood donations, which are carried out solely on the origin, colour and religion - aggregation, blood donations only for Greeks, etc. That's criminalized. We believe that such actions have been an active manifestation and advertising of racism and we are very pleased that they are leaving. I want to get a little on the baby's arrangement. Through the bill babys will be able to serve their punishments at home and on a proposal and not to raise children in prisons. It is a demand that is widely accepted and deeply humanitarian. The penitentiary committee visited the prisons of Thebes and we saw the situation. We saw children three years old who have never been out of prison. Most of them don't even come out for pre-arrangement. Children should not be raised for the first three years of their lives. The Ministry accepted the proposal and extended the age of the children up to eight years old. It's very positive. We believe that it should extend the penalty threshold for babys up to 15 years. And that's because we asked for how many women come out with the law as it's going to go out and nobody goes out ten years in jail. In ten years of imprisonment only two gypsies come out, with no permanent residence at the moment. So the law is practically inactive. In any case, for the purpose of home-made construction, it will go through a judicial judgement, so there will be the guarantees. Another important provision is the abolition of infamous formal law. This law was too harsh for journalists and free expression of journalism and led to self-criminality. And so his abolition is very positive. It was a request from all the journalistic world, international journalistic associations and foreign rights organisations and here. It is also very positive to abolish compulsory donation to NGOs as a condition of suspension or dismissal of a prisoner. We had seen in prison people live in, because he did not have 2 and 5,000 to come out when his sentence, which he had to testify to NGOs, for example, in the "Smile of the Child". It is an incomprehensible provision that is abolished. Also, the bracelet is piloted for women and for judiciaries by this amendment of the law that is now coming and extends to the area of Thessaloniki. I want to say about Article 347 of the Criminal Code. It is a matter of inactivity rather than nature, which has a different age limit substantially for men and women. This is an outdated provision, which the National Committee on Human Rights has been proposing since 2004 and the UN Commission on Human Rights since 2005. It is a constant demand from LGBTQ organisations and all human rights organisations in our country. It actually stigmatizes a class of persons and indirectly criminalizes homosexuality. It is a remnant of other times and, therefore, for symbolic and practical reasons, it must be abolished. Minister, I once again feel the need, as I have done in my previous positions, not as rapporteur but as a Member of Parliament, to speak to you about the issue of parental care and custody of children who are already born and are in gay families. The Citizens' Counsel has tabled an amendment to the Potami and has supported it by the PASOK. Because we're talking about children present in gay families, kids stigmatized, who stay uncovered, who if one parent dies in a couple, the biological parent, the child goes to a third relative or to an institution, we don't want to see this happen. We know your sensitivity and we know you'll bring it too soon. But since time frames may be large, we would ask you to bring it today.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u20	Is it changing by law what you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u21	Yeah, it's changing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u22	What a hypocrisy that is!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u23	I would like to say that for me and for us, it is an important debate that will take place today and we would like to welcome the initial basic consensus that existed as a climate in the committees that were beyond parties, because, in fact, it concerns a large number of our fellow citizens, your families, rights and equality, it concerns democracy and the modernisation of Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u24	Thank you to Mrs Vassilis Katrivanou, rapporteur of SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational program "1974- The Restoration of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the Parliament is operating, twenty-five students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st PAEL Argyroupolis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Athanasios told us that he might be delayed a little. We will proceed to the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Rabbit. I would say to the House, because the electronic card entries are made to the first two speakers, that we can write to the end of Mr Rabbit's speech, so that the list of speakers can then be drawn up. Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u25	Thank you. Today, unlike some previous speakers, it is a day of shame. It is a day of shame, because we are coming to a point, things that are against nature and logic to vote for them and to legislate and present unnatural as natural.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u27	Not only that, but there is no right to a copy. So if we disagree today and say that what is happening is shameful and disgraceful for our country, we will be bad, racist, fascist, and I do not know what else! So we just have to agree, in accordance with the democracy you have built. First of all, we must say that the cohabitation pact has come with great interest from the government. Because that's what SYRIZA does, and that's how SYRIZA legislates this almost a year that's government. It brings the bills that they represent and which express the majority of the Members and its constituents. So we see that you brought a bill to give citizenship to anyone who comes in and wants to be called and become Greek. We see that you are giving the right to marriages of couples now, and that is considered normal in our homeland, instead of being unveiled. Having their right is understandable, but being alone in their homes and doing what they think they are. No, I repeat, they should go out and do it and we should be happy and present this for supposedly reasonable. Then there's the other one that comes and we all know it very well. This is the first step. The next step will be the adoption of children, although the government has not yet brought it, because it is afraid of reactions, because the Greek society is fortunately not Ireland, as I have heard before. Already slowly, he's coming. SYRIZA's rapporteur mentioned it and said 'we will look into it in the future', as the Minister has said. So this is the next step that will come after one, two or three years. We are in this process. We do not of course have to say that the Golden Dawn is against all of them and that this thing will fight with all our powers and resist as much as we can and have powers. And if at some point the Golden Dawn is given the possibility, the things that are currently in force, they will cease to exist. In Article 5, paragraph 2, it states that ‘In the non-personal relations of the Parties the provisions on normal marriage shall apply unless its Parties regulate them differently when the Agreement is concluded on the basis of the principles of equality and solidarity’. Of course, there is no such provision in the Civil Code. On your rush and study to pass the bill you have made an abortion. You didn't even set it right, and you don't even ask for things right. So I would like you to tell us here, what exactly you have in mind. How do you put it and how do you define it? Because this thing doesn't exist legally. What does it mean 'on the basis of the concept of solidarity'? Explain it to us! What happens when he wants to get the property, the legacy or anything from each other? And another thing that's really fun like you did the bill. Tell us about Article 6. What will the notion of free cohabitation legally mean without marriage, which you are also institutionalizing? What's that supposed to mean by law? How are you going to pull out later, if someone appears in the couple who will claim and ask - without having made a cohabitation but having free cohabitation - for any rights that they allegedly represent or actually correspond to what you institutionalize? How will that prove? And how will you tell us if this man is entitled or is not entitled to what he asks? Tell us, please, a lot. And why, for example, do you render legal superiority in cohabiting without pact between two people and do you not pay more, between five, between seven? That's nice, isn't it? Why are you demarcating them and putting them these dilemmas? Let's go to another matter even more important. In Article 13(2), you say: ‘The conditions of conclusion, the relations between the parties and the conditions and consequences of the solution of the cohabitation agreements shall be governed by the law of the place where they have been drawn up’. What do you mean by that? That if anyone comes to us who will have married a seven-year-old girl, that will be accepted in Greece? Will you accept that? Because that's what you're saying here right now. Just answer us. If a friend from the Netherlands, Germany, and I don't know where else, from another country, from Pakistan, who love their goats and their animals, what's going to happen over there, with the beasts? Are we going to accept that, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u28	Mr. President, please. We cannot hear such homophobia in the Chamber!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u29	Get out of the room, if you don't want...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u30	We just want you to answer us. We don't have a problem. Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u31	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u32	He's calling me...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u33	Mrs. Catrivanu...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u34	That can't be said. He doesn't respect the other man!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u35	Mrs. Catrivanu, please, you're making this very easy. Not now, in your speech, criticism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u36	He can't say such things. Mr President, he cannot call me and call me other people...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u37	It didn't sound. Nothing was written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u38	He heard it, and I heard it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u39	It wasn't written in the Minutes at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u40	I heard that. That's what's important.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u41	Okay. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u42	Mr President, democratically, I think I can go on. Is that right? I want to say my opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u43	Yeah. Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u44	Democratically, you respect the other man!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u45	Democrats! We are democratically here and we are telling our opinion, Mrs Catrivanu. If you don't like it, it's your problem. We'll talk about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u46	It's known I don't like it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u47	We will talk about these things and be sad. Well, tell us over there what's going to happen with these procedures. Give the answer. And to conclude, I repeat again that of course the Golden Dawn does not accept it at all. He considers this matter, which is voted on in the Greek Parliament today, incomprehensible and we will now react in any way. We will continue a little longer, however, for some articles that some do not want to discuss. Let us move on to Articles 15 to 19, where you say that there is a 'National Council against Racism' within. This National Council against Racism, the funny and the oxymobile of the case, is that it does not want to hear the word 'national'. Those who are against morality and home will, supposedly, set up a national council which decides and qualifies for what is right to hear and what is not right to hear, according to their own data. These people, then, come in order to censor those with an opposing view. They come to censor those who support the concept of homeland and the concept of honor and moral values and principles. So we have already heard the SYRIZA's rapporteur - to see how inconvenience you are and that you do not respect any human rights, you simply want to legislate in your own way - to say with joy and pride that there is a specific article that abolishes the piles - and mentioned it - only for Greeks! And he thinks that's a joy. They regard that as pride. They do, because the Golden Dawn was the only party that gave a dish to the Greeks, to our fellow people who are afflicted. So this right has no longer been granted, according to the bill you bring and you are not ashamed of voting on it. So that I, our Chief, our MPs, our Golden Dawn competitors, want to feed only Greek food, you consider it racist. But tell me something. When public Greek TV collects food and money for refugee people, isn't that racist? The Greeks aren't hungry, gentlemen? Are you somewhere else? [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] We, therefore, are against all of what you say and in proof that we will neither fear you nor do backwards, we will continue in the piles only for Greeks. And come arrest us and put us back in jail, because we will give food to the Greek people! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The first step you've taken was to cut us off the party grant, it was to cut us off our money, because you saw that we're the only party that gave people money. When you saw that it doesn't scare us and that we don't have business or great interests behind us, but we do from our pockets and we do, legislate on it and threaten us again, indirectly and directly, with new imprisonments and persecutions for that reason. So we're not going to get back to these things. For us it is pride that we force you to show all over the world how prejudiced you are and how much you hate what is called Greece and Greece. So, in Article 17, to come back...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u48	Who told you we hated, man?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u49	Why don't I have the right to share with Greeks? Why don't I have the right to share?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u50	Are you more Greek than us? You're wrong that you're more Greek than us!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u51	Sit down, man!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u52	You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u53	Why don't I have the right to share with Greeks? That's all you have to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u54	You're no more Greek than we are!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u55	Can I tell you something? I respect you're Greek!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u56	You don't have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u57	You're no more Greek than we are! Shut up! That's why you've all married foreigners!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u58	Sit down, man!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u59	I respect you're Greek. But just answer me that. Why don't I have the right to make a hunch for Greeks? Answer me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u60	My friend, you're no more Greek than we are! Your right is to say what you want, but it's not your right to say that you're more Greek than I am!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u61	No, it's not my right! You deprive me of it now by law! Did you hear what I said? I didn't say that! I said you deprive me of the right to only make a hunch for Greeks while I want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u62	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u63	The public television - I repeat again - has only been piled up for refugees and only for illegal immigrants in Irodiomeni, but that is their right to do so. So where do we end up? That collecting food and giving money for illegal immigrants is a very right and very nice energy, but collecting food and money for Greeks is a criminal offence. You criminalize it and you're chasing us. That's why I'm telling you. Understood? Because if we go to make a distribution today in the municipality, you'll take us to jail. That's why I'm telling you. So here we will compare who is and who is not Greek. And if you're such a Greek that you say - and I respect - don't vote for that now! Let's see, Greek!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u64	China has no citizenship!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u65	Mr. Amyras, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u66	I'm in Greece, I love Greece first of all! I love Greece first of all! Above all Greece and then the others, unfortunately!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u67	Mr President, is it on this matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u68	It's on the subject, Minister! He expresses his opinion. Go on, Mr. Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u69	So the Council will tell us what is and what is not racist. Of course, he doesn't mention it here anywhere. He leaves it with general and vagueness. But, since there is this given, racist crime, why is not it racistly all the crimes that have been committed at the expense of thousands of our Greek fellow citizens? Why is it not a racist crime, when they enter Greek and Greek houses, rape women, kill Greeks? Why isn't that? Because if we do that, the definition of racist crime is this. But it doesn't matter if that happens! Is that right? You don't mind! Article 29 - we said this before - concerns the criminalisation of the masses to the Greeks and that you have only done so for the Golden Dawn, because only the Golden Dawn - I repeat - was the one who gave a piece of bread and food - as far as we could - to the Greeks and we will continue to do so. And that's criminalized! Let's go to Article 37, then! You, who were against the big-timers, the big-time publishers and everything, say that this must be abolished, that is to say, I do not have the right or any Greek citizen to bring an action in a big newspaper, in a television station, if he comes out and tell me about the millions of lies. And because this has happened with the Golden Dawn MPs, we have been persecuted, we have heard signs and monsters, we have filed complaints and some of which we have already won against the grand publishers, now you come here and legislate in this way, and you say that it can me or anyone from here, or from outside, wretching us and devouring us for ten days on front page, and then you say that we are obliged to send him an outlet to ask us for an apology with five rows back - back on the last page of the newspaper. And that's what you call justice! And you're the Minister of Justice here! You say in Article 38 "disposal of confiscated and confiscated products in detention" to prisoners who are imprisoned. So the Golden Dawn makes another sentence. These confiscated and confiscated foods and products are given to the most deprived Greeks and not to prisoners in Greek prisons. Will you accept that? To conclude, I would also like to mention some other things to highlight - once again - the false democracy and sensitivity you have. The Minister who is here now and represents the Minister of Justice, who is enacting and legislating for all the perverts, for all the illegal immigrants, for all of them, is the same Minister who, on his own initiative, when we asked for the Golden Dawn - and I personally - to extract two prisoners at the Golden Dawn offices - as it is our legitimate right to become - the gentleman, who represents the Minister of Justice, rejected it, while he was not in his jurisdiction. He went out to a well-known Sunday paper and interviewed him. In fact, he left the evidence and documents of the case and leaked the names of these two penitentiaries, who are improper to their work, who work ten and eleven years in there without having caused the slightest problem and misconduct, and the reason why they were put into this process was only because they wanted to come and work on the Golden Dawn. And this man here says he's a Justice Minister. Charm a justice you've got! And the Minister must at least apologize to these people publicly. In fact, so that you know it and people can hear it - because many don't know these things and you don't hear them anywhere - the Corridal Penitentiary Officers' Association came out and made a statement at the expense of the Minister for what he did, because he targeted two hard workers. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] And ending up, let's say something else. You've been giving your exams for about a year. You started by tearing up the memorials and opposing the poverty of the Greek people and concluding that you are the worst, most submissive of all. You guys are the same systems, you guys. You're the ones who lean in the middle. You are the ones who serve the new order of things. You are the ones who completely accept globalisation, who want to abolish borders, homes, religions, everything. You are the ones who want to put the tombstone on the Greek nation. And as much as you mind the word "national", she exists and will exist. The Golden Dawn will be here and will continue to fight for the rights of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u70	We proceed to the next special speaker, Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou, a special speaker of the Democratic Partnership, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u71	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on this bill has highlighted a number of political issues that are of interest. First of all, it has highlighted the deep ideological gap between the two sides of the coexistence, as, as it turns out, beyond the communiqué obligations they are voting together, they also seem to be totally opposed to the field of rights and to the approximation of social problems. Let's get this straight. The draft law repeats the same loss of a government majority, as is the case in the adoption of the citizenship law. The Independent Greeks voted at first against the bill that the government is supposed to introduce in addition, and that is quite indicative of the balance of the present government. Recently, from the point of view of the Independent Greeks, homophobic positions were expressed with extreme conservative views as well as provocative positions, which in practice confirm the problematic government cohabitation of the two partners. Of course, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you are pretending to have heard nothing and therefore you are not commenting on statements, even of the President of the Independent Greeks, who are now addicted to coexistence and to 'estimate' - as you call it - cooperation with the partner, who is often - he has a densely treated extremist speech in particular, on social and national issues. That's your right. You are entitled to do what you do not understand or that nothing has happened with the permission you have received from Annell, and even without warning, without information. We, the Democratic Reconciliation, have ensured that we demonstrate the change of attitude of your partner in motion to lead you to the self-evident assumption that when a bill does not have the support of the government majority, its vote depends on the partnership of democratic counter-population, which is not given in any circumstances. It should be made clear today that the vote on the extension of the coexistence agreement is possible - and that is what the world must understand - because there is the positive attitude of the Democratic Integration and other parties of democratic and progressive opposition, given the vote on the bill by the Communist Party, the Golden Dawn and the ANELs, as well as the reservation from the New Democracy. You too, instead of understanding the need to defend rights, bear the bill with a number of provisions of criminal law, without seeking any consensus on it, because you have the consent of the ANE. At the same time, you are presenting at the last minute a series of amendments that are irrelevant to the bill. However, we are telling you in advance that we will not contribute to voting on provisions of photographic or resolute content. On the contrary, we will denounce and do not allow you to take advantage of our own intention of supporting rights which are a common place in European legislation. I'm just wondering, once again, about your strategic choice of coexistence with ANELs and their positions, especially in such bills. The bill, then. Seven years after the cohabitation agreement was established by New Democracy, which, however, excluded the homosexual couples, and after our country was convicted by the European Court of Human Rights of violating Articles 8 and 14 of the ECHR, Greece is moving through this bill to establish a gender-free cohabitation agreement. The PASOK, you know, has always supported the extension of the Pact to the same sex couples. It has often been attempted to promote a comprehensive bill either self-evidently or within the framework of the important - as we proposed - reforming family law, but this has usually been an impact on the conservative reflexes of the majority of the New Democracy and also on the well-known opposition tactics of SYRIZA. However, since 2008 when the Cohabitation Pact was legislated by the Government of New Democracy up to now and after the sentenced decision by the HRC, the pending extension of the Pact existed, despite the fact that most European countries had made such arrangements. Despite the long delay in the promotion of the bill by the Government, the Democratic Reconciliation considers this development to be a good thing, but it must stand up to specific articles in the bill, which deserve special attention and clarification or should be removed in certain cases. I am starting with Article 8, saying that it raises concerns about the possibility that the parties to the Pact may waive the right to legal fate. The provision of legal fate, as we have said, is binding law and does not depend on the will of the parties. I will come back to something that we have discussed in committee as well. When it refers to the draft law the term 'parents' and since it has become clear that here we are not talking about either a substitute for the political marriage but about another option, it would, in our view, be better to replace this term with the term 'father and mother'. With regard to Article 12, after the legislative improvement you have made in paragraph 1 of that article, we once again propose that the Presidential Decree be converted into a joint ministerial decision. The Minister must present a roadmap with a timetable for the implementation of the law. The Minister's provision for the issue of a presidential decree to obtain content with the cohabitation pact runs counter to the questionable disposal of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL for the rights of couples who choose this form of cohabitation, regardless of sex, again. Will they expect a presidential decree on social security rights to be issued, at the same time that the government withdraws the so-called parallel programme that would provide the whole population with complete medical and nursing care, as you said? Thus, the Government leaves unsafe the couples who opt for such a cohabitation and the protected members of those couples who have concluded or who will conclude a cohabitation agreement. No one disagrees with the immediate regulation of the matter, except the ANELs, the JRC and the Golden Dawn. Finally, we remind the relevant Minister, Mr Muzala, that he must present a corresponding roadmap for the implementation of the provisions of citizenship, which has not been done so far. Before I get into chapter 2, let me make something clear. Articles 1 to 14, you know that they are the backbone of the symbiosis pact. Since it should be clear that this particular right, which has been recognised by almost all European countries, is voted on in the Greek Parliament by the partnership of the essentials of progressive opposition, we will ask, ladies and gentlemen, that these articles be voted on by roll-call vote so that the Greek people also know who votes what and who supports what. In relation to Chapter 2, which concerns the National Council against Racism, we support the establishment of this Council against racism and intolerance. It is necessary, even at a symbolic level, to combat and prevent racist phenomena. But we want it to function in a substantial way, to create, to shape, to propose, to coordinate, to supervise policies. We therefore express our concerns about the composition and responsibilities of the Council, as proposed by the Government. In particular, we have already stressed that an instrument with nineteen - twenty members, representatives of ministries and agencies - and here I think you too have the sensitivity to operating properly - cannot plan and cannot supervise policies against racism and intolerance. In the Council's responsibilities, we do not see any correlation between the formation and the qualities of the members. Why? Because they are representatives of ministries and organisations, because often in such bodies the Ministries are represented by service actors without binding powers, without decisive powers. We therefore believe that the creation is suffering, in the sense that it is weak state, and this is not cured by cooperation with institutions or by the setting up of sub-committees, which the Minister announced yesterday in view of the legislative improvement. Now let's go to the amendments to the Criminal Code. Here we have too much to talk about. We have already stressed the fragmentary nature and individual amendments of the bill, with regard to the necessary reform of the Criminal Code. But here too, there is an attempt to'salariation' with provisions which should normally have arisen from a more general dialogue on the reform of the Criminal Code. For example, we agree with Article 20 on the home-made creation of the child's child's sentence and is part of the protection of the rights of the child, the greater right of the child, and the amendments promoted by Articles 24 and 25. However, we have basic objections to Articles 27 and 28 concerning the crime of traffic blocking. The individual reduction in sentences is questioned. Article 292 of the Criminal Code was amended in 2008 and provides for a minimum of three months in prison for the offence of traffic blocking. What is the need for further regulation? We stressed that it is problematic and inappropriate to predict specific personal reasons...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, if you are kind, a little quiet to listen to the speaker. Mr. Papatheodorou, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u73	Mr President, the New Democracy is consulted out loud.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u74	The New Democracy is bothering us right now. Mr. Economou, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u75	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u76	Thank you. Mr. Papatheodorou, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u77	I therefore said that it is problematic and inappropriate to provide specific personal reasons for the person concerned in the event of an act being carried out, in order to defend a wider social interest. What is the content and how can the judge assess the wider social interest? The position of the Minister in the committee for the theoretical analysis of the vagueness of the term and the analogy of this term with other vague concepts of the Criminal Code is not enough to overcome our disagreement about the legalisation of personal grounds for dismissal for the self-invited protectors of the social interest. If you want a justification to meet the requirements of SYRIZA members who acted in Skouries or in the “I’m not paying” movement, you should seek the consent of ANELs. I imagine they'll agree with you on this. Only do you not come to this in a short time when we will have problems of wider social interest and farmers will close the road and block traffic. In Article 29 we in any case ask you to withdraw this provision. In Article 29, as we have said, the term 'despair', which does not go hand in hand with the basic principles of criminal law, proposes to be replaced by 'improvement'. [[Noise in the Chamber from the New Democracy Wing]] Mr President, I do not think that the New Democracy is now being consulted, but it is going to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u78	I'm sorry, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are kind, please. If we can consult or a little more slowly or somewhere else, it would be useful.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u79	I think that in the next positions we will also learn the New Democracy's position on the bill under discussion. So I said: I am continuing with Article 44, which creates an independent agency for coordination of prisons. In no case shall the usefulness of this office be justified, except for the use of SYRIZA politicians or party officials, in the eyes of guides, in a ministry that is eloquently counting two ministers, four Secretarys-General, at its organizational meeting with the Anti-Criminal Policy Directorate and the Association and Operation of Reservation Stores, in whose duties all the responsibilities you want to confer on this self-coordination office of prisons, which will be next to the Secretary-General. I think that you are actually creating a parallel system for the supervision, establishment and observation of prisons with political persons and a duplication of competence. With regard to the external guard of detention stores, paragraph 2 needs to be improved. It's general and vague. The delegation of similar tasks will now be carried out by a simple decision of the Head of the detention department, on a proposal and without having to expressly request, on the basis of that Article, a reasoned proposal from the Head of the External Guard Division. In our view, the proposal should be clearly justified. In this position, the Panhellenic Federation of Staff Offices is converging, which in turn asked for the certification by a health committee of the non-government or the removal of arms. We're coming to Article 46. This is a diversion, ladies and gentlemen, and I think you should think about it again. With this article and the amendment of the Code of Jurisdiction, the disciplinary authority given by this article to the President of the Ice Bay is unacceptable because it creates a conflict of competence between the one ordering the disciplinary proceedings and the one finally judged by the perpetrator. It is worth wondering, Minister, because for the first time after 1834, the first law on the organization of the courts in Maurer is changing this provision and the basic principle of law is being destroyed, according to which another one must prosecute and another one must judge. The provision you are proposing is contrary to Article 97(5)(c) of the Code of Procedure, according to which those who have ordered the disciplinary action cannot participate in the decision-making bodies. In other words, you are claiming that the President of the Ice Bay will not preside the court's plenary session when the decision to dismiss a Member of the Judiciary is being discussed when this is simply not possible. However, throughout the discussions in committee, you did not answer the basic question. What happened to the judiciary that forced you to recommend this arrangement? What is the specific event that led you to this arrangement? Because if we believe the recent statements made by the Prosecutor of the Ice Coast, Mr Koutzmani, that the methods chosen from time to time for intervention in the work of justice are, among other things, legislative interventions, threats to judges, favors to specific judicial officers, public statements on how to handle certain cases, that is why we are concerned. We're not voting for them. In addition, the President of the Association of Prosecutors, in our meeting yesterday with the President of the Democratic Association, Mr Gennimata, expressed his concerns and argued that the delegation of disciplinary authority to the President of the Ice Bay raises a major issue. Finally, in the resolution adopted by the Association of Prosecutors, inter alia, calls for the withdrawal of the provision of the draft law to be adopted, as well as that, when it extends to the Presidents of the Supreme Courts the power to exercise disciplinary powers of all the judicial officers of the following courts, this creates a major problem in the functioning of justice and ultimately creates a legislative diversion. Why? Because you want with this arrangement to control justice, by creating a range of threatened persecutions and manipulating judicial officers. This is a gross constitutional diversion affecting the rule of law and the independence of justice, which is why we ask you to withdraw it. Finally, I would like to say a few words about your order in relation to the judicial boards. We are opposed to the provisions of Article 48(5), (6) and (7). The staff councils, in fact, have not been able to build up for several months, but this should be addressed by the government's overall view of the rating and not partly by a category of officials, and indeed by arbitrary criteria. What we support is that if you want to review the ranking of officials to the degrees specified in the Staff Code, then the problem is solved by the bill, which has been tabled by the Ministry of Administrative Reform, and also by the Federation of Administrative Officers, the provision in accordance with Article 26 of the draft law of the Ministry of Administrative Reform, in which the service is recognised in such a way as to be explicitly included in the terms of appointments up to seven years. I shall conclude, Minister, with one comment. With today's bill you have lost a great opportunity. You have lost the opportunity to link your political presence to the Ministry, to expand and strengthen a right with a European dimension. On the contrary, Minister, you have chosen to link the resolution of this bill to a legislative diversion in the field of justice. The second, unfortunately, overlap with the first one, and that is what we are counting on you politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u80	Thank you, too. Mr. Athanasios, are you ready?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u81	Let Mr Giokas take the lead, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u82	Brilliant. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. In addition to the other issues relating to the cohabitation pact in the current draft law, there is the following communication tactic and policy on the part of the government. On the one hand, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government implements a barbaric, unjust, anti-popular policy and, on the other hand, attempts to hide it, cover it - in vain, we say - because it does not hide - from the bills of the so-called 'parallel programme', which not only are against the orchestra of anti-grass measures and bills, not only give the slightest relief to those people who are really crushed by this policy but, in our opinion - are opening the way and a number of dangerous measures. A characteristic case was the bill that was withdrawn three days ago. We do not know whether it will come back after holidays, as has been said, and it is not the essence there, in our view. The point is that crumbs to the most impoverished - and even old programmes - which are multiplying your policy are being baptized'social policy', while at the same time in the specific draft law - the withdrawal - contains a number of dangerous provisions, such as the most direct privatisation of health units. On the one hand, the government literally breaks what is left of social, employment, insurance, rights, and on the other hand appears hypocritically, as a defender of rights for certain social groups, but, in fact, serving other objectives. That's exactly what today's bill does. We have put it back to committee - and we ask again - the simple question: these people who say that you are defending yourself from the bill, those people who have chosen a specific orientation, who have chosen a particular form of cohabitation, are excluded from the attack you have made on working people's rights as a whole? Oh, no. The vast majority of these people are also suffering the consequences of this policy, of course everyone else. You spoke about pensions, for example, giving pension rights to those who coexist. What pension, really? The pension that is converted into a bankruptcy allowance? Where do limits and conditions go and, in fact, decent pensions become a dream for the vast majority of today's workers? Widow’s pensions, half of which have already been abolished and the other half is being abolished? You talked about medical care. It was said, in fact, as an argument in favour of the cohabitation agreement for what reason someone who is saying that someone who is living with someone else, who may be unemployed, may not be able to secure him in order for him to have medical treatment. And we said that this plausible, progressive view, hides a profound reactive concept, that someone to have medical care must be insured, while the right to public free medical care should be universal, to be given to everyone, regardless of whether someone is insured or insured, regardless of whether someone is working or unemployed, if you want, whether they are married, living with someone, or not. The right to medical care must be universal, for all, public, free and for a high level of health care, when you know very well - and we all know it - that today there are families, there are women basics, who remain in a relationship that does not cover them physically, spiritually, mentally, that may also be violent because they do not have the opportunity, cannot live alone. Or there are - the opposite - couples who make a virtual divorce, so that they can be subject to some provision of law, in relation to the highly indebted households. Second matter. There are a number of issues which have been heard in committee today by the SYRIZA rapporteur, on hereditary issues, on health issues, on health issues, on issues relating to someone else's health. In our view, a very large part of these issues can be dealt with in a private way, in the context of a private contract, in the context of a covenant and, if necessary, in the context of the necessary modifications and changes that can be made - and, if you like, they must also be made - in the Civil Code. One example, which has been heard perpetually over the last few years. The issue has been raised, taking knowledge of someone who is living with someone else for their health course. Why, not just for gay couples, but for the whole world, should it be a matter that concerns only relatives? And why cannot anyone - whom their relatives do not want to have a say on these issues - with private prosecuting or otherwise authorize his friend, his relative, to know about a number of such issues? So there are ways under today's Civil Law and change - if you want - that can be done, these issues should be dealt with above all these issues of health, pensions, care, minimum rights that anyone and anyone should have today, should be dealt with in the context of the collective struggle that our people should give. So the struggle for these issues also covers the demands these people have. So there is another objective, in our view, and the objective is not even the protection of these people. The goal through the bill is essentially the institutional recognition of a family, including on a course and the acquisition of children by gay couples. There's our disagreement. The sexual choice or the expression of sexuality that Mrs Catrivanou said is absolutely respected. It is, however, an individual, private case, while the family is a social relationship and a basic institution for protecting children. Of course, we neither condemn nor stigmatize people who choose a specific sexual orientation. We stand against those who conduct practical behaviour, insults against these people. This is heard by SYRIZA's partners in the government. We have also, over the years, voted for provisions that severely penalise such behaviour. However, we believe that homosexual sexual orientation or cohabitation in itself does not give rise to social rights which go back to the family, especially to the protection of children. Rights and obligations are born in marriage, born in the family, which basically means birth, protection, rearing of children, which are biologically the result of the relationship between men and women. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Don't be exquisite, gentlemen. You can talk about it later. In the coexistence of homosexual couples, the child objectively has a falsified, irrational perception of this biological relationship. Our position is that both the male-father and the female-parent model have its own characteristics. These stem from man’s physiology and are necessary for the child’s normal psychosomatic and social development. There is also a debate on this issue in the scientific community, without a single proposal or an opinion on the positive or negative impact on children of couples who are co-sponsored. This truth is not reversed by the fact that it has been said here that the heterosexual marriage of course and there are problems of violence, there are other phenomena - products of this exploiting society, on which the gender imbalances and the repressive behaviour of the man towards the woman and much more. You will tell me that the government, with this draft law, does not introduce the adoption of children or the acquisition of children in another way by gay couples, but the road opens. We have said so in committee, we have said so in plenary. The road opens, both legal and political. First of all, you have not hidden it politically. You say that and the reason why you are not bringing it up is because there is no familiarity on the part of the people in this regard. Then it politically opens up from the overall logic that develops. When an individual choice, an individual expression, Mrs Katrivanou, is raised, you are forbidding it to a family, objectively you open the way for both the adoption of children and the acquisition of children in another way. Besides, there is no country that established the cohabitation pact or the political marriage of couples, which then the next step would not have been the adoption of children. We remind you of this. When the Cohabitation Pact was introduced in 2008 only for heterogeneous couples from the then government of the New Democracy, the JRC and then it said that the real goal was not to conclude a more relaxed form of marriage - which could be done in, if you like, from changes to the political marriage to become less bureaucratic - but to gradually reach the marriage of couples and to adopt children. Today this is also confirmed by the fact that the cohabitation pact is widened to such an extent, which is essentially identical to that of marriage, and of course is similar to that of marriage and, of course, that it extends to homosexual couples. We also recall that the condemnation of Greece by the European Court of Justice invoked by the Government was not a violation of a positive obligation by the European Convention on Human Rights but a negative discrimination against homosexual couples, but in the context of the adoption of the cohabitation agreement. If there was no cohabitation pact for heterosexual couples, it would not be a question of condemning Greece. We say clearly that political marriage must be the only compulsory form of marriage and anyone who wants to make a religious marriage. The coexistence pact and the changes that you make today is actually becoming unnecessary. If you want to do - I say again - a less bureaucratic political marriage, in relation to its conclusion or its solution, you can do and we can discuss them, changes in the context of today's Family Law, as well as the political marriage must be compulsory for all and of course those who want it can also take the wish of the Church. But you don't touch that. On the one hand, you are bailing - and rightly so - against unacceptable positions of representatives of the Church, but on the other hand, the obligability of the political marriage, which, after all - has also been a modernisation that has taken place for decades in other states, is making 'jiz'. We do not touch that, that is, political marriage being unique and compulsory. Finally, we are voting against the provisions relating to the cohabitation pact, and of course we reject this unacceptable logic, which has been expressed by Mr Papatheodorou, in adversarily here. In an unacceptable way, Mr Papatheodorou, you have smacked political forces of whether they are in favour or against the symphony of the symphony.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u84	No way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u85	Look, you are not going to rinse off for your term as PASOK in anti-Flemish politics, voting for such a bill or putting fake separatism or forwarding lines, depending on how every political force is placed in this draft law. The JRC is voting for it on a concrete basis and on the basis of its own perception, which is neither smuggled nor summed up by any other political force. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr President, I should also like to address the other articles. The hypocrisy that exists in this part of the bill, in our view, exists in the rest. For example, the National Council against Racism and Misallody. We will vote'residents' in these provisions, because it is in fact an empty letter, when the government fully adopts the European Union's policy on refugees and immigration, which leads to mathematical accuracy and to the capture of thousands of people and to repression and actually forms the ground to feed racism, while the borders are opening up to the European Union, depending on how many times immigrants, refugees need big capital as a cheap workforce. Secondly, the draft law sets out the composition of the board and there is no representation - while everyone, for example, is represented, for example, by the police and fourteen other bodies - of the trade union movement - not that it would change the nature of this National Council in the final analysis, but even exist. This also shows your perception of racism when racism at the base and in essence has class roots and class causes. The foreign businessman, nobody treats him racistly. Everyone thinks he's welcome. Where racism develops and grows, it is against foreign workers, foreign workers, and here you are building a National Council, where the only one not represented is the trade union movement. On the contrary, you are proclaiming non-governmental organisations to official interlocutors of this national Council, when it is known what game they are playing and when the majority of these non-governmental organisations that have closed down the islands on which the refugees come are at least suspicious. Some of them - we have also denounced it as a party and through the 'RISOPASTI' - have a direct relationship with specific states, with the United Arab Emirates, with the Muslim brothers, with the Islamic State and they go by saying. The non-governmental organisations, you are proclaiming them as interlocutors of this National Council for the Fight against Racism. Thirdly, there are provisions concerning minors who commit a number of offences. We remind you of this for those who are watching. In the previous law of the Ministry of Justice of the SYRIZA, provisions had been introduced that abolished the imprisonment of minors for a number of offences. We then had not voted against them, but we had voted'residents' and pointed out that, although there should be no imprisonment for minors, there should be certain structures which in fact play the role of support, care and education for these children. Because if there are no such structures, in fact reintegration, prisons, reform - say as you wish - these people are moving to the families - who may not be such families - or who may not play that role. Then as Ministry, you said we would build such structures and refer it to a presidential decree with Article 9 at the time of the bill. I, Minister, have searched all the presidential decrees made by the SYRIZA Government so far. Unless I made a mistake, there is no presidential decree that creates such structures that these children can accept. None. So what you see as humanitarian - that is, the fact that they are not being imprisoned and of course not being imprisoned - is becoming inhuman in the final analysis, because there is absolutely nothing that can support, care and educate these children. Even in prison there was a school. In unacceptable prison, which must of course be abolished, there was a school. Now, what's there? To mercy. And not just that. Basically, deliver these people north to the criminal circuits. They are working on specific criminal circuits. In relation to the articles relating to the blockade of traffic, what we said in the committee is that the provision as it was in consultation was better. You are retreating and, in fact, with this provision you are bringing, you are opening doors and windows to continue criminalisation and criminal persecution at the expense of mobilisation. From this point of view, we are once again calling for the amendment we have tabled as a Communist Party of Greece, which, for a series of mobilisations by farmers, taxis and other sectors for which criminal prosecutions have been carried out, to remove the criminal consequences of these offences, whether they are criminal decisions or cases which are still pending. We recall that this amendment was supported by SYRIZA as an official opposition every time we tabled it. We therefore hope and believe that the government must accept it in order for these people who are suffering from trials, and condemned all these years to stop this terrible regime. Finally,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u86	If you're kind enough, finish up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u87	I shall conclude, Mr President. There's a story about the mortgages and the regulations the government makes. An amendment has been tabled, which we support. The workers in the mortgages are right to fight for what is going to happen, because government regulations do not actually guarantee them. But here there is a more general issue. It is unacceptable in our opinion that a number of services which have to do with public archives, contracts, notaries - and it is not your issue - are all governments over the years - actually talking about private or semi-private services. These must be public services with civil servants. Of course there are also a number of other issues, namely that there can be changes to the judicial officers, who are two thousand loopholes at the moment in the courts and there is no commitment to these gaps. We are voting against the bill at first and in the articles we will be voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u88	Thank you for the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece. Before we move to the next speaker, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how to operate, forty-five students and students and five educational attendants from the High School of Lejanes Ilias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We will now give the floor to the special speaker from the river, Mr Jasona Foila, for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin putting the bill on, I would like to say a few words about an issue that has really shocked me and concerns the pain of one of our fellow citizens. Mr. Spirtz, ladies and gentlemen. You're smiling, Mr. Amyras. Are you smiling with the pain of a fellowman? Shame on you! After the heroic 1821 and the epic of 1940, young heroes unfold before us, who will write their name in gold in the history of our country. Don't listen to some of the malignant and misconcentrations with an incredible slightness to say that Mr. Spirtzis has sold his values and principles for a ministerial chair. No, gentlemen, this is yellow press malignancies and I condemn them. Mr. Spirtzis sacrificed his principles and values for the good of the country. I therefore propose to the Greek Parliament that Mr Spirtzi's biography be written on the same issue and distributed to all Members of the Greek Parliament in order to set a bright example for all of us. Mr Spirtzi, I think that after me and you won a place at my side on the next show "Radio Arvyla". Now, on the bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u90	Very nice humor. We laughed!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, what we all abstained yesterday was unfortunately confirmed yesterday, namely that together with the draft law on the twenty or more amendments. And of course many of them are irrelevant with the bill. In fact, there are two provisions of the successor - and within one night of a retired - parallel programme. I shall mention just a few of them: an amendment concerns the amendment of the provisions of the Committee on the Coordination of Government Policy in the field of spatial planning and sustainable development of the Ministry of the Environment. Immediately connected to the cohabitation pact! Another concerns the continuation of the possible operation of the Epirus Metal industry and the electromechanical kymi. This is linked to the cohabitation pact! Others also concern the extension of a deadline for the correction of real estate records. That's pure for the cohabitation pact! And I'm really wondering. Does the government intend to break the record of amendments in the draft law on land for grazing, which in fact constituted a mini-legislative bill by Mr. Friends for Education? Today, a few days before Christmas, what the government has not been able to pass before the year ends, is it going through as amendments to the draft law on the cohabitation agreement? And honestly, ladies and gentlemen of the government, how long will you try our patience? For how long, since the draft law on cohabitation, out of the sixty-three articles only the fourteen are actually mentioned in the cohabitation agreement, while the remaining thirty-nine refer to criminal and procedural provisions, issues relating to the functioning of justice and prisons? Along with all this, you also have twenty amendments behind the door. We stressed the last debate of the committee, not to allow, Mr Minister, any amendments to the bill. And you completely ignored us. I can't help but wonder. Do you consider our support in this bill unconditionally? However - and this is a personal position - I say from the Step forward that this is the last time I have voted for a bill, no matter how good it is, if there is a package of provisions. We as Potami have made it clear that we will support this bill whenever it comes, mainly because we want the cohabitation pact to be incorporated into the Greek legal order and this flagrant injustice to be restored to a particular group of our fellow citizens. We were perhaps the only party that had declared so openly and emphatically support for the extension of the pact and the gay couples since the first day of its establishment. We have proved this by putting back on the committee when a matter of majority has been raised. But we cannot stand up to the political paradox resulting from the homogeneity and non-ideological cohesion of the coexistence, because there is a large number of issues to which the SYRIZA people have huge differences with the ANELs, so that you bring to a vote in the House bills to which you do not have a government majority and you depend on the support of counter-population. This is the definition of the political tradition, ladies and gentlemen, and your arrogantness, I would say, because you have been to the opposition so long with the rhetoric that when you come to power, you will do everything differently not as the old political system did. And now that you've come to power as the so-called new one, which seems more like an old one, not only do not make it any different, but you do it much worse than they did in PASOK and New Democracy, who have ruled these years in the country. You have broken every record of amendments, legislative acts and urgent bills. Ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for human rights in our country, isotope and isopolitical. The vote on the cohabitation agreement by this House is a measure, an important step towards improving our country's legislative and institutional framework on the part of respect for human rights. Personally, I feel proud and it is an honor that Potami, my party, chose me as a special speaker in a bill on social rights in Greece. Because by voting for the pact, we have the lifting of discrimination against a particular group of fellow citizens who have made a personal choice, and at the same time we have the regulation of basic issues of their everyday lives, such as taxation, insurance, hereditary and medical issues, which we all regard as self-evident. In Potami, we believe that the Greek state must treat its citizens in equal terms and create the environment to develop their personality freely. And whatever future initiatives the government takes, we will support them. But I regret, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that the government once again hesitates to disrupt its relations with its right-wing component and fearing the political costs, forgets its left-wings and, of course, what it advocated when it was opposition. Of course, I am referring to the Minister's attitude to the amendment tabled by the river for children. I am disappointed and regrettable that the Minister did not finally accept the most important amendment we have tabled, because it concerned an issue of key importance for the Potami, and in fact it is to ensure the family peace and continuity of the already born or adopted children to family couples before the cohabitation agreement was concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about a hypothetical scenario that may arise in the future. We refer to a real issue, to families with children and names, to children who are left unprotected in case they lose their biological parent. In fact, Minister, I would ask you even now to show your sensitivity as a human being and not to think politically. I invite you to protect these children. I said it again in the committee debate. If these children are lost their biological parent who is inside the pact, they will not be able to remain with the second part of the pact, who have known as their second parent throughout their lives. They will be forced to go either to a distant relative, who may have never met either at the orphanage or at an institution. Do we want this luck for these children, Minister? At the hearing of the bodies in the committee you met representatives of such families. And it is not enough to promise an undetermined future and a future review of Family Law. You know, the people tell us that whoever doesn't want to ferment is sifting ten days. This is a direct matter. It's real. It's about kids. It's about their lives and their future. Parental care and custody are not childbirth, it is something very different and we must give it to them. I now move on with the articles that are more important to us and which we feel are wrong in getting into this bill. I honestly wonder why in a bill on such an important issue of the LGBTK community, you are bringing amendments to criminal and other provisions from the back door. It is really disgraceful that you are using as a shield the human rights and equality that the state must show against its citizens, that you accompany it by provisions that effectively cancel the principle of separation of powers and constitutional legitimacy. On the second chapter, which concerns the establishment of the National Council against Racism and Mid-Language, I also told the committee that we do not disagree in principle with this initiative, but we believe that an institution with more than twenty members will not have the flexibility required to produce work. In the legislative improvements you have removed three members, you have added two more, as well as two committees. We do not believe that any substantial change has taken place. Minister, during the debate in the committee, you claimed that you would resolve the issues of gay couple children in a future, comprehensive review of family law. I do not think anyone in this Chamber disagrees in principle with this proposal. However, this preference for broader and more comprehensive reforms, I would appreciate it if you showed it in the ongoing revisions of the Criminal Code, the Code of Civil Procedure and other provisions relating to justice in general, provisions that you are writing and erasing every four or five months. Because other colleagues - I imagine - share the view that the area of criminal law needs a comprehensive approach and radical reforms, it is wrong what you are doing in this bill too. In a bill dealing with such an important issue, you are turning criminal provisions, prison and judicial matters. Of course, because of the rough and fragmentary approach that you are constantly writing, extinguishing, elasticating, stricting provisions, we are again discussing the amendment of articles that were amended a few months ago by your own law. Of course, you continue to legislate with ideological obsession, I would venture to say, in favour of specific groups with which you have privileged relations. I refer, for example, to Article 27, which deals with preventing the operation of a public establishment or of blocking of transport, the concept of defending a wider social interest. We believe that this provision is difficult to implement. The representative of the Democratic Alliance said so too. It could be considered that the one who lifts the bars or takes possession in a workplace is under the defence of a greater interest. For someone else, however, it may be a disobedience to communications and to another inability to access his working environment. We have stressed that many problems will arise from a specific provision. Unfortunately, we have not been heard. For the penitentiary of minors again write, erase provisions that you revised a few months ago. We had also expressed our concerns about the complete overlapping of the law on minors. We are now expressing it. In the fifth chapter and in the amendment of the rules on civil liability of the press, which is also known as a formal law, we pointed out our positive attitude and I was pleased to hear you yesterday, Minister, in committee, accept the second amendment we tabled as a river in the form of a legislative improvement. As far as the amendment of the articles of Criminal Procedure is concerned, the same thing I have said about the Criminal Code applies. Partial arrangements without any single design and vision. In Rule 41, we have serious objections to which I expect you to reply today, Minister - the Minister is going. Why do you exclude prison commissions from competitive procedures and direct commissions? Why do you repeal European legislation? Now for Article 42, which concerns students of prisoners and educational permits for sentences and subject-law students and students, the legislative improvement submitted is, indeed, in the right direction. What the Minister needs to ensure is, in the event of disagreement between an investigator and a prison board, that the court executing the sentences takes into account all the file on the case and not just disciplinary misconduct. Let me set an example for you. If a defendant asks for a student leave but at the same time draws notices and calls on a 'hollenged struggle' and 'Black Decembers', this will be taken into account as an inhibition factor or will only be considered during his or her confinement and within his or her confinement and not the applicant's actual intentions? Article 43 takes it as a first attempt by your Government, after ten months of failure, to do the basics for prison hospitals. And now in Article 46, which is'red cloth' for us. You know, I was particularly concerned about your stance in this bill, because an unprecedented coup in justice is being attempted, along with the post-night position of the President of the Ice Bay and the 'button' in the yearbook of judges, in order to become the eighteenth eighteen first. I said it in my previous position in committee. You will find us against this, as you will find us against every attempt by the government to salt the state, public administration, justice. Mr Minister, for the rest of the provisions I have set myself out in detail in the debate in accordance with Rule and the positions of the river are clear. I don't want to get tired of this House with details. What I want to say is that for us on the Potami, the issues of Criminal Law, the Code of Civil Procedure, judicial matters, detention stores, staff issues, needs a radical upward revision. Such fragmentary arrangements and 'blocks' are more bad than good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr. Fotella, special speaker from the river. Mr Charalambos Athanasios, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor for 15 minutes, with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I ask for your understanding, because I had to be in the Committee on Institutional Affairs and Transparency and could not be here on time. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in the process of voting on a bill that raises many issues for us, and it has really troubled us very much until we take the final decision on our position, a final decision which has still to be formulated, according to what I am about to say and since the Minister makes some improvements. Obviously, the reason is that this is not a law on the cohabitation agreement which includes other provisions, but the very opposite. In other words, these are forty-seven other provisions, and only sixteen, together with the transitional provisions, concerning the cohabitation agreement. How can you take a position, however, on the whole, when in the same bill there are provisions on the pact, on the establishment of a council against racism, on changes to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, on provisions on mortgages, on press actions, on officials, operational issues of the Ministry of Justice and on many other issues? After all, we have committed ourselves, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, not to vote again on any bills that would have unreasonable provisions when you brought the last multi-project to vote. Nevertheless, we will be positive where we need to. Therefore, we do not consider this bill as a draft law on the Cohabitation Pact, but as a multi-legislative bill. This is for us. I shall begin with the coexistence agreement first. Since the government has chosen to hide forty-seven provisions behind the provisions of the agreement, we must show and inform the House of what it is actually called upon to vote today. As regards the changes to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, we are firmly opposed, for reasons of substance, to most of the proposed provisions, but also because it is not possible for this categorical regime to continue, namely, the two main instruments of our Criminal Law to be amended every three and a few minutes, with every bill brought by the government. Today you are even thinking of abolishing an article in the Criminal Code with a parliamentary amendment. We will talk about the amendments later. However, these are not serious things, but on the contrary they are institutionally very dangerous. You have in your drawers a draft code from committees set up by the House and which, as Minister of Justice, were handed over to me at the Ministry. Don't they? Change them but bring the codes together to study them rather than what you are doing, i.e. bring five fragments, six provisions to each bill of your Ministry and then - as now, a good time - find a few months later that you are making mistakes and you need to change them again and do them again from the beginning. Minister - I refer also to Mr Paradisepoulou - you are an academic teacher and you cannot understand that this is a dangerous path you are following, a road leading to the depreciation of our basic legislation and their degradation at the level of the common legislation. We know that Article 20 on home detention for mothers with minors, which responds to a fair request, is to be met immediately. That is why we were the first to propose to the committee a more advanced and favourable wording than your original version, which was accepted in many respects. In addition to Articles 20 and Articles 23, 26, 30, 31, which correct your previous errors in the April 2015 legislation, all the other articles in the third and fourth chapters, if the necessary improvements are not made, we will vote against them. I am referring to Chapters 3 et seq., I am not yet referring to the first chapter on the Pact, which I shall say later. We will vote against them for the reasons we have mentioned, and we call on you to relinquish the circumstances and bring the codes to the House. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] For some of them, like Articles 21, 27 and 29, we have very serious legal objections, which we will be discussing later in the debate. However, there is also Article 28, which we consider to be absolutely challenging and your obsession with this is what concerns us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u94	Mr Athanasios, it is a single sitting, in principle and in articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u95	Yeah, all right. I'll tell my dentist. That's what I mean. In my dentistry, I'm going to analyze the articles. Article 28 allows the court to exempt the perpetrator from the penalty for the offences referred to in Article 292, blocking traffic, and 431, if it is convinced that the perpetrator has acted to defend a wider social interest. It is clear that behind this article, you hide an uncovered attempt to serve your well-known privileged friendly spaces. Anyone who declares a social fighter may be relieved if the court considers that he was defending a wider interest. How can the judge judge judge judge that? This article is also legally bad. It has become even worse since the change you have brought and contributed - please forgive me the expression - to the 'fucking' of social life. It is not possible, in order not to annul the criminal record of your political friends, to introduce such new provisions into our legislation. But the only unauthorized fault of the bill is not here. The same reasoning is part of the provision of Article 42, which is an absolutely photographic provision. It calls for courage, at the week when the well-known - unknown of the Exarches banned our MEP's access to the area that they consider to be a violator, after they hit him roughly, to come here today to ask us to vote for a provision amending a provision which, unanimously, all Parliament's wings voted just a year ago. And you are asking us to do so, while you are conducting legal hearings, equating the opinion of an administrative body such as the prison board - regardless of whether it chairs, ladies and gentlemen, a public prosecutor, it is still an administrative body - in the opinion of a judicial body, namely an interrogator. In other words, you are making an anti-constitutional arrangement. Why is that? We cannot accept these, even if you say that if there is disagreement, it will go to a council. But the boards only resolve disputes when there are differences between judicial bodies rather than a judicial body and an administrative body. And I conclude the trilogy of the unacceptable and provocative arrangements designed to pave the way for our consent to the bill, with Article 46(3). With this article, ladies and gentlemen, an amendment to Article 99 of the Code of Justice is being attempted. New hierarchical superiors responsible for disciplinary proceedings against judicial officers are added, i.e. the Presidents of the Supreme Courts. This is a new regulation, as from the Statute of the Court of Justice and of Judiciary Status, the Presidents of the Supreme Courts do not exercise disciplinary authority over judicial officers. This is so that the prosecution is not subsequently a judge and is responsible for matters relating to the staff of the judiciary. It does not matter whether there is Article 92 which creates an exception for the lower organs which cannot be - and I will explain why, because I have heard this argument and I can say that there may be an exception - but it has another purpose. The relevant code - ladies and gentlemen, listen to the judicial officers - provides for five persons responsible for disciplinary control and prosecution. The first is the Minister of Justice, he is the prosecutor of the Ice Bay, the Vice President of the Ice Bay, who comes out by draw as head of the Disciplinary Board, the president of the Prosecutors and the Prosecutor of the Prosecutors. Does she need us, too? This is an extremely undemocratic and centralised regulation which probably has problems with unconstitutionalism, as I said, since it is very important, because it has not been revised in the Constitution yet - the government selects the presidents of the Supreme Courts. When the government chooses - whatever government, I am not talking about the SYRIZA Government, and our own governments - it knows which of the judges will be the head of the judiciary who will exercise disciplinary control, since he knows that the one who chooses President of the Ice Bay, President of the Council of State, President of the Court of Auditors, will also be the disciplinary auditor of the judiciary. While for the Head of Inspection, Vice-Chairman of the Ice Bay, the Vice-Chairs of the Courts may be chosen by the Minister, but their position, i.e. the Presidents of the Supreme Courts, is taken by draw. I therefore reply to a question from Mr Red. In addition and functionally will create problems as there will be overlap in the exercise of disciplinary control. We wonder what the purpose of this arrangement is, apart from making the various chairmen of the Supreme Court mighty and weaken the role of the other institutions of self-government of justice? That is how all the conditions are created for the riding of judges and we cannot, of course, accept it, unless you want to be terrorized by judges. A number of promotions were made, which omitted forty-seven senior judges in the three courts in the country. So do not hope that the judges will be employed because they will stand and stand up to their circumstances and their mission. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the three provisions that we consider to be eloquently unacceptable, provocative and insulting. They are drawing up the bill and on it, if there are no amendments, after discussion, the New Democracy may also request a roll-call vote on these provisions that I have mentioned. We asked the Minister to withdraw them. However, these have remained and can only affect our general attitude to the draft law. From there on, there are the provisions of the fifth chapter on the amendment of the civil liability provisions of the press, which are also problematic, and which I shall refer to in my dentistry and, perhaps, a little later on. Now let's go to the symbiosis pact. Ladies and gentlemen - and I want this to be heard by all the Greek people - we have started the debate on the Pact, with all the goodwill to examine with understanding the provisions for extending the Pact to the same sex couples, because this is a real situation that the legislator cannot ignore. What deal, though? The Hatzigakis Act, i.e. n. Date of birth: 3917/2008. That is what the ruling of the European Court of Human Rights is asking us to do, but we have also been convinced that the question of legalising the cohabitation of homosexual couples is a real issue that the state must recognise and regulate. The draft law, which the government brought in, introduces a new pact which has no relationship with the existing loose regulation of the cohabitation of couples based on the autonomy of will. The philosophy of the cohabitation pact is changing irresponsiblely and this is being converted into an essentially political marriage in a notary, as the two institutions will now have few differences. Under Article 56, even the parties to the agreement have a family share. We consider that family institutions, as defined by Article 21 of the Constitution and Article 12 of the ECHR, must create marriage and not the cohabitation pact. You will allow me to read to you the provision of Article 12 of the ECHR, which one can tell me has not taken into account the Court of Human Rights. Listen, it is a decision that is respected, but that does not mean that all decisions are absolutely correct, because here we have an excess of competence and there is a confusion between private and family life from the combination of Articles 8 and 14 of the Pact. But listen to what 12 said, which the Greek Government had proposed at the time, and it was not accepted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, this is serious and I need some more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u96	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u97	I'm reading you from the contract: “Court of a marriage. If he completes the marriage age, the man and woman shall have the right to gather themselves into marriage and to establish a family, according to those who do so by virtue of national law.' Clear things. I shall raise three points which I have raised in committee, which have not been resolved, because we were not opposed - and I stress this - to recognise the homogeneous pact as a real situation. But that's not the issues I'm going to raise. And these issues are the issue of marriage, adoption and citizenship. To be understood, you will allow me to explain why one of these issues, the issue of marriage, is open, and the other is regulated. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if I have to, I will not have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u98	Look, as everyone had tolerance, you can go on. You'll have three more minutes, as everyone had.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, the first issue is marriage, if the provisions are adopted as they are. Because what has the bill done? He took the provisions of the heterosexual relationship pact and brought them almost peculiar to the relationship pact - that is, only Article 1 speaks of a homosexual relationship - but they regulate the heterosexual relationship, cannot regulate the homosexual relationship. So it should be different. If, therefore, the provisions are adopted in the near future, the way is open for the marriage of the couples of couples against the requirements of Article 21 of the Constitution and Article 12 of the ECHR which I have read to you. How does that turn out? I'll read the rules. Article 5(1): "In the personal relations between the parties to the agreement between them, the provisions on spouses' relations with marriages shall apply" - as applicable - "in the non-personal relations between the parties between them the provisions on relations between spouses from marriage" and so on. Describe the pact. The cohabitation pact is solved and there are verses (a) and (b). The Hatzigakis law had it too, but it had a heterosexual relationship. In the third subparagraph, it says that 'the marriage between the parties shall be solved automatically'. Watch out, not between the heterosexual parts but all parts. I come to the provision of Article 8: 'To the inherited right of the parties to the Agreement, the provisions of the Civil Code relating to spouses shall apply accordingly.' The Hatzigakis Act had an escalation. I'm talking about lawyers. When the wife and children were in first grade, the law had a fixed provision and said 1/4 the wife, 3/4 the children and so on. This has not been observed. And there, even though it was a heterosexual relationship, the Hatzigakis law has an escalation. There isn't one here. It simulates completely while that was differentiating, although we had a heterosexual relationship. Mr. Red, I think you were suggesting something too. Enter Article 1820 of the Civil Code. Articles 11 and 12. It's the same thing not to tire you. Article 12 has been amended by the Minister and said that it relates to claims. But claims between two parties or third parties are civil claims. It is a claim for compensation, financial compensation, food, etc. and claims against third parties, i.e. against the public for allowances, any pensions and other matters. Not that if the pact is made, I would be opposed - we are explaining - to have some enjoyment, since they are living - it is a reality - for pensions, insurance but it has not helped. On the contrary, you are making an argument backwards, because you were asking for another one. Let us look at the report now, let me make a mistake, and we do not have the provisions in this respect. So what does the rapporteur's report say - it is the Minister's - on pages 3 and 4? On page 3, it says that these parties acquire a status similar to that of marriage. It concerns rights related to taxation, security, benefits, etc. The same is stated on page 4. On page 8 it becomes clearer. It says - listen - 'in Article 8, the parts of the pact are treated entirely as spouses in terms of their right to inheritance alone, with the exception of the legal destiny'. But who will resign from the legal destiny? Will anyone be a fool to quit? The same shall be done in the analyses referred to in Article 12 on page 9. So, from here, ladies and gentlemen, you leave the issue of marriage open. It is not explicitly regulated, I confess, I say, I cannot say that it is coming out directly. The Minister, of course, made a statement and said 'no, no appeal or that', but the courts, as you know, do not judge themselves in accordance with the statements made by the Ministers but with the existing provisions. Now let's go to adoption. I have asked the Minister to Article 5 on personal relations between the parties, to say what provisions he wants to apply. Tell them, I say, restrictive. The Minister didn't do it. But now here's what's going on with the adoption. It's the thirteenth chapter of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u100	But, Minister, this is what you have to close, because, as you have seen, I have given you five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u101	Mr. Besiropoulos will resign. He says he'll give me his time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u102	That's not how it works. I'll explain later. You can't do that with who's quitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u103	All right, Mr. President. I'm doing a pun too. But I'm just finishing up, Listen to this, because it's very serious. Article 1545 of the Civil Code - it is the thirteenth chapter - which is not harmed, remains incomplete. 'The same person may not be adopted simultaneously by more than one person unless they are spouses'. But that's how it went with the pact. The relationship between the couples pact and the husbands is the same as the ones I analysed earlier. So what court will he say it's not applicable? And if the Greek courts say so, what will the Court of Human Rights say with the same reasoning it brought in the Valianatos case? And, of course, there are others - not just Article 1545 - that have not been tackled. Now we're going to the issue of citizenship, because there's a lot going on. I have said on several occasions that there must be a supervision of law when we legislate. Let's see, can anyone who has a homosexual relationship? The acquisition of citizenship, ladies and gentlemen, is done in too many ways. They're about thirteen. One of them's called naturalization. It used to be the wedding. He's disqualified with the Code of Nationality. Let's go to the naturalization. In naturalisation, a foreign person meeting with a national acquires citizenship if three years have passed since the conclusion of the marriage or pact, in accordance with Article 5 of the Treaty. 3284/2004, as now applies. She gets her own right, so she says, but she has a condition. That he'll be living legally in the country. Yeah, you're gonna say, but three years, what are we gonna do? We must now refer to the Immigration Code. In Article 70, the provisions on family reunification expressly state that, for humanitarian or exceptional reasons, the family may live together. In three years, therefore, she is allowed to stay in the country, is legalized, i.e. she is legally resident in the country and then gains the Greek nationality. These are issues which need to be resolved before the New Democracy takes its place at the outset. If he can, the Minister can solve it. We have therefore insisted on those issues that regulate cohabitation. For us, unfortunately, the question has not been closed, because even if the new Article 12 is accepted, there is Article 5 and what I have analysed. These three issues are a red line. It was enough for an explicit provision to resolve the issue, which was not done - and I do not know why it was not. That arrangement never came. And as much as we want to believe the Minister who tells us that the bill is not about legislation, the courts will interpret the law and not the Minister's statements. The new Republic, ladies and gentlemen - and I am telling you sincerely and everyone who was there knows - has come to the committee with a consensus. It could be confirmed by all the MPs who are here. We have reserved ourselves to take a position and said that we could qualify to vote on the bill. What were these conditions? I mentioned them a moment ago. None of them have been observed. We have said that there is a real situation and a judgment of the European Court of Justice, of which we are a member, but we are going as far as the European Court of Justice has said. Because the other issues are left to the national legislator. I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also for the excellent work he has put into it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u104	Mr. Athanasios, please, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u105	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u106	Yeah, but please hang up right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u107	Yes, Mr. President. I'm hanging up. The closure is very important, but I'm closing now. We did not want to vote against it at first, but you realise that we are waiting for a correction to see what is going to happen. Now for the rest, I'll speak in dentistry. I want to say one thing. I have seen the amendment to Rule 347. Because there's also the most important lawman here, Dimitris Papagelopoulos, I have to say: Listen to see, Mr Minister, Article 347 on ambiguousness, you want to abolish it, because you say it is being absorbed. It's wrong. Here, if you'll excuse me, we have a real draw of objects, as far as the first paragraph is concerned. It's Article 347, Mr. Papagelopoulos, please explain it. The second concerns minors, perhaps...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u108	Minister, excuse me! You've put me in a very difficult position. Please finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u109	Listen, that's basically it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u110	Yeah, excuse me. Finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u111	Well, I'm done. In the second, we may have an apparent serial, but in the first, we have a real serial. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, there are two rapporteurs left. Here is the situation: sixty-two speakers have been written. They have said that they will ask for the floor of six Ministers plus Parliamentary Representatives. So you realise that if we put an end to this and continue this story - which I found, of course, because I saw that others had spoken twenty-two minutes, twenty minutes, and I derogately left Mr Athanasios - he will not speak enough of a number of colleagues. That is why I would ask you, firstly, to keep the time available at the moment. We will consult the President on whether it will be an ending hour, which you will approve, and if that happens, the time will be reduced both by the ministers and colleagues, of course. Otherwise, the story doesn't come out if we want to finish today. So I say it so that we don't get wrong. I invite Mr. Vassiliou to the Step. Then there's Mr. Georgiadis. I will also give the floor for five minutes to Mr Papagelopoulos to explain and leave - because on the bill Mr. Paradoxopoulos will speak - an amendment he tabled. I think that is enough time to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u113	I'm going to need less time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u114	I'll put five minutes and you talk less. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the awkward opposition, the PASOK and the Potami, found an opportunity to manifest friction in the government alliance. I would remind you that the vote is conscientious. We are talking about a very important issue, which the Greek society will judge for after many years. Let's start, first, with what separates us and then with what unites us. Article 1 as Article 14. Symbol of cohabitation. How does a law be passed? Let's just say it because people see us, they hear legal serologies, designations that they probably don't know about. I'll try to answer as simple as possible. According to the explanatory statement on the Cohabitation Pact, the principles of equality and equal treatment and the judgment of the European Court of Justice impose in our country the legality of this text, the vote on this legislation. I had asked the committee several times - and as a lawyer I would like to know - whether there is a decision by a Greek court, criminal or civil court, according to which, from its operative part, there is a distinction between gay couples. Because I believe that this law will create more problems for couples than it wants to solve.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u116	Is there a decision without law, Mr. Red? Decision on what law?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u117	You'll talk later. Thank you. Principle of equality... Did you see what you were doing to me, Mr. Lappa? I'm losing my mind. It's okay. If you ask one of our fellow citizens who was and is the consistent request of the couples of couples, you will be told: 'A marriage'. So we're actually coming now. First, let's see if we agree to marriage and, second, whether this cohabitation pact is like marriage. I repeat the question, according to the humble, last point of view, the legal opinion, Minister, to see that it is a deadlock: is the cohabitation agreement treated with marriage? Yes or no? And with 'yes' and 'no' you will find yourself in a dead end. I'll explain right away. As Mr Athanasios said, the judge is here in the explanatory statement to look for, you will allow me, what the legislator wants to say, popularly: 'what the poet wants to say'. 'They have a regime similar to that of marriage'. It says so in the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u118	No marriage. He doesn't have a wedding.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u119	I will then come to the question whether I, as rapporteur, agree or disagree. Are they gaining husband's status?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u120	Pact has a partner, not a wife.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u121	I now hear 'no' from some. You're creating more legal problems for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u122	Now you say what you believe and leave what you hear underneath, because we won't end like this, Mr. Red. The Minister will only answer if he accepts the objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u123	Mr President, my position is purely rhetoric with Mr Lappa and other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u124	Yeah, but don't waste time, Mr. Red. That's why I said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u125	If they are not considered husbands, then you are legally creating many more problems. First, it was their permanent request. They became courts in Greece, started from Rhodes and Kos and arrived at the Areo Pagos and dealt with whether or not the marriage between homosexuals was present. Now you're saying it's not a marriage. About whether they're considered husbands, you don't have to have any special legal knowledge. You look at the explanatory statement and some provisions, which are presumed to be unscrupulously considered as husbands. The explanatory statement states that they have a status similar to that of the marriage. Article 12 states: ‘Other provisions concerning claims by spouses or against third parties shall apply accordingly’. The legislator therefore refers to the provisions on marriage. As far as I am concerned, we are doing well here, because this will ensure certain rights relating to work and to insurance legislation. But there is a problem because it opens not just a window but a door to adoption. I expect the opposite argument until the end of today's procedure. Article 1545 of the Civil Code expressly states that ‘two persons cannot adopt them unless they are spouses’. So choose. If you consider them to be husbands, they will be able to adopt. If you do not consider them to be husbands, then you create many more problems. The explanatory statement of the law makes specific reference to the Court of Human Rights. I personally think it's not right. Because, as the Prime Minister said in July in the European Parliament, "the brave choice of the Greek people is not a break with Europe but a choice to return to the founding principles of democracy, solidarity, mutual respect and equality". Does anyone doubt that Europe has changed? Not for the better, but for the worse. Unfortunately, the case law of the European Court of Justice has also changed. That is, the Supreme Court of France, Greece, Austria, Poland was all wrong! But there were some wise men in the European Court of Justice who judged the concept of family otherwise. Therefore, our position and my own personally as rapporteur is that we say 'no' to the cohabitation pact because we say 'yes' to the Greek Constitution. When we speak below about the detainees in the explanatory statement, Article 21 of the Constitution, which protects motherhood is mentioned. This is not the case at all. What does Article 21 say? Because the essence of the matter is, if we as parliamentarians consider that the Greek Constitution and National Law should or should not at some point prevail from this court called ESA and create obligations on us as a state. Article 21 of the Constitution states a specific clause, that the family is the foundation of the maintenance and promotion of the nation. The word "national" refers to seven articles of the Constitution. What does "promotion of the nation" mean to promote the nation? Through the family. Question. Can the nation, as defined by the Greek Constitution, be promoted by a federal adoption, yes or no, when the biggest problem today is demographic when births have fallen? We say 'no' to the cohabitation pact, because we say 'yes' to the European Union's founding declaration, which respects the nations - states, respects not only customs but also their case-law. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, like the bill on citizenship, in my personal and humble view, is one of the most critical ones - Greek history will show who is wrong or who is right - because it has to do with the continuation of the state, with the continuation of the nation. I repeat, the uncomfortable Opposition, the PASOK and the River...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u126	Very comfortable!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u127	PASOK, however, in 2013, Mr Papatheodorou, supported in court what I now say. In two years, how did you change? Rhetorical question: In two years' time, how did you change? You cannot, the party that brought about the humiliation of values, claim that we are extremist. Because we use the word "national" or the word "family" mind you so much?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u128	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u129	I explained that the bill creates many more problems in the family couples than it is trying to solve. Yes, property, civil rights to be guaranteed for homosexual couples, according to the principle of equality! And I personally believe that. We must not, however, go beyond the limits - I do not mean everyone's personals - and the Constitution and the formal law. As far as the rest of the articles are concerned, I told you, Mr Paradoxopoulos - Mr Paradoxopoulos is not present - in Criminal Law, you are very good at penality, from the most successful teachers and ministers as well. We agree on detained mothers. And it comes - and it mentions Article 20 - harmonisation of legislation with Article 21. What does Article 21 say? He says he protects motherhood. See where they stand against one part of the bill with the other?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u130	What does one have to do with the other?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u131	Article 292 is also in the right direction in terms of disrupting transport safety, because it concerns many farmers, to whom - I am sure - we must be consistent. When we announce that they will be paid on 15 December, they must be paid on 15 December and not after a month. There are also provisions concerning disciplinary boards. With the mortgages I do not know what you have done, Minister, or whether you will include an amendment concerning the staff of the mortgages. To conclude, as rapporteur for the bill in question, I declare that the first articles will not be voted on - and, of course, I am voting for the rest - for the reasons I have mentioned, that it will create many more problems for homosexual couples than it wants to solve and because it goes beyond the limits of not just constitutionality but also legality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u132	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u133	What do you want, Mr. Papatheodorou?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u134	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u135	Mr. Papatheodorou, please respect the suffocating of time. I'll give you a second or two minutes to tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u136	Mr President, I think I am entitled to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u137	Mr. Papatheodorou, don't start now. Do you want them not to speak to colleagues? Uh, good, he made a report. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u138	Thank you very much. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is an essential opportunity to verify which parties have genuine European orientation, to see what forms of political formations defending individual freedoms and individual rights in practice, not in words. We're all very good-looking. But when the time comes for the act, there are problems, that is where everyone shows their true face. The concern for freedoms and rights is not, gentlemen, exaggerated on the issues of the Ministry of Finance. For example, in spite of Mr Plakkatakis' express assurances in the media that he is positive in this bill, the New Democracy was officially reserved in principle, so that the votes of the Union of Centres, the River and the PASOK would be needed to introduce this bill into plenary. We have heard here and Mr Athanasios, who said that they are still being reserved and do not know which articles will vote positively and what negatively. For your government partners now, of course, what can we tell you? Can I offer you congratulations? Their far-right rhetoric, especially in this particular matter, is evident with their negative vote. We were deeply frustrated by the television statements of the Minister of Defence, who paralleled the symphony of the cohabitation pact in the homosexual couples with vaccination and the marriage with camels. Since when, Minister, concepts such as love and fellowship between two people have been equated and identified with brutality? We were also alarmed by the reference made by Mr Katsiki to the report by the rapporteur, Mr Katsiki, who is my friend and I have nothing personal against him - that sexual homosexuality refers to a small group of sexually outdated people. It is incomprehensible in the era of freedom, knowledge and convergence of cultures, some circles within the Greek Parliament want us to be forced by medieval darkness. This lack of knowledge at both biological and anthropological level and more widely in moral and social terms is unacceptable today. Since the time of darkness we've been through, gentlemen, and we're not going back there. On the other hand, we see representatives of the JRC expressing an extremely negative attitude towards this fundamental human right. In fact, a few days ago, the head of the Central Committee of the JRC's Central Committee on Women's Emancipation and Emancipation spoke about the party's positions on the Cohabitation Pact. It states: ‘Selecting homosexuality cannot produce social rights in terms of the Coexistence Pact’. I am tabling the Minutes and this link from the radio station. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To accept, gentlemen, that you have long stopped looking for international literature and the development of the scientific community. To accept that you have not heard of the multitude of investigations that speak of inherent characteristics and of the gene properties of homosexuality. To accept that only ignorance characterizes homosexuality as an option unfounded. Is there no access to international scientific literature? To claim on the back of 2016 that a choice cannot produce social rights is parliamentaryly acceptable? Of course, this bill also provides for the setting up of a national council against racism and intolerance. We must admit that this is a very interesting move at institutional level. However, it is highly hypocritical for the government on the one hand, to cooperate with homophobic and, on the other, to promote the removal of racism and intolerance. It is well known in the context of European practice that in countries where marriages of couples of the same sex are not allowed, some form of cohabitation has been introduced. Greece had the excellent originality, to establish the legislative environment of the cohabitation agreement, to date excluding homosexual couples. This gender-based separation of citizens means in practice that a particular legislation of the European State does not involve a percentage of our fellow citizens. Logic behind that can't exist. Metaphysical approaches cannot be placed in a piece of legislation when fundamental human rights are restricted. Let's look at it a little more specifically. The new cohabitation pact ends harder. The minimum time is three months, as far as we know. It provides an equalisation for spouses' rights and tends to equate social security, labour and tax rights. On hereditary matters, in fact, it provides for a full balance with the rights of spouses. The same rights apply to homosexual couples, and so the previous social injustice and gender segregation are restored. With regard to the fatherhood of children, however, there are no corresponding requirements, since the partner is simply not recognized as a parent of the child acquired by the other spouse and no joint childcare is provided, unless the couple has entered into a marriage. If one of the two have a biological child, based on the bill as it currently has, the other partner has absolutely no right to the child. In international reality, the right to childbirth is also provided in certain circumstances for homosexual couples, but not in all countries. The European Court of Human Rights condemned Austria, which provided for the right to childbirth of one's biological child only for heterogeneous couples in a cohabitation agreement, excluding homosexual couples. Generally speaking, in the European Union, and not only are there attempts being made to avoid racist directions, but at the same time, at the same time, at the mentality of the child and his pedagogically correct rearing. As I said, it is an issue that must be the subject of extensive dialogue. And I'm sure at the moment, we can't just walk to such a piece of legislation. In any case, the adoption process is difficult and is really mountain even for the heterosexual couples. This dialogue should take place with the assistance of the theoretical and positive scientists. There are several factors to study that relate to morals, psychology, psychiatrics, sociology, pedagogicals and many other sectors. The scientific world is divided into this issue and we cannot move towards an unfounded and opportunistic position without extensive dialogue. That is why we once again call on the Minister, Mr Friday, to confirm that he does not intend at this moment to table any amendments linking this bill with the adoption and committing that it is something that will be discussed in the future with the assistance of scientists, as I said before. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the voice of our citizens. Our status, our office in this Chamber, has given us this opportunity of public speech. That's why we're fighting and we're in here today. We first have to defend and fight for a decent and equitable treatment of all people regardless of sex, nationality or any other diversity. We first have to decide on equality and justice, respect for human and human dignity. We first should try to neutralise the negative stereotypes in which the thought and practice of many people is trapped and to accept diversity. On this point, I would like to raise a crucial issue with regard to this bill. Our country finds itself captive in very critical areas and this long before we decide to look at the question of the cohabitation agreement in the couples of homosexuals. Considering such issues requires maturity in society as a whole and scientific knowledge of the subject of human sexuality. All Greek citizens have been left to their chances or friendship to educate their children on the subject. Thus, young people - in fact - become victims of undisturbed, racist and dangerous views. Greece is one of the few European countries that has no specific policy on sexual education. At times there have been individual voices about introducing this lesson into schools, as is happening in all the advanced countries of the Western world. I directly ask the government, which is supposed to be left open to such matters, why have you not gone ahead with the introduction of the class of sexual education in schools? What's stopping you? Do you prefer the ruthless cries of extreme racist tendencies? Is that where you belong? Almost all civilized countries are integrating the class of sexual education into the curriculum. They even start from the first classes. If you see, for example, France's school manuals, students from the age of five and six, they learn the right way about all aspects of sexuality and human relations. With the appropriate language, appropriate illustrations and the proper guidance of the trained teacher, they are exempted from prejudices that could only lead to their marginalisation. We are still working here on the secondments of teachers, the rugs of the Ministry of Education's virtues and the statements of far-right and left-wing attitudes. On the substance, none of you are interested in building and living in a society of justice, equality and respect for human rights. We are entering 2016 and we deserve to say that we are a civilised and European country. Our perceptions, however, remain outdated. A sign of the maturity of a society is the attitude it holds towards diversity. Society is moving forward and in our hand is to be able to be factors in this change. Human rights, gentlemen, are not even negotiated for referendums. They are unnecessarily and must be defended by any government that respects itself. We are against this social racism and the extreme right-wing concepts which encroach on people, depriving them of the highest good that one can pursue, the most valuable democratic good, the greatest inalienable right of all people, the right of individual freedom, the right of the citizen to act and prosper, integrated into society as a whole. We are talking about an individual citizen's right to the state and sometimes against the majority of its fellow citizens. That means democracy. Respect the human value and rights derived therefrom. With this in mind, we are voting in favour of this bill and we hope that we will not stay there. We hope you will put out your hooks, expel your total perceptions, stereotypes and taboo, move into deep areas of education to create those conditions that will allow the individual to exercise his rights, to function, to develop and to express himself freely. Zan Zach Russo, after all, many years ago in his first phrase in the "Social Convention" he said: "Man was born free and yet the whole earth is chained." Free expression, ladies and gentlemen, is not just a privilege of democracy, it is itself an idiosyncrasy. We must accept the truth as it comes from our active physical reality and not from the ill structures of the minds of the most dangerous and marginal elements of public life. We only reserve some articles and some amendments to which we shall be voting at night. Hello.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u139	Mr. Georgiadis, you broke a record. Fifteen minutes exactly. Well done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u140	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u141	Well, first of all, I would like to inform the House that the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Foreign Affairs and Finance have tabled a draft law on 22-12-2015: ‘Principle of corrigendum amendments to the Edition Convention between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Canada, by exchanging private communications’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. As we have said, I give Mr Papagelopoulos the floor for three minutes to explain an amendment tabled by the Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u142	The amendment I tabled concerns the existing provisions of Article 17a(8)(a) of the Rules of Procedure. No 2523/1997 and Article 2(5)(a) of the EC Treaty. Date of birth: 4022/2011. In accordance with those provisions, the interrogator, the prosecutor of anti-corruption crimes and economic prosecutors shall have access to any information or element relevant to or useful for the performance of their tasks without being subject to restrictions on tax, banking and other confidentiality. These provisions already apply. In accordance with these provisions, therefore, the above-mentioned public prosecutors have access. In the proposed amendment and under very strict provisions, as provided for in Article 2, such access may also be made for referral and trial. In order for this to happen, and in order to protect the basic legal principles of our legal culture, there should be a reasoned judicial decision to fully justify that the damage caused by the acquisition of this material I told you before is significantly lower in the nature, importance and extent of the damage or danger caused by the act under investigation. And because we're always talking about felonies, if a felony is too serious, it's naive not to be investigated. Second condition. The proof of the truth would be, without the use of the material that I mentioned, impossible. And thirdly, the act by which this evidence was acquired does not insult human value. I think that all safeguards have been put forward, it simply extends the possibility of investigating very important cases. It is absolutely in line with the case law of the Ice Bay and it simply comes to supplement. I think that all Members of Parliament will be able to accept it. There is no problem with this amendment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u143	Well, before we join the speakers, I should like to say that, as I have already said, Mrs Aleka Papapaigega, as former Chairman of the Communist Party Parliamentary Group, and Mr Christos Papapas, as Parliamentary spokesman for the Golden Dawn Party, has requested. Mrs Papayannakis has 10 minutes of the Rules of Procedure. And you, Mr Pappa, if it is true that the Secretary of the Golden Dawn and President of your parliamentary group, Mr Michaloliaks - as we have been informed, with little doubt - will speak, you know that instead of twelve minutes you will speak six, as the Rules say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u144	Mr President, that is not what the Rules of Procedure say. After I'm ahead of the president, I'll speak properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u145	It doesn't matter. The President's time shall not be cut. It's cut.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u146	I'm ahead of you. The Rules of Procedure do not say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u147	Because he has, that's why I'm telling you. With a little tolerance. Mrs. Pepariga has the floor now. Then we enter the speakers, where every five speakers, as long as they wish to speak Parliamentary representative, I will give him the floor. But every five speakers. Mrs. Papariga, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u148	Thank you. On the occasion of the cohabitation agreement or, on the occasion of this, I do not know, there has been too much - I would say - well-known words about the individual rights and individual freedoms which, as you place them, cannot question them. But, I beg your pardon, in the same speeches of some - I do not now want to refer to names - there appeared to be a restriction. Individual freedoms relate to different forms of cohabitation. Because the forms of cohabitation are many, it's not one. And tomorrow there can be a lot more to do. And as long as things tighten, there's probably going to be a lot more. In fact, from Mr Papatheodorou, he entered the window and the theory of the two extremes even divided opposition into a democratic and non-population, depending on how the coexistence pact is voted on. I have ears and I hear, Mr. Papatheodorou. I don't know if I'm losing, but I heard you very carefully. 'Democratic Opposition'. Is there a non-democratic one? There may be. For me, there is. There is a party here in opposition that I will not say non-democratic, you know what we call it, but the theory of the two extremes has come back. And to make things clear, then. For us - in order to use the term democracy, which, if you like, has become sufficiently elastic and has become obsolete - democracy is not just within the family, it starts from the main area - if you like - the reproduction of the socio-economic system that is work. I do not see the democratic parties - as you say - and the democratic perceptions of having the same measure on individual rights in cohabitation, in the family, with individual rights at work. Why look at it, it's an individual right to strike. And you know, the conquests that the workers had in the 19th and 20th century, a large part of the conquests, are due to this higher form of struggle, the strike. And they won conquests and those who did not take part in the strike, because, of course, they will not win a conquest, a good collective agreement, a better working hours only for the striker, and the striker will also win if he belongs to the same industry. In any case, progression and democracy would result if individual rights were seen throughout life in economic and social relations. And one form of social relations is family. Secondly, I here will make it clear. Yannis Giokas analyzed the matter very thoroughly. The fact that we are discussing today the extension of the pact, in essence the extension of the family and cohabitation - because that is what we are discussing today, regardless of what the draft law says - the extension of the institution of the family, the term of the family and the cohabitation of the holosses, here has two sides to it. There is an assumption - and indeed passive assumption - that we accept that the family in Greece and in every class society and historically today - is based on economic, social and cultural coercion. There is no form of coexistence that is not based on class society in this coercion. Of course, in the context of capitalism there has been progress, and in particular younger generations are being exempted for various reasons or the cultural coercion associated with prejudice, prejudices of anachronistic and outdated perceptions is being tempered. From economic and social coercion, you're not getting rid of it. What's the problem? Heritage, insurance rights, i.e. to solve my individual right - which not only does society give me, but also if something has given me, takes it back and makes it worse - to solve it through another, as a husband or wife, as the wife of a homosexual. This is another issue, we are not talking about it right now. Let's go work this out. You'll tell me. Well, you as communists do not accept the reality - as long as there is, why is it not eternal - of class society? It is precisely because we take into account the reality, we are also intervening on the issue of laws and we are struggling with certain laws to change, overturn, rectify, improve, which are unfortunately not taking into account the nature of the family that exists, which is subject to the coercion and interest - it may not always be the form of coercive, in any case - and we have fought for the change of family law, we have fought against that unacceptable article on adultery, on names, on parity, on the equivalence of children in or out of marriage, etc. It is a series of things that we did not fight for, and other political forces fought for. But at least we were dealing with them from the point of view of a more partial correction of laws, which unfortunately cannot change the nature of the family, which, for us, is our position and may not be possible today, but which is why we are fighting for. Family means mutual love, free from all forms of coercion. Even if there is no law, this society will arrive at a moment - I believe it will be socialist towards communist - that there will be no need, father, parents, etc., but there will be no need for formal recognition. And this when there are such conditions that you don't have to solve matters through the law, who inherits who, who has insured who, who gives the roof to whom. As long as these are not solved, there will also be the law that shows that human needs are being met. But I'm going back to today. We, start with the following thing. It is not possible for any form of cohabitation to rely on sexual choice or sexual orientation - say it as you like - on sexual relationship or on the satisfaction of sexuality. Not even can it rely on reciprocity of love or love, whether they be heterogeneous or homogeneous couples. That is not the measure on social relations, even with legal certainty. The quality of relations is not taken into account. The statement is taken into account: 'We are a family'. We also take into account the fact that the family, in the conditions of class society and, possibly, any society, is formed as a breeding area for society and this particular system, together with the workplace, because - if you like - the main part of reproduction is through work. We're taking the kids into consideration. Look, when something said by Giannis Giokas that children are born from a biological relationship between a man and woman, no matter whether they come into direct contact - there is another type of reproduction - a "u" sounded underneath. I don't understand. It is another thing to say that biological elements do not bind sexual orientation, of course. These theories we hear you are not born of a man or woman, but you become and taught in universities, no, you are born with a sex, except in cases where there are other problems associated with the fetus, etc. On the other hand, it does not mean that because a woman is born, she is forced to have a woman's sexual orientation, because it is not the biological elements that determine social behaviour. Biological data determines other issues, such as who is born. I don't know how to give birth to a man. But there has been a 'oh' from a party that wants to appear very modern, from the place of the river, if I'm not mistaken. Because he said the child was born of certain biological evidence, men's and women's. This has nothing to do with the image a child gets from his young age about being a product of a man and a woman, whether they are married, whether the relationship is stable or less stable, is it opportunistic? Look, it doesn't mean that we think that heterogovernment children are the good and happy children and gay de children and they're going to become children with psychological or other problems. That's not what we mean. We at least accept that there may be many forms of cohabitation, but we do not accept being considered a family - because that is where we go - based on sexuality. You can't even force the family on the basis of mutual love.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u149	And love.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u150	Today there are - and we are talking about not in the Arab countries or in the states that are the Amish in the United States - new forms, which are also calling for legal certainty. Multigamy, for example, and polygamy families, who are a man and four or five sister wives. And what do they want? They're asking for measures to build houses that are close, because since they're a multigamy family, they have to be close, they can't be far away. There are social forms of family, there is the exchange of partners. Look, we don't go into these things. There is the exchange of partners who have their own unwritten laws that will become written tomorrow, that love life must be separated from sex. This is a matter of time for discussion in Greece as well. We don't deal with them in a spirit of morality, but you have to see them as a social relationship. Symbols cannot be defined as such. Tomorrow they may live in communal forms, live fifteen together as a communist. There is a social reality, rather than a social reality, because the reality is capitalist society - let us leave our position for it - which you need to take into account and solve and be positive in law. There are elements of social reality that need to be raised, made stronger. There are elements of social reality that you must fight with law. Look, reality is not hidden from us, how criminal, intolerable is the theory, opinions, concepts of xenophobia, racism, fascism, Nazism, homophobia. There are crimes against homosexuals here. To make stricter sentences. It's another thing to kill someone, to deprive a human life because you fought with him and another to kill someone because he's a homosexual. Or kill someone, because he's Pakistani and not because I think he insulted me or I don't know what. These racist, homophobic crimes must be punished severely and, of course, it is a matter of education and culture to respect one's personal choice of living as he wants. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Although you know, in this society that we live in, while too much ink and saliva is consumed to respect opinions, I do not think all views are respected, even when persecuted. I do not think that communist views, for example, are fully respected or treated as another point of view. The theory of the two extremes and a number of other things, the ban on the Communist Party of Ukraine, the ban on the communist parties where it was going? And of course, the dictatorship has become a great place for the communist danger. I do not hear you here in this House so sensitive for all sides of anti-communism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Look, I don't want to equate the two issues, under no circumstances. Not even one is an alibi for the other. We are clean and are very concerned about the views of Ambrosios and Kammenos. It's not the extremes. They are terrible views and may not be reproduced in the same way, but they certainly feed situations, they are dangerous, and they must be fought out. We are not saying by law to sue but they cannot say 'it is another point of view'. No, it's not a common other point of view. It produces and leads to violence, based on the sexual life of another. They're unacceptable. And I didn't hear the government come out to denounce them, if you want, to influence culturally on a number of issues. That means that when two parties unite the defence of the system, all the others are for people's consumption, who is progressive and more democratic. So let's get things straight. To be done, said Yannis Giokas, changes that will ensure individual rights - who will be urging me, who will not be urging me, to whom I can leave my fortune - and not the extent to which the master, the sixth degree of affinity to determine everything. However, this does not mean that all forms of cohabitation may be equal. It must be a criterion and the criterion in our society is that. The heterosexual couples with the target for reproduction, because it doesn't mean that de and well succeed in reproduction. From there on, other forms of cohabitation may exist, too many may exist and already exist in other countries.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u151	Madam President, I would ask you to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u152	These forms are the pretext to solve real problems that society does not solve.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u153	Mr Pappas, Parliamentary Representative from Golden Dawn, has the floor. We have been officially informed of Mr Michaloliaco, however, you will be tolerant. Let's go. After all, you're the ones who condensate them easily.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u154	Since the President speaks second...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u155	Mr Pappa, as has been officially announced, the Rules of Procedure are as I say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u156	You're very experienced.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u157	However, because I know you're confusing your concepts, I'll show you a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u158	Andrichio would be to say you were wrong. In any case, the House in a civilised democracy is legislating in favour of all citizens and the interests of society. Homosexual citizens enjoy the full rights of the Greek citizen. I would like to come to that point. What are the rights supposedly deprived of homosexuals? And where does it appear that society owes these? Does the bill fit in the interests of society? We say 'no'. You say, as I read in the explanatory statement, that you strengthen the private autonomy of homosexual couples. Who's been depriving them all these years? Where is the supposed need to protect the relationships of homosexual couples, by giving them absurd names as family relationships? If a family is Metsus and Lambros, then a family is what each defines. This is the essential issue of legal and social controversy that emerges through the present procedure. Homosexual couples can be considered a family within the framework of the Greek Constitution. But the Constitution is clear. In Article 21, it provides that a family was and is a social bond - I and the religious mystery - which first maintains and secondly promotes the continuity of the nation of the Greeks through maternity. The creation of luxurious families is promoted and has even stronger care than the state. Child rearing presupposes a natural and harmonious environment of marriage or cohabitation of a woman and a man, namely the existence of a mother and father. The marriage, then, is by definition about a woman and a man. This is not only a national law, but also a historical case-law of thousands of years. The relationship between homosexuals, therefore, or any other relationships of sexual diversity, in the context of legality - and here one wonders how this legitimacy will be identified - is good or badly accepted socially and does not need to be upgraded. Not only because this does not offer a positive signal to society, but above all because this is brutally unconstitutional. The constitutional obligation of the state with Article 21 is to support the traditional institution of marriage and to oppose any attempt to distort and impair the concepts of "marriage" and "family". No article in the Constitution promises special rights to homosexuals or some actions of the state in favour of them, such as a marriage permit, as if homosexuals were a special and special class of citizens. Freedom and equality for homosexuals are already guaranteed under the Constitution, as is the case for all Greeks in general. With this bill, you are proving the obsessions of the Left and Right and you are coming to the Greek Parliamentary Assembly today, to care how you will fund with the widow of Mitsos, while you are cutting down the funding of multitask families, as you have a reason for moral, national and constitutional debt to do. So today's issue is unconstitutional. It's a constitutional matter, it's not personal. The issue is ideological and political and not moral or anything else. Every attempt by Parliament today to interpret the Constitution in alternative forms of thought is nothing more than an anti-democratic coup, because until the Constitution is changed or amended, the coup d'état of homosexuals - therefore every consequence of these pacts - will be unconstitutional. I have heard earlier, tearing stories about the neighbourhood of MPs with homosexual couples in America or elsewhere, with children adopted, and wanting some colleagues indirectly to tell us that homosexuals are allowed to marry and cohabitation agreements in other countries. We could answer that in other countries it is considered illegal and doomed to homosexuality, as well as in other countries it accepts certain freedoms that domestic progressives here reject them with passion. For example, in the United States, the Supreme Court in its ruling allows homosexuals to be married but the same court, as an inalienable right of American citizens, allows weapons and weapons. So, ladies and gentlemen, you cannot invoke decisions by foreign states and at the same time be indifferent to other decisions that do not suit your ideas. If we accept the symphony of homosexuals, then why not accept a polygamy pact for Greeks, or not? Any attempt to regulate the issue is therefore a purely undemocratic, coup d'état amendment to the Constitution. The parliamentary majority is unauthorized to catalyse the Constitution. The unconstitutionality of the draft law on the coexistence agreement is not imposed on us for reasons of foreign finance, but imposed on us by the lobbys of the left-wing homosexuals here. In other countries on issues such as today, that is to say, homosexual marriages, there are referendums. In Greece why not? The Slovenians spoke the other day. With 63% they rejected the law that would grant these rights. Last month the Croats spoke. Why does the government and the political establishment dare not address the people? Why are you afraid of the verdict of the subordinate Greek people resisting your new-fashioned methods? Mr President, today, December 22nd, three days before the great feast of the birth of Aeolus, the bourgeoisie of Aeolus is being opened, unfortunately by the vote of the Greek MPs, for the dissolution of the Greek society. It was not enough to scan the memorials, it was not enough for you, the representatives of the constitutional arch, but you have now reached the representatives of the Left and Progress coalition, as you say, to propose by way of amendment the abolition of Article 347 of the Criminal Code on Insecurity. You say that there will be no more punishment for the parasitic nature of inactivity between males, and you will even be abolishing the seventeen-year limit. I ask, to understand the world that listens to us. If a man, a male, goes with another male under the age of seventeen, won't he be considered to be greedy anymore? Isn't it considered only nature? It's not even considered paedophilia? So you are opening a "window" today for the legitimacy of paedophilia, beyond the marriage of homosexuals. You have become accustomed - and I am ending, Mr President - to the people of you, the creators of innocence and the dream of post-political climax, you have become accustomed, in good cooperation with the media, to poison him by day. Apply the Leninist principle, the tactics of the salam, feta - feta, piece - piece. Unfortunately, the indignant but at the same time trapped Greek people in demagogy is making their cross at the moment he hears and says: 'What else will we see?' We, the nationalists of the Golden Dawn, with three and a half years of parliamentary experience, now know very well what we are seeing and what we will see. We know exactly what you're doing. All of you, consciously many and unconsciously, some - criminally and both - are working on the destruction of Greek society, the destruction of our country and others, and those who have never really loved their homeland, have never really loved their country, have never shredded in the culmination of the National Anthem, the wave of the Greek flag, the stepping up of our army in the anniversary parade, and have subjected a life to your left-wing ideas, now subordinate to the destruction of the European Union and the European Central Bank. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And the - listen to it, Mr Babi Athanasios, respect at least after all this -...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u159	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u160	Your apology accepted. For other things, you should say 'I'm sorry'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u161	Mr. Pappa, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u162	And you hypocrites and patriots, submissive of a life and worshipped in the orders and will of the transatlantic boss - and I say this especially for you, why did your Chief, Chief of Officer of Police Response, Mr. Placiotakis, first in favour of the symphony of cohabitation, finally decided on every Member of Parliament to vote against consciously - why did you not do this "consciously" on August 14, 2015 when you voted on the memorandum?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u163	Mr. Pappa, it's over. I'll cut you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u164	I shall conclude, Mr President. So we admire your spirit and style, a great so - called party that you theoretically claim authority. Golden Dawn tabled a roll-call vote to name your vote,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u165	So do we.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u166	...and to understand your voters and the Greek people what you are, that you are hypocrites. And I'm ending up saying what I...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u167	Mr. Pappa, this is the last time I've given a warning and I'm gonna mic.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u168	Last sentence. Thank you very much. Mr President, I am ending and saying this. As far as the...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u169	Yeah, but hang up. Finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u170	As regards anti-racist, a proposal I would like to say. Whatever anti-racist articles you may bring, the term of history is neither overturned by laws nor by presidential decrees. We're not afraid of your blockades, your mudbangs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u171	You're done, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u172	We have God, the people and the country on our side. We will not let any capitalists or Bolsheviks kill the soul of the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u173	Please hang up. You're done, Mr. Pappa! From this point on, nothing is written in the Minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-seven students and students and three educational attendants from the Achaea High School. Welcome to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Although, as you know, the Minister has the right to speak now, taking advantage of his innate kindness, I would like to ask him to speak five Members and then to have the floor in full time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u174	I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u175	Right away, I'll give you the floor. So the Minister will then have asked Mr Brutsis to speak as a parliamentary representative, then five other colleagues will follow, and I say it for the parliamentary representatives to state and know what is happening to us. Here, Minister, you have the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. I will take the floor to support the bill whenever you give it to me, but this morning there was talk of the amendments and the legislative improvements which I have requested and which the House had promised and the President had promised that they would have been announced by 14.00 p.m. Maybe we should pre-empt them. Otherwise, I don't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u177	Good. Mr President, we are going to do something else to be 'concentrated'. That's right, the President said it. Although what you said is right, since you have the time of your speech, we will put together five minutes to present the amendments, namely what you are accepting, which are not and why - as many as are available.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u179	So we will take it as a package because the President was right that we should have already said it. We are starting with the first five speakers who are Mr Lappas, Mrs Kerameos, Mr Koukoutsis, Mr Koutsikoukos and Mr Syntakis. Come on, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before entering the heart of the bill, I would first of all like to make a point concerning the amendments which this House really raises, and the bills, which are many times too heavy. There are a few issues that you want for failure, for reasons of omission, for reasons of misconduct, and it is essential for the social interest that there should be some legislative initiatives and solutions, and therefore the amendments that come every year or at the end of the year should respond to burning social issues. Because society is literally screaming because there are structures through which they survive - not live - hundreds of thousands of our fellow humans and these structures have a final date for the provision of goods and services 31/12. If such amendments, in my opinion, are to come, then, I would like them to come. With regard to the bill, Mr President, it is now well known that the world legal order in recent years has increasingly been built on the issue of individual rights, what is called fundamental rights. In fact, the constitutions of most countries have classified these fundamental rights so that they cannot even change them or amend them or reform their constitutions. That is why they are characterised as individual fundamental rights. Such rights are exactly what this bill deals with. We also told the committees that the bill was discussed in principle and on the articles that society was given a very great opportunity to choose, discuss, find one, not only political but also a legal and social dialogue on the subject dealt with in this bill. We are clean as a political force. For us, there is no issue of minority and majority, when we discuss fundamental individual rights issues. I also said to the committee, and now I repeat what the Constitutional Law's writings say when they analyse fundamental rights. We may have a society of hundreds of thousands and hundreds of thousands of citizens who are in favour of this, stricter viewpoint. If one opposes and this decision is based on an individual right, this right is forbidden to remain unsatisfactory. Such a fundamental and individual right is the right that emerges from the principle and specific provisions of this draft law. I would also say that as a lawmaker, Mr President, I am very pleased that a very constructive and rich dialogue has been developed both at the outset and on the articles of the bill. In fact, I told the committee in the first debate that the saying of Heraklitos 'of the different cultures of harmony', namely differences, conflicts, conflicts, conflicts and views, is also a matter of harmony, a finding which is largely or partially accepted by more and more. Because this bill is interacting with legal science, and I would say that Aristotle's saying that it also forms the basis of legal science 'always gar may have', which means that there is a second version and second reading for all things. That is the essence of the dialogue. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you that in Europe, Greece is the only country with Lithuania, which does not even provide for a cohabitation of homogeneous couples. It's the only country. We've been convicted. Because there was a lot of talk about what the European Court of Justice said, I will only read one part of it. What did he say? He said, in fact, what the Left says - and for us, it is a privileged place for discussion and for policy that the JRC does not understand, unfortunately - that individual rights are the privileged place and the act of the Left. Yes, although what Mr Giokas said is true, that is to say, the state did not breach a positive obligation, but it has created a negative discrimination against some of our Greek fellow citizens, which, in terms of effect, is exactly as important as the violation of certain constitutional provisions. It has also been said too much and I have heard many speakers say that the Greek Constitution is supposedly not anticipating what the bill says, it provides for the opposite. Let me remind them of Article 2(1), which speaks for the first time and gives rise to the value of man in constitutional provisions and a check, Article 4, on the equality of Greeks before the law in an absolute way, Article 5(1), which states that everyone can freely develop their personality and Article 9, which protects private and family life. I could mention many European and international conventions by associations and organisations that say about the same things. This has also taken account of the European Court of Justice and condemned our country for discrepancies between homogeneous couples. Mr President, the Minister said to the committees - and I think he was absolutely right - that this bill is an exercise of rights aimed at two things. In social peace and democracy, which are unfortunately at risk, when we discriminate against a portion of our citizens. We need to be clean on two things. I address the New Democracy colleagues. Finally, can you tell us how much Europe you stand? Will Greece, as a member of the European Union, finally respect, in an absolutely undeniable way, at all levels, the conventions that we have made, and indeed with increased power, with over-legislative - as we legal-power? Does the ECHR define these or does it not define them? We're talking here, just like Mr. Athanasios before he's hiding a marriage, that he's hiding childbirth, but that's not it. Just stuff. Greece was convicted of why v. 3719/08 didn't do the self-evident thing. What do you mean? He refused to extend the cohabitation pact to the family couples, which were excluded here, because he was referring only to heterosexuals. That's why simple, simple. That is why our country has been condemned. That's what this bill does to many. I am referring, Mr President, to the extreme homophobic speech that has been heard before and I will remind them of a phrase - and I shall end with it, because I do not have time to deal with the individual provisions - by Martin Luther King, who said: 'It is true that the law cannot force a man to love me' - that would probably mean a homogeneous couple - 'but it may prevent him from lynxing me'. And that's quite important. And if at one time, in the 1960s, some of our fellow citizens were lynched because of color or race, in another state, away from here, we should not allow our country to be lynched or distinguished or - if you like - even stigmatized because they have a different sexual orientation. That is the substance of the constitutional provisions, that is the substance of the ECHR, and that is the content of the decision condemning our country. And can I tell you something else? If we think that the law of 2008 was good, the country would not be condemned. So this law was not good, because it exempted and anticipated discrimination. And we say that 'lex malla lex nulla', Mrs Kerameau. 'Evil law is no law at all'. So good law is the law that is generalized for all our fellow citizens, for all our fellow humans.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u181	Mrs Keramemos has the floor from the New Democracy. Here, Mrs. Kerameau, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again the multi-legislative draft that is being discussed is a set of provisions, a set of provisions, which obviously has the pre-front of the coexistence agreement. In fact, however, it attempts to cover a number of other provisions, particularly regarding criminal law. I would remind you that something similar had also been done with the humanitarian crisis law. There were few articles about the supposedly treatment of the humanitarian crisis and then there were a number of articles that had been communicated to the mosquitoes - if I may say so - for the organization of the Ministries, for the administration of services, etc. - neither too much nor nothing to do with the humanitarian crisis. My speech today will be based on two distinct pillars. On the one hand, the amendments made to the Criminal Code, which are to some extent decriminating and, on the other hand, the extension of the cohabitation pact to homosexual couples. Firstly, the amendment of the Criminal Code. For the economy of the debate, I will only mention one example, the act of blocking transport. You will see, Minister, in Article 28, a special reason for dismissing the perpetrator, who is an act of blockage of transport, and that is why it is the defence of a major social interest. In other words, the possibility of the court to relieve the perpetrator of the penalty, when it is inhibited by traffic, or if it is convinced that the offender has acted to defend a major social interest. Yes, Minister, you made it wider. However, the question remains, how will the concept of social interest be identified? What will he say a wider social interest? What is the content finally? What are the limits of the concept of 'greater social interest'? The most responsible have told you to the Commission that this provision with its vagueness is inappropriate and I, Minister, will add that it is dangerous. I now move on to the second pillar of my speech, the extension of the cohabitation agreement for homosexual couples. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been in politics to express my opinion freely and with all honesty, without second thoughts and without regularism, and, in this case, I am proud to say that I am in favour of extending the cohabitation agreement to the couples, for two main reasons. First of all, because stable coexistence between people of the same sex is a social reality, a reality which in turn creates social needs, to which the legislator must respond without blinding himself, despite the lack of universal agreement or contempt for their acceptance. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that many gay couples are living together in a stable relationship, living under the same roof, gaining joint assets, paying tax revenue to the state, retiring, wanting to regulate practical issues relating to the present and future, just like the heterogeneous couples. The non-recognition by the state of an elementary framework which links two people of the same sex to such a stable coexistence, in my opinion, of them by exercising basic rights relating to privacy. For homonymous couples, the lack of legal recognition of their relationship, causes obstacles to their everyday lives. I am not only referring to social marginalisation, which also exists in practical matters, such as insurance, taxation, property safeguards. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I will say that the recognition of basic rights in homosexual couples does not undo nor erode the traditional institution of marriage. Under no circumstances is the institution of marriage at stake, which is extremely important. These are two distinct institutions of Family Law with a completely different historical, cultural and social background. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the regulation we are debating today, the extension of the symbiosis pact to homosexual couples, does not agree with the whole society. For many of our fellow citizens, recognition of the homogeneous relationship through the cohabitation pact is inconsistent with their values and principles. I fully understand that. But not just a social reality has been formed. It's not just a question of morality. A legal reality has also been formed. And this legal reality, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, leaves no room for not accepting it. The European Court of Human Rights condemned our country in 2013 to exclude homosexual couples from the conclusion of a cohabitation agreement. The Court held that the exception of homosexual couples from the scope of the Law. As a result of the adoption of Regulation (EC) No 3719/2008, it constitutes discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation. This sentence of the court is based on the substantial violations of Articles 8 and 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the so-called ECHR, which means that Greece is legally bound. We therefore have a judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in 2013. We have relevant provisions of the ECHR. We have relevant provisions in the Greek Constitution. We have the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which essentially prohibits differences in the working rights of couples. By the way, we also have the European Council, which adopts directives on the application of equal treatment of persons. We also have the European Parliament which, by adopting resolutions, in February 2014, reiterates the recommendation to abolish discrimination against homosexuals. Ladies and gentlemen - and I will conclude - respect for international conventions, laws, judicial decisions, our European cheques cannot be a la carte nor can it be dependent on the subjective assessment and acceptance of the majority or other social groups as large as these groups are as important as they are. In conclusion, in addition to social reality, beyond the issue of moral implications, Greece, in addition to being the rule of law which is legally required to guarantee the cohabitation of homosexual couples regardless of whether it has universal social acceptance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u183	Mr. Dimitris Koukoutsis has spoken since the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Catrivanu's story is undisturbed. I've lived a similar one myself. Once in Amsterdam, where I stayed two months, next door, she lived a homosexual family, even Greeks. It was Yannis, who worked seasonally from here and there, and Stelios, who was a beetcher, who worked permanently at a company and had an adopted child, Hassan, somewhere from Central Africa, I don't know where. And Yannis went up the stairs and said to Stelios: "My Stelios, do the boats move by themselves, or do they have air?" That's wild stories. We're not talking about each other's bed today. Here we are talking about the Greek family. We're talking about the basic survival cell of the Greek nation, which you're trying once more. A new section, says, legal, administrative and institutional, comes to indicate how deep the society and its representatives have degenerated, first, of course, the Left. These legislative initiatives, however, are neither accidental nor far from the overall attempt to retain the new order of things, which, in the name of the rightfulness of some, wants to destroy our tradition, our social fabric and even our country's biological future. Gender is the nature of each individual, a nature that the individual does not choose. The relationship between the sexes, when they do not influence factors that alter them, is simple and clear. It's what nature defines clearly. With the passage from the primitive age to the times of societies, the conditions that began to affect people's physical relations were also created. We've been in times of social addiction, people's competition. These also caused the distraction of man by his nature, a variety of derogations to his love and sexual life. Homosexuality, like other sexual choices, has developed as a result of these social relations and the phenomena of our alteration from nature - and I am talking about nature physical and mental - have blossomed epidemically in times of decline of the societies concerned. The decline in the regimes multiplys the call of morals, the unspeakable call for the oppression of human instincts, etc. And we all know that. Today, when we are living in the absolute decline, in the absolute sepsis of the system, of the regime, they do not just surface like a torrent, but the regime itself, that of the new order, is trying to force them as a political, supposedly progressive demand and to secure them legally. In other words, to guarantee the dissolution of everything, to guarantee social decline. We do not react, ladies and gentlemen, we nationalists, from moral puritanism. We're reacting purely politically. We believe these issues are private. But we refuse, in the bazaars of the new order, in its frames and in its paradigms, to legally and politically safeguard the social and psychological distortions of their system and the "personal" sexual behaviors. It's laughing at the left. Really, it's for laughing. And you know why? You Leninists, Marxists and others - have been here before - do you want me to read the opinion of Engels and Marx from their own letters, to see exactly what they are writing? Marxism's classics never adopted the anti-Scientific view of today's neo-liberal Left, namely that homosexuality is a claim and a political right. On the contrary, they characterized homosexuality as social and psychological perversion and a completely personal issue. As a perversion, Lenin also characterizes homosexuality in a published conversation with Clara Chetkin in 1920. Of course, these views were paralyzed by the left-wing "workers" and gay rights. I do not want to read what is written here about the heavenly book and Engels' plaque with 'Uranus' and 'our anus'. We don't care about that. But let us get into some other parameters. The coexistence pact of homosexuals and the legalisation of their marriages in the near future - because that will certainly also be done - is unconstitutional, in accordance with Article 21 of our Constitution. The family as the foundation of the maintenance and promotion of the nation as well as marriage are under the protection of the nation. I have one question to ask the Greek people, especially to our Church. Is this the Greek Church?...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u185	Mr. Koukoutsi, leave that alone. Go ahead on the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u186	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u187	Delete those from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u188	No, they will not be deleted, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u189	I'm erasing them. And you, when you fix them, rewrite them. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u190	We are also talking about a decision granting a residence permit to foreign comrades of Greeks to remain unconditional for three months. It's another Trojan Horse to further alter our society, our social fabric. Finally, what is modernistic is not progressive or moral. Childbirth will come in due course and the beetle Stelios will come, which I said before, and it will come true. But it will also be a reality for hospitals in the United States of America to cure mentally the children of such families. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You blame us - and there's a law now - not just a pile of Greeks. You only do for immigrants and there's no problem. That's not racism, and that's right! Besides, we're different. But please your majestic left, respect our diversity and ours once. We've got a difference too, you big-hearted left ones. Don't worry, using the ideologies of the new class...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u191	Mr. Koukoutsis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u192	Yes, sir, Mr President. You should know you're the new class dolls. We all know that you are voting and doing work at the moment in the country, which your soul actually does not want. That's for sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u193	We saw you in possession. Don't swear.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u194	Mr. Theonas, take it easy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u195	We're always listening to...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u196	We're going to have another conversation on TV, if you like, not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u197	Finish, Mr. Koukoutsi. Respect that sixty two colleagues are waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u198	As much as you are trying to make the white, black, our wisest people have placed everyone in their place. It does not change anything in our traditions, our customs, our customs and the name of our people. Fifis and Lulis were teenage, lullies were staying.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u199	Mr Ioannis Koutsoukos has the floor from the Democratic Reconciliation. Mr. Philie, I've seen you, but there's no way that you can talk to three ministers on the table all the time. There's no way. You will speak every five colleagues. This was decided unanimously. And keep what the Government Secretariat has sent us. Because I have more demands in front of me. Go ahead, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think you have any question as to what my position and the Group of the Democratic Alliance will be on the bill introduced by the GBS. I am one of the Members of this Parliament who had tabled a specific proposal - like our parliamentary representative, Thanasis Theocharopoulos, of DMAR - to ratify the cohabitation agreement for the couples of couples. But, you know, I've said it another time from this Step that we, when we ruled under certain circumstances in a certain time and a certain purpose, should not go bankrupt with the country, apart from the partners and the partners, and sometimes we find it difficult to convince the partners. On the contrary, now the government finds them much easier with the partners, it is based on the partners, but a global issue of government policy and alliances is now emerging. Two words for the substance of the Pact. Ladies and gentlemen, it would not be possible for a democratic and progressive citizen to oppose the choice of two people of the same sex to arrange for them to live together and to be surrounded in a legal document. Any opposite view would be deeply undemocratic and bizarre. After all, a voice of intolerance, hatred and division preceded me in Stepma. And it is worth remembering, ladies and gentlemen, the initiative we have taken to bring the forces of the so-called democratic arch against these voices of hatred and division together. And when we did it in 2012, you told us that we did it because we were in a position of defence and did not join these political initiatives. I believe that you are now aware of the importance of this proposal, because we will vote on the provision for the Council against hatred and intolerance. It is a continuation of our anti-racist law initiatives. But, here, ladies and gentlemen, there is a major political issue and alliances of SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence. Listen, reforms that implement a hard neoliberal framework and adapt our country can be done by anyone much more when they obey the orders of lenders. For example, never a progressive government could accept the orders - I see Mr Apostle, I have hired lenders - to do the milk of five days to bring foreign interests to our country. This is not reform.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u201	Undeserved.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u202	We prevented it, you're absolutely right. Ladies and gentlemen, reform is to make changes that go a step ahead of social equilibrium rather than accepting orders that resolve the issues of the development of capitalist forces and the formation of relations within the market. So at the moment, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this bill proves your great contradiction. You want with the progressive forces, the forces of social democracy to harmonise our country's law and rightly - because we had taken the initiative - with the European acquis and on the other hand with your partners, you are voting for authoritarian and repressive provisions. And we are dealing with a matter of order. In other words, you cannot, Mr Minister of Justice, bring us under Rule 46 the provision that the President of the Ice Bay, exercises disciplinary action and avenges. Bring us a provision at last to perform them and then to be tried, so that you may be consistent. Or should I refer to a number of other provisions of this nature? And we could think about it: we say 'take it all back and bring the cohabitation pact and we do not vote for anything else' or vote for the provisions of the cohabitation pact and vote against the rest? Because we do not want to become factors of delay and anomaly, we will vote on the provisions of the coexistence agreement, but we want to make a cry of anxiety about the authoritarian catastrophe of the government. And this, I repeat, raises a question of the government's own strategy and alliances, so that you do not give up on us every time for the principles of social democracy, but address yourself and your parliamentary group. Such things I could highlight in today's bill, but I wanted to raise it as a matter of strategy, which we will find before us. Why, ladies and gentlemen, what have we seen these days unfold and emerge? The SYRIZA wing flirt with the caramel wing on the right as a prospect of solving the problems that will arise from the government's inability to manage the crisis and the formation of a large alliance in the future. And a lot of people work for it. They work in SYRIZA as well as in the New Democracy. Mr. Papagelopoulos is here, if I'm not mistaken, who, as a genuine caramanic, exuded Mr. Tsipras' leadership skills as a genuine caramanic. He even came to like Papandreou. Oh, no, no, no, [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I could refer to a number of issues in this bill. We have tabled specific amendments, too, and Members of the SYRIZA. Mr. Minister of Sports and Culture, will you take the responsibility of telling us here why do we have to change the disciplinary we voted on in the previous House with you as a competent Minister? Why don't you take responsibility for telling us and transfer it to a SYRIZA MEP.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u203	No, that's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u204	Minister, we want you to tell us and to table an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u205	I'll say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u206	Stop transferring your responsibilities. We are following you to put them essentially with the factors you are dealing with under the table, according to the reports we are seeing, and you do not assume the responsibility to change us, but you have transferred it to a Member. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, if you want to see a progressive development, I want you to see the amendment that we tabled to take on, as Mr Tsipras, your Prime Minister and President, the responsibility of administering a company that breaks down, the Cooperative of Workers at 'BIOME', in exchange for your proposal, an extension of the auction. If you want, then, here we are, to discuss all these issues. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I must tell you that we have also tabled amendments to the possibility of carrying the mortgages that will be left behind by mergers. We have raised objections to your order for judges, because Mr. Bernardakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u207	Mr Kutsuko, when it comes to the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u208	Are we going to take the floor on the amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u209	Your parliamentary representative will speak, you don't all have to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u210	So when Mr. Vernardakis has posted a project on the development of civil servants, on the rating, do not make here "bait" for the judges, overthrowing it up to now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u211	Mr. Kutsuko, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u212	Mr President, I shall end and thank you for your tolerance. The Democratic Integration and its Members will vote on the articles, consistent with what we have done and we have so far said about the coexistence agreement, and we will vote against those provisions which, in our view, are undemocratic and authoritarian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u213	Mr President, please give me the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u214	Minister, I will give you the floor, but after the fifth speaker. Don't ruin the fifth speaker's turn, because if we do that, we won't finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u215	Mr President, just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u216	Mr. Contony, wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen, I request your unanimous support for this. We'll have to close up at 23:00. This means that after the first eight of the speakers, one of each party - because we must not blame anyone - who will speak for seven minutes, to speak for all my fellow Members, the sixty-three who have been written, the time should be reduced to five minutes. In Mr Paradoxopoulos we cannot reduce his time, because he is the accelerating minister, and he must also speak of the amendments. However, all the other ministers - and I also ask for your unanimous support - will speak for seven minutes, in the hope that the ministers and Parliamentary representatives with their time and for all Members, or almost all of them, will have spoken until 23.00, to start the roll-call vote already tabled, because there can also be another request from another party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u217	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u218	Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u219	Mr President, at the beginning of the meeting we had asked the Minister to tell us what amendments were made.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u220	Mr. Gioka, you weren't inside. The Minister asked to intervene, but in order not to spoil the release of the first speakers, I told him that I would give him some extra time, so that he could answer your reasonable remark. Don't interrupt me. Ladies and gentlemen, do you agree with the above proposals from the Bureau?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u221	The House unanimously agreed on all the proposals. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the multi-project and proposed provisions, we also have the opportunity to conclude a cohabitation agreement and to regulate provisions of the Civil Code concerning couples, heirs and homosexuals, concerning inherited, working and insurance rights, matters of nutrition and property participation. The Communist Party of Greece since 2008, when the cohabitation pact for heterosexual couples was being discussed here in Parliament, had expressed the position that there was no need for the same rules of forced law between marriage and cohabitation, in the sense that it is other than to choose one or someone to live - it is an option - and it is another thing to marriage. It's not the same. And now the JRC insists that there is no need for two legislation on the obligations and rights of spouses who are the core of parental care. In our view, political marriage must be institutionalised as the exclusive expression and mandatory form of the modern family. Let anyone who wants, of course, have the right to religious marriage. It's a matter of individual business. Ladies and gentlemen, the main aim of the bill, as mentioned in the report, is to strengthen family ties between parts of a couple of couples and at the same time private autonomy. That's in assets relationships. Incidentally, but clearly, the next step in the name of individual rights is essentially being attempted, the institutional guarantee of marriage to couples in the same way as, in particular, recognition of the right to adoption and medically assisted reproduction. We as a party disagree. A private matter cannot be institutionalised. With the same logic as any form of cohabitation, such as economic migrants, for example, or students living for economic reasons, a cohabitation agreement should also be established. The JRC does not begin with prejudice to homosexuals, puritanism or some pragmatic social morality, nor does the concept of the JRC have anything to do with the family's individual morality, nor with the cosmopolitan and opportunistic theories that seek to eliminate all class and racial segregation, nor with the "father, religion, family", supported by the fascists of the Golden Dawn. Many times in the past we have supported and voted for provisions in the House on the strict punishment of those who practice stigmatisation and discrimination against individuals in homosexual sexual orientation. For the JRC the choice of a different sexual orientation is the right of each and absolutely respected. It's just a private case. He does not persecute, stigmatize, isolate the homosexuals of one sex or another. Any verbal or physical attacks on homosexuals from chrysayites or anywhere else should be punished exemplarily. It is another thing to respect diversity and another to theorize a particular expression related to individual physiology. Not only do heterosexuality and homosexuality stand at the same depths, but, much more, it cannot be tolerated in a movement of reclaiming the right to have children from homosexual couples. Symbol choice is another thing. It's a purely private, individual case. Apart from being wrong, this logic is dangerous and scandalous, because it introduces irrationality to scientific knowledge, to everyday practice. This is irrationalism and is expressed today by various post-modern philosophical currents. Opinions on pluralism in the right to diversity, individual choice, self-determination of the body are based on theories that are being developed and promoted openly by the media and social media. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LABROYLIS]] They say the sexes aren't born, but they do. Sex is not what we are, but what we're doing. I mean, you're not born a man or a woman. In the course of your life, you decide whether to be a man or be a woman. These theories are specified in the slogan "I am free or free to try and then choose a sexual identity". They are highly unscientific, iso-scientific and reactionary theories that reject the biological classes of a woman, gender-based separation. They get to the point where they say it's a mistake to own a man in a sex. Like saying that when a child is born, we write it in the precinct as a child, and later on on on its own, he will determine his gender. In fact, at a private kindergarten in Sweden all references to female and male are avoided, in order not to distinguish children from their gender. In a municipality of Venice they do not use the term ‘father’ and ‘mother’ but the term ‘parent’. The biological origin of man is a result of the sexual relationship between a man and a woman. The child is a product of two different sexes and by a specific procedure. These theories are being promoted as progressive, while the views expressed by the JRC are considered conservative. SYRIZA takes the lead in this, as did PASOK and other forces, as was shown here today by the theory they developed for the two extremes. We consider it unacceptable that political forces should be classified as conservative and supposedly progressive, on the basis of their alleged sensitivity to the extension of the coexistence pact and not their overall attitude. That is, progressive forces are SYRIZA, New Democracy and the PASOK and the JRC are conservative. And the ANEL party that does not support it - for other reasons than the JRC - is conservative when it does not agree with the extension of the coexistence pact and progressive when it confronts SYRIZA, and when its Chief is calling for an extension of the US bases, to be actively involved in the war plans by the Americans and the European Union for the treatment of jihadists. Ladies and gentlemen, you are bringing in a bill on the pretext of homosexual social rights. It's hypocrisy. After a storm of anti-grass measures, three memorials, taxes, carpets, auctions that break popular mattresses and social groups, including gay couples, you come with a lot of courage to talk about social, labour, insurance and other rights. The JRC fights for the working people's strata without making any completely discrimination, racial, religious or sexual, and defends the democratic rights and freedoms which it raises every time the structured working people's movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u223	Mr. Synatiakis, let's finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u224	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the Communist Party of Greece for all these reasons does not agree that the family institution should be extended to pairs of the same sex, much more to guarantee adoption or medically assisted reproduction. Mostly, what is bored in our view is social protection for children. With this in mind, the introduction of the cohabitation pact for homosexual couples leads to the extension of the institution of the family and to these couples, the JRC is voting against all relevant provisions in principle. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u225	Thank you. Mr. Contonis has asked for the floor. Mr. Contony, you have the floor for a minute, please. It is time-sensitive and many speakers are too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u226	I would not have taken the floor if Mr Koutsukouko were not mentioned. Mr President, I was struck by the tone with which you put forward the problem of the amendment to you, but it is very simple to answer it. This amendment comes to regulate an issue which was persevering with the adoption of the law on 13 May 2015. At the end of June, the Football Federation was forced by UEFA's statute to establish and operate the one mentioned in the Arbitration Amendment. And therefore, it had to be regulated in the same way, in a uniform manner, and its function and function by ordinary judges and the Supreme Court in particular. This amendment therefore solves the gap that has been created and I think it is your duty and your duty, at least this amendment to vote on it. I would therefore say that, in such matters, which are pertinent to the adoption of a law, this type of criticism and this type of controversy do not need to be criticised. We solve a problem that has arisen since the law was passed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u227	Mr President, could I have the floor for a minute to answer the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u228	Why answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u229	There was a reference to Mr. Koutsuko who had been mentioned. Mr. Theocharopoulos, don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u230	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u231	Strictly a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u232	Minister, at the moment we have an amendment which has the following topic: 'Composition of arbitrators of the Greek Football Federation', the draft law on the Cohabitation Pact. Firstly, to show you that what you have been blaming for a long time is being done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u233	Others...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u234	Secondly, you supported it and Mr Koutsoukos told you why you did not bring it as a ministerial amendment and bring it through this procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u235	What's the matter with you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u236	So we have asked you if that is your position, because you do not go through with a full draft law, too, on sport, which you will be tabling, and we will have all the issues to discuss.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u237	I'll tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u238	So you've shown other times that in the review...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u239	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u240	Let me finish and you'll answer if you like, Minister. So on all the issues that we are critical of, and with the aim of, the programme of opposition, you seem to be not accepting a good deal of criticism. Because this is a well-meaning criticism of a bill we are voting on. That is why we have told you - and Mr Koutsoukos also said - that we need more seriousness on these issues and to legislate on all matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u241	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u242	Mr President, I would like a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u243	Mr. Contonis, excuse me now, don't start. We're entering a second cycle.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u244	We're not going in.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u245	There are ministers who are supposed to be pushed by the time to put themselves, to leave, parliamentary representatives who have asked for the floor, Members who are waiting for them to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u246	Mr President, for 15 seconds I would like the floor because the word 'greater seriousness' has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u247	Wait a minute. You have the floor, Mr. Contony.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u248	Fifteen seconds, I don't want a minute. So what should be done? There was a perseverance, I'm telling you again, unless you don't understand, a matter that has to be settled. So, with due seriousness, we have directly dealt with this amendment and there is no longer any gap. What are you telling us? Do you understand what you're saying? Mr. Koutsoukos raised a matter. I explained it and said it was a perseverance of the law. What was I supposed to do? Should we let this thing travel without regulation? We have set it up with the amendment and we are done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u249	Okay, Minister, I think that was a very good explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u250	What bothers you now who brought it, Mr. Theocharopoulos? What's this? Is that the programmable opposition? Now that's not what I call them!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u251	All right, Minister. Thank you. Mr. Chakalotos has the floor. Mr. Chakatte, you have the floor for five minutes, a warm plea.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u252	Seven said, let's split the difference to six minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, in a speech on the programme and the agreement with the lenders I said what Chu En Ly said about the French revolution, that it is too early to judge it. Societies often make mistakes about the importance of things that go on. Some things that we consider to be very important in some decades seem to be not so important and some issues that did not consider them to be very important that we learn that they are very important. I think the cohabitation pact is in second class. It is an important issue because it is about the oldest history humanity tells among them, among them. Two people are loved and want to be together and constantly find obstacles, barriers from families, obstacles from communities, from states, from cultures. We're learning this in pressure, in dramatic performances, in music, in novels. We're learning about our feelings, how we should behave. I imagine that many people who are going to vote against the pact at some point have seen some work on Oscar Wilde or on some other occasion and felt these feelings, that something is wrong and they should know that these feelings are not against the right word, but they give us real information on how we should behave between us, how it should be between us. It is also an important issue for another reason, because a very important principle of political liberalism is being played. Before I say, however, what this principle is all about, I would like to tell you the relationship between left and liberalism. I have heard in this Chamber and out of this many detesting criticisms about people like Pano Lamprous and the children who are on the Network, when these people actually support liberal authorities: that everyone must have a lawyer, that everyone is innocent until the opposite is proved, that even when you are convicted and imprisoned, you have rights. They are left-wing people who are forced to support these principles. And it is a pity that in this country liberals have done so little about rights. Because my partner Panos Lambrou and the others of the Network who are not in my party have saved my country and have achieved this protection of rights when liberals particularly forged indifferently. What is this basic liberal principle that we must protect? It is that the state has nothing to do in advance to stigmatize and distinguish between parts of the population. More than that: When this state has done so, take note of this - racism and discrimination. We saw this in the medieval cities in Europe when they decided that Jews could deal only with trade or with banks. The state and the city said there that they cannot have other activities and racism followed. We saw this in Northern Ireland when the state said there was something special about Protestants and they have rights and racism followed against Catholics. We also saw this in the southern states of America, where the state gave fewer rights to blacks, and then almost racism against blacks could have been legalised, to keep up to the 20th century and we still see it. So the Greek, the liberal state cannot stigmatize a sexual preference. He cannot say that a portion of our society, whether they are homosexuals or lesbians, is different. The Greek state cannot officially say that these people have different rights. Because the racism that exists against these people, which we see in everyday life, we see on TV every day, that we judge these people only in deceptive terms, is partly because their state has stigmatized and said "these are something different here and they do not have these rights". I hope that with this bill at least starting to correct this, that is, the Greek state being liberal, never stigmatise people in advance and that we, the left, can do our real work, which is to broaden rights and deepen democracy and not end the work that some others should have done a long time ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u253	Thank you to the Minister and to the consistency of time. Mr Brutsis, New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u254	Mr President, may I have the floor on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u255	Wait a minute! Before you go to Stepma, Mr Brutsi, I would suggest, if this House agrees, that Parliament's time should be reduced by two minutes. I mean, from 12 minutes to 10. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u256	Mr President, we have not made a decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u257	He is a parliamentary representative. He asked for the floor beforehand! The Minister has then asked for the floor, because it must also be put on the justified objections to the Members of the House on the amendments. He'll make his location, and then Mr. Paradise, we'll continue from the directory to close the first eight. With Mr. Amyras in particular, who lifts and hands, the first eight is completed. We continue with the next five weeks, and then the next five weeks there may be a Minister who will have the floor. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u258	I would like the floor on a point of order, Mr President, to remind you of something.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u259	What do you want, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u260	We had decided that we would conclude a circle of eight speakers, one of each party, and then that the parliamentary representatives and the ministers would intervene. This has intervened to tell you. Understand? Not every five you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u261	Four!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u262	Much may have been said since the beginning of the sitting. There's a change in the process. Parliamentary representative called for the floor. Under the Rules of Procedure, he has the right to ask for the floor. I can't forbid him. This is what I found in the previous President's schedule.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u263	All right, all right. I just keep in mind what had been decided earlier.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u264	We don't deny the word from anyone. We have simply reduced the time of the parliamentary representatives by two minutes. The turn will be as I said to you, that is, Mr Brutsis will talk, then Mr Paradopoulos and then you will be the next speaker from the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u265	Mr President, we have said every four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u266	Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u267	Ladies and gentlemen, we are really discussing a bill that is very sensitive. And it is sensitive, because today we will decide whether and how critical social issues are dealt with by the liberal concept, which Mr Tsakalotos mentioned four times. And I am pleased that it confirms that the liberal concepts are the ones that enable society to accept social rights. I would therefore like to say that, for us in the New Democracy, three points are particularly critical of our decision, but it also relates to the position of the Government and the Minister - who is present - at the end of the debate on whether and whether what we are asking for is satisfied. Firstly, we fully agree that respect for human rights is above all. Respect for human values is beyond everything. And these basic principles are principles which are integrated into the core of my party's ideology, the New Democracy. Secondly, sexual choice is absolutely respected. No one has the right to oppose the choice of someone or someone in the way they shape and build their life. It is, however, also the responsibility of the state, a favoured democratic state, which has structures for protecting its citizens, which has a framework for protecting its citizens' rights, to create such a framework that ensures the same rights for all. That is why it is absolutely essential that issues relating to social, labour, tax and insurance uncertainties, which are introduced by this bill, find our complete support. Thirdly, the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which condemned our country for being discreet, was correct, and on this basis the Greek state should legislate so that there is no sign of discreet treatment. All that I have said is in our own sphere of perception of a party, such as the New Democracy, European. After all, we do nothing more or nothing less than legislate in the direction that is the majority of modern democratic European countries. And for the New Democracy, a purely European party, a party that is at the heart of this perception, it is understandable that we are in favour of these views and we will support them. But there is one issue. The question is how the government introduces this bill. And I want the Greek people to listen to us, because it is a crucial issue, for the people who are waiting today for this bill to be passed. He expects the Greek society to see why the New Democracy or why the parties are placed in this way or the other way. We are therefore in favour of extending the symbiosis pact. However, the question raised is more important in the sense that it is deliberately frustrated by the government itself with the cohabitation agreement. For a clear position, a clear political perception, a solid position is when you bring this pact to the House to vote in favour of it on clear terms towards society. Is the government doing this? No, Minister. And you don't do it either intentionally or once again manually or why you want to serve photographically, through the provisions of the bill, other things. For example, there is the question that actually overturns a number of the Criminal Code, which Mr Athanasios mentioned, our rapporteur. Why are you doing this? In such a critical bill, really, can you tell me what the blockage of transport is about? The homosexuals who are actually following us today who see our position will be wondering what the issue of criminal proceedings and the change of the pact is in relation to the pact. None. Why are you doing this? But let me go to another issue, which I consider to be even more important. Look, societies are moving forward, evolving and there is respect for human rights and no one is denying this. We said just now to the House, through the position I have put forward, that we are in favour of human rights and the extension of the coexistence agreement. But, Minister, we cannot accept this hypocritical of you with whom we are opposed to introducing the issue of marriage and adoption. This cannot be accepted. We asked you just before, through our rapporteur. We told you "Come here, to vote together, but you are exempted from marriage and adoption". If you object, I say to you - because with your legal knowledge you know very well that whatever statement of intent you do, the courts do not judge on the basis of the Minister's position, but on the basis of the law - 'So remove the issue of marriage, remove the issue of adoption' - that is our difference - 'we shall vote'. So we will wait until the end of the process, expressing our position, solid, clean, that we are in favour of human rights, equal treatment of human value, the right to choice, how everyone conducts equal rights in society at the level of tax insurers. Yes! Not on the basis of marriage and adoption. I say so in detail, because we must make it clear and clearly separate our position from what you are bringing today. So we will wait until the end of the process to take this step together, to vote together. We want it! But you will be legally withdrawing these provisions. We're clear. At the same time, an amendment was tabled by Members of the New Democracy, concerning the Prefectures of Evros, Kavala, Dramas and Xanthi. It concerns the issue of wage costs, of subsidies, of entrepreneurs and professionals in these areas, which is pending and has not been satisfied and has not been implemented by the government. Please very much ask the Minister, who is present, whether you should give a deadline not to waive the claim of these rights or to offset them, once the money is not available, with dues from these businesses. With these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing the SYRIZA side, mainly SYRIZA. We want to vote together. But you'll get rid of the bill of extending the cohabitation agreement from adoption and from marriage. It's challenging. He can't pass such a bill. We want to vote on it, and by the end of the procedure we will wait for the Minister, by legislation, to eliminate these two heresys and we will be close. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Mr Paradise, Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u269	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill has the first term 'cohabitation pact' in its title, but its consistency is guaranteed by the second reference, the second concept, which is 'the exercise of rights'. In fact, its main content is the regulation of the exercise of certain rights, their delimitation and the control of that exercise. In the field there is a material that you have heard a little bit, which is why I shall briefly put it to you. I would like to say that there are some principles going through it. One principle was already mentioned by Mr Chakalotos. It is the principle of liberalism, the principle that a man is free to do what he wants to do as long as he does not endanger or harm third parties. Do not jeopardise third parties in empirical terms and also in empirical terms. This principle is enshrined in our Constitution. It is established to be called ‘right to dispute’. Each person has the right to be as different as any other, when it does not harm third parties, and is guaranteed in particular in the provisions of Articles 2 and 5 of our Constitution. Of course, it is the basis of liberalism. Usually in the world everyone goes back to John Stewart Mill when they mention the basic principle of liberalism, which monstrously found the oppression of man who does not harm anything. I think, however, that we need to remember and that is why I will repeat it - and I have told the committee - and the Democritus verb: 'If the laws are not exonerated by each individual person in his own power, then there is no further need for it.' No difference from the saying of John Stewart Mill or from the modern views of realism and liberalism. The second principle behind this bill is that the law must be based on social reality. In other words, a method of regulation is not chosen, which dictates the opposite, which says that the law must determine what it will be like. This bill denounces society, sees what is functional, what promotes social peace and that tries to integrate. Of course, all of this in conjunction with the principle of proportionality: serious liability entails a serious legal consequence, a slight liability entails a slight consequence or perhaps an exemption from consequences. The first issue, of course, is what concerns you most, the coexistence agreement. It has been made clear that the cohabitation pact regulates a social issue and has nothing to do with religion or nature. Its content is new in relation to the institutional tool, the pact we previously had, in two areas: one is that homogeneity is now recognised and regulated. The second is that relations between heterophylus and certain issues are more detailed. There are indeed some innovations concerning the recognition of a hereditary right, but with the right to refuse legal fate, the voidity of the pact in the event of a virtuality and some other arrangements which I understand from the debate here do not give rise to any specific reaction. One thing is what he has been dealing with here, is that there is an indirect recognition of adoption through the cohabitation agreement which is being introduced at the moment. The answer is unequivocally 'no' and is not merely a speaker's answer, which is clearly the text of the law. There are arrangements for the adoption, arrangements for criminal law and civil law. Legislation generally only changes if a new different regulation on the same subject arises or is abolished. Neither does the other. The cohabitation pact does not introduce childbirth. There was a misunderstanding. There were fears that the rules under which they apply to parts of proportionate law may also cover an extension of childbirth in such cases. It is precisely because this fear has been expressed, one of the legislative improvements which I have already announced - and today I am announcing it again, but I propose this at the end because of the subject - it states that other provisions of laws concerning claims by spouses, as well as claims, benefits or benefits to third parties or the public, apply accordingly etc. It is clear that under the terms'requirements' or 'benefits' or 'benefits', adoption cannot, in any way, be understood as either socially or verbal or legal. Therefore, childcare is not regulated. I have even come to apologise to SYRIZA Members and to Mr Foela from Potami, refusing to recognize the marginal situation of the granting of custody to former children. And I have explained that I do not accept this regulation now, not because, in principle, I have some opposition. I would barely say now that I agree. I do not, however, introduce it, because this regulation would require intervention in several other provisions of family law. The same should be said of marriage and not just the cohabitation agreement. There should be provision for what to do if the cohabitation pact is resolved and how to ensure that we do not have three diligences, and the previous parent and partner that will emerge. This would require a more general intervention in family law, which I can assure you is being attempted and will address many issues, including the issue of childbirth. However, it is not done with this piece of legislation, and that is clear. Apart from the specific first chapter on the Cohabitation Pact, a provision is being made for the establishment of a Racism and Racism Study Council. The Council's recommendation is due to the conviction we all have in this Chamber that these issues must be dealt with, first of all, by study, research and social means and not by suppression or much more by force. We need a study, and that is why the Council is being set up. The committee has been enthusiastic about the possibility of setting up subcommittees whose members are enough. I have already heard Mr Gioka's comment today that the GSE and the AED should be involved. It is right, and that is why I am adding it now by amending the text you have before you. We then have a number of regulations relating to criminal law. And these have been criticised and I would like to develop them as soon as I can. The rules concerning the disabled are the correction of a previous disability in general, without discerning the situation where temporary invalidity is possible. We have not had any implementation problems until now, but the prediction now can relieve us of a future issue that will be created. There is one provision concerning babys, namely the possibility for women with young children under the age of eight to perform their sentence at home in order to be close to their children, since their sentence does not exceed 10 years. There is one provision then, Article 81A, which I would say, in racist activism, in acts of racism. The only change made to the predominant arrangement is as follows. The previous regulation referred to racist motives, while the new one refers to externally-occupied racist incidents, resulting from the circumstances. It's obvious why. Incentives are not photographed, proven and very fluid, while what has an external appearance is proven in a much clearer way. That's all that surgery is. Then there is a series of arrangements for minors. I don't think it's too much of a regulation. Some of them are procedural. What is, above all, stated is that the heaviest penalty for criminal punishment is imposed, since the security measure in an institution that was preceded by an escape and then by a felony. This is also the case in acts which lead to the penitentiary. Because I have heard Members complain that the number of people who can enter a penitentiary in a special detention shop for young people is shrinking - that means they are left to their luck - I must say that, of course, there are previous institutions, there is an institution where young people can be and have one care in the event that they do not enter the penitentiary store. Of course, this does not mean that efforts to upgrade are not now being made.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u270	Excuse me, Minister, but it's minimal.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u271	It is very little, and more needs to be done. You're right. I would therefore like to refer to the occupations of roads, because I think there is a misunderstanding here. It has been said that the introduction due to legal remission of the sentence, that is to say, potential discharge or those who, as the provision finally made with your contribution, have ceased circulation for an insignificant period of time or those who have done so in order to defend a wider social interest, is vague. I have explained before the committee, and I would like to repeat it: vagueness is only disturbing if criminals are founded or the criminal is charged. We are not concerned about vagueness in the case where we are dealing with a reduction in penalties or whether we are dealing with a discharge of the sentence. In these cases, the legislator usually chooses formalities which are evaluative, loose, such as the protection of legitimate interests in Article 367, the protection of interests in Article 370 of the Criminal Code and in any case Article 20 of the Criminal Code, which refers to the lifting of the injustice in general, refers to the existence of rights indefinitely. So, what's going on? The legislator has wished to waive the unjustity or the judicial remission of the sentence to formulate it in broad terms so that the judge could have flexibility in order to determine which cases they may be either acquitted or exempted in any way. Therefore, the regulation, as it is introduced, follows the standard rule on how to formulate lightning or softening devices. There are some press-related arrangements. And they echo the same liberalism. On the one hand, the minimum level of compensation is abolished and it is determined proportionately and, on the other, a correction procedure is envisaged which, as I understand it from the work here, has not been disturbed at all. It is also planned that the case should lead to a mandatory rather than a potential re-examination. I then think that the procedural arrangements were inconsistent and did not meet any objections. Besides, most were technical arrangements. The same applies to the regulations relating to Penalty Law which are at the end of this legislation. I should like here to read out the legislative improvements which have been made and which are linked to the issues that have been dealt with here. One of these legislative improvements relates to Article 12 of the law, and it is precisely the one previously read by me, which expressly ensures that it does not concern adoption. The next one is crime with racist characteristics - Article 81A - where the correction made is entirely technical and express. The term ‘racial characteristics’ is simply added. We shall then proceed with the addition referred to in Article 28 concerning the provision of Article 289 of the Criminal Code. It is the one I spoke about before, which concerns the possibility of exempting those who are disturbing traffic for an insignificant period of time in the interests of the wider interest. The amendment here is simply that the two conditions, insignificantness and social interest are divisively put in place. The amendment then refers to Article 361B, which I did not mention before. It is the article that punishes exclusion because of race, colour, sexual orientation and others, from providing blood or food. I have to say that this provision is placed among crimes against the price because it really affects the price. Like saying a man of garbage or saying he's nothing to his honor, so treating him like he doesn't have a personality, as if it's nothing, and that affects his honor. After these legislative improvements, I would also like to inform you of the amendments which, for my part, are accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u272	Minister, wait a minute. I'm interrupting. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u273	Here you go. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u274	As far as the legislative improvements that you have just said are concerned, it is good to put them before you to share in this House, as well as the amendments, which I tell you in advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u275	Sure. I've been informed that they've already been filed, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u276	Legislative is not what they inform me. Either way, you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u277	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u278	Well, I'll talk about the amendments now. I shall refer first to the amendments of the Ministers. The first amendment to be accepted is the amendment tabled by Mr Papagelopoulos, who announced it. It is about how evidence is obtained in crimes that fall within the competence of the prosecutor of corruption and the financial prosecutor. Also, for my part is the regulation announced by Mr Kontonis earlier here, which concerns the choice of judges for the Sport Court. Other amendments which I had announced yesterday were those which were completely technical. It concerned the replacement of the word ‘regional unity’ by the word ‘region’. We also have in his article n. 4022 the words ‘in all exceptional cases the court may order the suspension of the proceedings for a maximum of fifteen days. and if, after the interruption, the trial cannot continue for any reason, it shall be postponed and determined on a day no longer than two months from now.’; And this amendment has been announced since yesterday and...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u279	Minister, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u280	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u281	Maybe it was my fault when I interrupted you before. As far as the amendments you refer to are concerned, I would ask you, even if you refer to the number of the protocol, to the general number. If not the special number, tell us the overall number.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u282	Mr President, I am not ready to do that now. You will allow me to finish development, and then I will give you the numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u283	All right, Minister. Give us the situation later.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u284	The most important amendment is the abolition of the provision of Article 347 of the Criminal Code. It is a provision that criminalises insanity rather than insanity. I would like to clarify, having heard the fears of Members of Parliament, that the provision of Article 347 of the Criminal Code, by its abolition, leaves no hindrance to the unjustity of its merits. In other words, what this provision describes is criminally covered by the provision of the seduction of minors under Article 339 of the Criminal Code for persons up to 15 years old. For minors over 15 years of age, it is covered by Article 342 concerning the misleading of minors in inactivity, Article 343 concerning abuse of incontinence in service relations, the provision of incest, and also the provisions relating to expulsion, that is to say, provisions concerning pornography, masturbation or trafficking. In other words, the whole scope of this article is covered by others. Where coexistence exists, it is true, which means that other provisions apply, as Mr Athanasios mentioned earlier. A true string means that the other one is also applied, but no gap is left. Finally, I should like to say that all these reasons, namely the coverage of other regulations, have so far led to this provision being completely inappropriate. Our case-law did not use it, nor did our society condemn homosexual relations in any way. Therefore, in this area too, legislation follows the social flow and follows the case law. Let me say that accepting this amendment to Article 347 is historic to an extent, which we perhaps do not know easily. The honoring of homosexual acts has a prehistoric history of four millenniums. Already in proclassical law we have seen the penalty of homosexual acts, and even, with death, which continued until a few centuries ago and only recently, in the 20th century, societies began to renounce this act. This is therefore a millennium section. Thank you very much, Mr President. I'll give you the number right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u285	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Amyras has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u286	Mr President, the Minister said about a legislative improvement to Article 28. Can you give me the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u287	Well, now, Mr. Theocharopoulos, everyone can ask why to ask questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u288	The Minister spoke twenty-two minutes and I will need a minute to clarify the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u289	Uh, now, excuse me. There may also be many questions from other Members or parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u290	It's good to listen to me for a minute so she can make the improvement during.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u291	Take the floor for a minute. Mr. Amyra, wait a minute, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u292	Minister, the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament in Article 28 states that it would facilitate the implementation of the provision by reference to other criteria, other than the pursuit of a wider social interest, such as the intensity of the blockade of transport, its duration, the existence of alternative routes, the objective relationship between the object of the protest and the persons, since Article 28 contains the arrangements under which the act of blockage of transport and the defence of the wider social interest, with the vagueness to which it refers, does not cover, because there is still vagueness, despite the justification you have had. And of course, you have made two legislative improvements, but not important in relation to what I am saying to you, which is mentioned in the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, as it introduces an vague assessment concept. Who, after all, defines the wider social interest if a la carte is defined at a time? Therefore, the introduction of these, which the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament states, would make it easier for this article to be clearer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u293	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u294	Minister, I would suggest that we have a number of hours before us to discuss this draft law, if you would like to ask Members or Members of Parliament, and at some point to speak. Or do you want to answer now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u295	I can answer it quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u296	Please respond quickly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u297	I have taken note of the report, which is particularly interesting and positive with regard to the regulation of Article 28, as you have noticed. And what he notes, that other criteria relating to duration should be taken into account, is what has given a grip on the legislative improvement, which we are doing and which also introduces the lengthy term as also a criterion for judicial retaliation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start with one assumption that any relationship between adults is based on respect, stimulates respect, love and fellowship is a good thing. Any bond is forged through understanding, and of course, as I say again, love is blessed. And let them say what the golden people and the Independent Greeks want. However, the way in which the discussion was held on the extension of the cohabitation pact and the homogeneous couples shows that - as was carried out in channels, in some churches, here through some colleagues - I will say, thankfully, but possible in the voice track of the Greek society is in a delay, experiences a semi-balkalkan soup in his mind and absolutely has reference to the 12th century rather than 2015. First of all, we must say: The great, overwhelming majority of Greek citizens want there to be no distinction between homosexual couples, heterosexuals, between a gay, a straight, a bay, a transgender and anyone else. This is demonstrated by the 75% of the polls, the polls two months ago in the Greek citizens' replies that they naturally agree with the full equalisation of rights to all, regardless of sexual or other orientation. We must therefore say that today's vote on the extension of the coexistence agreement is no revolution. It is compliance - we have said it many times - with the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. It's the Valianato case, 7-11-2013. I see Gregory there, and I imagine that within him he will feel a little satisfaction, despite the fact that the cohabitation pact, as it comes here, is lacking, it is rusted, and in any case we all have to see how we extend it, we will make it a real cohabitation pact in terms of equality with everyone. I would remind you, therefore, that our country had been convicted, because among nineteen countries that had introduced the cohabitation pact to all, Greece and Lithuania were the only countries that turned through the engagement. Even without the execution of the erotic act. That's a shame. Well, here we are dealing with equal rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u300	It's adjusting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u301	Yes, Mr. Athanasios, we are dealing with equal rights. It is the core, it is the essence of European culture, and after all we Greeks are supposed to be, we are the generators of the European spirit. Here, however, things are a little different in Greece of 2015. I want to make a little comment. I don't know what position the New Democracy will take. He says that if you do not take the provisions on childbirth and civil marriage - which do not exist in this proposal for a law - he will not vote on it. And here is a turn through the engagement without the enjoyment of sex. Well, it doesn't matter if someone's fat, if he's impossible, if he's tall, if he's short, if he's straight, if he's gay, it's important that there's a isopolitical and isopolitical. And that is why I would like to address our friends ANEL. They're in bed, the ANELs, in crescendo. They competed, strangled the golden people who would pull out the most homophobic, the most racist, the half-manest crown. So she said - and I will start from the softest - the party's spokesman, Mrs Chrysovelloni, speaking of childbirth, that European legislation - she says - forbids it. Let someone tell her, however, slowly, that Article 7 of the European Convention for the Adoption of Legend between Genders also allows for childbirth. How do we do it? As for the President of the ANLEs, Mr Kammenos and his extermination, Mr Katsikis, who have linked homosexuality to abortion and to offending acts, to say that they have a right. They have a point. If, for example, a gay is in love with Mr Katsiki on the basis of common consent, the gay may be accused of brutality. Ladies and gentlemen, I have two talk about the church. The church showed us a double face, like God Janus in Rome. We had "Mula Omar" Kalavriton, who, in words of love, proved to be a champion in spit. He took his inside world out and took the paper of publicity. But I remind you that he is the one who had termed "sweet hope" on the Golden Dawn. Therefore, we should not attach great importance to these words. At the same time, however, Siatistis and Sisani Paul had said, in response to "Mula Omar" Ambrosios: "The reason that was heard by this sacred person has nothing to do with the church, for it has nothing to do with Christ". Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in the recasting of Article 12, you left the tax rights of the couples of the same family outside. What for? They will not be able to submit a joint tax declaration. That, you know, will once again come to the European Court of Justice. Why do you hate New Democracy at its worst? In addition, our rapporteur, our excellent colleague, Mr Achaias, Jason Fotillas, tabled an amendment. The first form of the amendment tabled by the Potamian Members, via Isona Fotima, was about parental care. It was the great wording, the bold - let us say - 'big ears' - that Vassilis Sotiopoulos, the publicist and the company in the region had shaped. We didn't find any fertile ground. SYRIZA was beaten. He testified after the second, most lute version, on children's custody. The children, i.e., who are born or have been adopted by one of the two parts of the same family in the cohabitation agreement, the children who have one natural parent before they have acquired or adopted. What if the natural parent dies? It's either going to a grandma or some foundation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u302	Is it bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u303	It's not bad. If she was going to Grandma, she'd go back to Grandma from the beginning. The child should grow up in the environment, my dear SYRIZA's colleague, where there is love and where there is reason. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the river support full equality of rights. We support the childbirth of gay couples. Let us finally start a debate on science with psychologists, with social workers, with all those who, in any case, have the experience to open our eyes. We fully support political union, namely political marriage. We are, of course, fully in favour of the right to determine gender identity. Of course, we support - to get away from this issue and to extend a little - the right to combustion and to the choice of anyone for the postmortem behaviour of their relatives vis-à-vis their body and, of course, to euthanasia, the right to euthanasia. I have also written a play, which has been uploaded to the theatre Dimitris Potamitis years ago, for two - three years, on this subject. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very good that Article 347 of the Criminal Code left us time. It was a ridiculousness of Greek society, which fortunately we leave it from what seems backwards. In conclusion, I would like to tell you that freedom of choice is the basic dignity of man. Being gay is a great thing. Being narrow-minded, malicious and Mullas Omar then we have a problem and the Greek civilization can't stand this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u304	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u305	Mr. Zuraris isn't here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u306	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u307	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u308	I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u309	On staff, for what?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u310	But you have heard him speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u311	You'll first explain why.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u312	The reason is that I as Kammenos's exterminator, if I join a gay man, so he will be on a vet because of our association. I think you should accept the reason and give me the right to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u313	Wait a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u314	Mr President, in this House during the debate on this bill, I would like to denounce that there is... in this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u315	I would ask you a lot, what you were addressing just now, to get it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u316	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u317	Excuse me very much, I insist.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u318	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u319	I'm revoking you to class. And since you know the staff, you should know what follows the revocation in order from the Bureau to the honourable Member. Please. You'll call it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u320	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u321	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u322	Mr. Amyra, here, for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u323	Sure. I would like to say this: to call you a political punk, homophobic Katsiki, something you're doing well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u324	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u325	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u326	I would ask that the places be erased from the Minutes as far as Mr. Amyras is concerned by Mr. Katsikis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u327	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u328	Mr Zuraris has the floor, which I do not see in the Chamber. Independent MEP Mr Nicholas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u329	Mr President, how many Members are still going to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u330	We have been asking for the floor for some time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u331	Many people are asking for the floor. You're right, Mr. Karayannides. I said before, before taking the floor, that we would reach your name, but only from Members. I am under pressure - and here I also want your contribution - from Mrs Vaki, when the eighth of the eight speakers are completed, which is completed with Mr Nikolaopoulos, to take that floor. I asked this House - and you agreed - to continue beyond the eighth with the next five Members and then speak either as a parliamentary representative or as a minister. If the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman insists, I will give her the floor after Mr Nikolaopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u332	I do not insist, but at first we said to talk every four.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u333	Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u334	Mr President, I would ask you to do the same, to ask from the Minutes that the designations for the Reverential Metropolitan of Aegial be deleted - unless you did not follow at that time - should the designation 'Omar Mullas' be deleted from the Minutes. I also think that you should do the same, even now, since someone spoke a moment ago to a fellow Member in this insulting and inappropriate way, while Mr Katsikis was absent. Of course, he can be proud, saying gay, any Member of Parliament, and so can proudly be a fellow Member, but I imagine that we should not get your permission to say just as proud as you are because we are many. It would, of course, have been expected to have also been revoked in the classroom, the one who said in this Chamber that he writes Members in his old shoes. What is all this worth now? Here, and the New Democracy has become progressive today. We heard it just before Mr. Chakaloto. Congratulations, ladies and gentlemen. However, Mr Athanasios does not want to be progressive when he is trying to break down the judiciary and he wants to complain because it seems to him that the amendment is a service which the President of the Ice Bay can do. We've heard of a golf club, too. Those who denounced the goulops are today talking about goulops that they say, says, exactly the opposite of what the Greek society believes. We've heard Mr. Chakaloto too. I thought he'd talk about what's badly going on in the country, but Mr. Chakalotos "leaved the wedding to go for porcupines". Bravo! Ladies and gentlemen, while the country finds open fronts and survival issues, suddenly some have limited their sensitivity and social reflexes to the restoration of homosexuals, even limiting the rights of freedom and equality only to the specific category of our fellow people. Clearly, the choices of each of us must be free, which is why before all the Christian Democratic Party of Greece wants to stress that every man has the opportunity of free choice in his way of life in the right or wrong direction, but it is sufficient that he does not affect the other and does not require the overthrowing of fundamental principles of human existence and by extension of society. For some time now there has been terrorism by the media, a specific racism to all those who do not want to accept this model. The National Representation today has heard many paradoxes. Well, then, we want an unaltered truth to be heard, that everything that does not agree with God’s Word for those who believe, as he is witnessed through the Bible, cannot for any reason - my friend, Mr. Papatheodorou, is missing, to remind him of his children’s teachings - be accepted by the Orthodox Christian biblical and fatherly tradition. Legislation on homosexual coexistence which the government is struggling to impose is inverting hagiographic teaching and a proposal of life. I present the related passages of the Bible to my fellow believers, my fellow believers, who sang with me in the squares "Have homeland, live religion, live New Democracy". [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The legislation on homosexual co-existence, ladies and gentlemen, certainly in many respects, wanted profound amendments. The Christian Democratic Party of Greece is counting on the already expressed position of the Church of Greece. I'm talking about some people who want to say that there isn't one. She in her communication describes this pact of free coexistence as unfamiliar, and even argues that these are diversions of the family institution and the emerging forms of family. I would like to repeat from Stepa this saying of Archbishop Athens and all Greece: "The union of two people through marriage is a mystery great for our church. Everything outside the mystery is foreign to church life." Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Christian Democrats of course want to tackle racism and intolerance, because the societies of hatred and vengeance that are not tolerable to physiological diversity are not capable of hosting values nor of creating progress and culture nor of sustaining and surviving. Societies which prohibit the stigmatisation and control of psychosocial distortions, such as genocide - Mr Phile - and homosexuality, and racism, these societies and societies are neither democracies. Ladies and gentlemen, why did the same sensitivity not appear in defending the right of children who are now growing up and must continue to be aware of the truth about human biology and the balance between gender and gender coexistence? The defence of this truth with the small powers is without fanaticism, but with a clear and loving reason to speak and, of course, without unanimity. By voting in favour, those who give will risk entrenched in time and consciousness of our people. Ladies and gentlemen, modern democratic societies tolerate diversity and sexual preferences. This is legitimate, as long as diversity is not encouraged against the laws of nature and the traditional structure of the family. We are therefore opposed to the government's legislative initiative because we believe that as an ageing nation with an acute demographic problem - such as our own - it must, in the opposite direction, move, namely to strengthen the family based on the harmonious marriage of men and women, which brings to life and society the sweet fruits of education. Because his rhetoric of hatred has never helped resolve social issues, particularly those concerning vulnerable groups and people, by ending, let us speak calmly and simply. Do we ignore the overwhelming majority of Greek citizens who have chosen to hold the father-in-law, sacred and national institutions of marriage high? Finally let us answer honestly to ourselves and one another: Are the creatures of nature reproduced with the heterosexuality or with the homosexual? Is it true, to date, what prevents someone who wants to guarantee the couple legally, civilly, even if it belongs to the same sex? Have we criminalized homosexuality in Greece? If they are all progressive, as some people have today banned themselves, and we are all following the model of this kind of pride, after a few years of truth, will we not lead to the disappearance of the nation, even when invaders, illegal immigrants or sympathetic Muslim refugees are still suffering too many children? Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that the government and Members of Parliament must realise that we have democracy in this place and that our role is not to control and impose our own ideals, but to take into account the religious, historical and cultural conscience, identity and idiosyncrasies of the entire Greek people. The coexistence pact will be a bomb on the foundations of the nation and the family, which is why we are not voting on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u335	Mrs Papacosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u336	Mr President, you have not answered me. You'll erase the...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u337	Get off the Step and I'll answer you by coming down. Since you are aware of what was said - and you quite rightly said - you should be informed or, if you are not, I inform you that the previous President-in-Office has asked - that the specific expressions concerning the Church be deleted from the Minutes. Ms. Papakosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u338	So it's gonna be the same thing as Mr. Amyras, you want to say. Because you were in the Bureau. Is that what you said, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u339	Please, Mrs Papakosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u340	Do you not respond, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u341	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today we are discussing a draft law, a multi-project, in fact. I would like to make my criticisms here to the side of the legislative initiative, because the legislator, who is the House, must really work coldly and not warmly, making use of the opportunity offered to him by his role, namely the legislative exercise of legislative power, to solve existing problems, social issues, because otherwise there is no reason to legislate. The law is the tool that the legislator has in his hands to solve the problem. If there's no problem, there's no need for law. In this sense, I would like to say that I am very sorry, very much sorry, because I found almost all the wings of the House, expressed by some colleagues throughout the political stratification here today, an effort to exploit the issue of the debate, particularly on the cohabitation pact, in order to address their electoral bases, where everyone or everyone considered or considered to be more powerful and to encapsulate this constituency in their own customer fields. I am deeply sorry for this because the extremes and extremes of anyone do not contribute to the result sought, which is to legislate an undisturbed social necessity and a legal necessity here today. As far as the government is concerned, I wonder why you have brought in, Mr Minister, which has the legislative initiative, this multi-project with unnecessarily defined provisions, and indeed a precursor. It is a fruit-fruit bill - let me speak - where all fruit together coexist under the heading 'cohabitation pact'. Obviously, I think that you have done so in order to bring the Civic Opposition and especially the New Democracy into trouble. So I inform you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that when you bring to bills, for example, the question of how the school managers are to be shown, considering education as a shed, you are wrongly legislated. So you bring the question of the cohabitation agreement into a multiplier plan to cover two issues. Firstly, the fact that the country is being shaken by the latitude of the measures that have taken as a hurricane on Greek society and you want to turn the lights of publicity elsewhere. Secondly, as I said before, you think you want to bring a strong, strong, large liberal party with historical roots, a European party, such as my own, the New Democracy party, which is particularly sensitive to human rights, in a difficult position. Go away, you are deceiving deceitful deceit, Ministers of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there has been a misunderstanding about what we are discussing today. The coexistence pact, which, in my view, the previous government should have brought in and resolved in the right way, because the way in which it is attempting to establish itself today by the governmental majority is not the right one - and that is where the previous government has been culminating - does not concern and does not protect sexual freedom. It is also protected by the Constitution, which is also protected by our legal system. The cohabitation pact concerns the regulation of relationships which have to do with the social need, which has emerged - and the legal need because there is a gap - to deal with issues such as, for example, tax issues, such as matters of property, such as health care and insurance, and a number of other administrative issues facing the couples who have chosen to cohabit. In this sense, therefore, all the rest that has been heard about alleged equality - because these issues will be dealt with, equality of rights which constitute administrative acts - in fact, there was a legal vacuum in these matters which must be covered, the cohabitation pact is coming to resolve it, and so far I think no one has any objection. However, questions that have to do with her as such with the essence of marriage, whose definition of marriage is given everywhere, there is no other definition through the European Convention on Human Rights for Marriage, neither by European legislation, nor by Greek legislation, nor by any other definition, where marriage is defined in this way as a relationship - because I have heard from a previous colleague very much invoked the divine and sacred rules of the Church of Greece and Holy Augustine defines marriage, but also our Civil Code and our Constitution - between men and women, in order to reproduce, therefore, the birth, the creation of children. In this sense, therefore, anything else is legislated - as long as science does not allow homosexuals and heterosexuals to produce the same product, i.e. children, only the heterosexual couples - I think it is not the subject of discussion. That is why I said earlier that there has been a misunderstanding in this House about exactly what we are legislating for. Therefore, the issue of marriage cannot be raised by definition, because marriage by definition, ad hoc, is about heterogeneous couples. Adoption issue: Adoption also cannot be raised. I have heard that, too, by colleagues who have said 'but the purpose is'. We - and I personally - believe that the aim is to solve a social need, a lack of legality which arises in the relations between the sexes who coexist, so that they do not feel that they are discriminated against and treated unequally. And from there on, the issues of marriage, but also the adoptions, I think they are detailed and cannot be misunderstood between us, the legislators, I mean. Finally, Minister, you said something that does not go hand in hand with the legal reality and above all does not go hand in hand with the threat and harmful behaviour of third parties, namely the abolition of Article 347 of the Criminal Code, where there is the ninth chapter of the Criminal Code where - what is protected? - the protection of sexual freedom. It's about crimes against sexual freedom. And what's defined there, please? That is where the risk is defined. Because if you do, Minister, you said there will be no legal vacuum. On the other hand, I think that there will be a legal vacuum, and in particular that part concerning the protection of rabies against the burden of person, which benefits from the exercise of rather than inactivity, in order to be bio-infected. That's empty.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u342	Finish it, Ms. Papakosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u343	I shall conclude, Mr President. I want to tell you something else. The legitimate good, which is protected there, is the good of non-consensual relationship. We are not talking about a homogeneous relationship, to which both sides agree, Mr President, and I close with that. We are talking about exercising rather than compelling the other person, whether he is a minor or a misuse of power or a financial benefit, so a criminal act. Therefore, the legitimate good, which is protected, is the sexual freedom from a criminal in the other series of acts, which are directed against this lawful good.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u344	Close with this, Mrs. Papacosta, you've been over nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u345	I would like one more minute, Mr President, and I have completed. In that sense, Mr President, I do not think there is any need to violate this provision because it does not protect legal relations, which are based on mutual respect for each other's sexual freedom, but on criminal offences, which must of course be persecuted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u346	Mr Santorinios has the floor, from which five-minute positions begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u347	Five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u348	Excuse me, but this is how you decided with the previous President-in-Office that by closing the circle of the first eight speakers, we will be in five-minute positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u349	Yes, sir. I would like a slight tolerance, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill aims to strengthen human rights in our country, the country that in recent years has suffered the violence of the economic crisis, the poorening of the low and medium-sized sections of society and the weakening of its institutions. Our country has so far fifty three convictions by the Council of Europe. In fact, between 2001 and 2014, fines amounting to EUR 1.8 million have been charged for human rights violations. This law shields victims of racism and intolerance. The recommendation of the respective National Council and its indictment with institutional responsibilities, as well as the changes of the Criminal Code for racist crimes means that we have not forgotten the more than a hundred victims of racist violence for 2014 alone, we have not forgotten the aggregations of shame for Greeks only, when hunger and the need for survival we all know very well that it has neither color nor religion. The hatred against the other, the other, the foreigner, the different can put parties in the House, but for the Left it is a constant struggle on the road, on the movements, on the social sphere, but also on the institutional level, as it is shown today. Our effort to dismantle the courts and speed up the adoption of judgments continues with the introduction of a relevant regulation to strengthen the number of judicial and criminal justice officers. There are very important cases in the street with exceptional criminal and political interest that they must not stick to the well-known yet slow pace of Greek justice. The Greek society is asking for the results of this and yet the sense of justice cannot be met immediately and we have decided to strengthen staff. In fact, it is proposed to extend the list of successful judges' previous competitions for the direct staff of the country's judicial services, which are facing serious problems due to a lack of staff. The regulation for rationalisation of the so-called'standard law' responds to a consistent demand from the journalistic community. Up to now financially relief actions against journalists were being imposed and freedom of the press was at stake. Our intention is to combine freedom of expression and of the press with the protection of the honor of citizens. Since time has decreased, I should like to raise the issue of the coexistence agreement. I feel very proud that the rules on his or her power and on his gay couples are finally introduced by our government. The family ties are recognized among themselves, namely the truth and reality that society has accepted and embraced, but the state has been lagging so short, obedient to extreme and conservative voices, burdening the country with many convictions and with the stigma of incomplete democracy and the limitation of rights. Ladies and gentlemen, for us this bill is about the hundreds of thousands of people who waited for recognition by the state of their right to diversity, the hundreds of thousands of people who fought for human rights, through movements or even individually. It concerns Paul Bryssa, Sahjat Luman, the anonymous victims of Manolad, the seropositives that have been subjected to public infiltration and, of course, all those who were afraid to live differently from the applicable social norms. This bill means to many people freedom and practical recognition of equality. For us it means respecting the constitution that we swore to the people to serve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u350	Thank you, Mr. Santorinio. Mrs Keroyannis has the floor from New Democracy. It will be followed by Mr Philis, who has asked for the floor, while we said that he will speak after Mrs Vaki, because there has been an urgent obligation and she will have to leave. So, don't deprive him of the ability to place him after Mrs. Kefaliannis. You have the floor, Mrs. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u351	Ladies and gentlemen, once again the government is unjustifiedly following the path of the accumulation of many different and important issues in a bill. This is a negative methodology that the government systematically uses, a practice that demonstrates that there is a great gap between what it says and what it does and which, unfortunately, is deliberately repeated in all the legislations from the first day of SYRIZA - ANEL governance. The face of the so - called socially sensitive government that is subjected to a la cart on the right arm of ANELs has long fallen. The government has now shown its real face. A government aimed at the propaganda management of the policy fields, at an extremely delicate and critical period for the future of our country. A government without strategy, with ideological obsession, without any plan. A government that only cares about it is how to get communal survival breaths and certainly not how to give solutions to the citizens' real problems. Ladies and gentlemen, the first part of the bill under discussion concerns the cohabitation pact and the homosexual couples. It comes to regulate the terms and conditions for a contract signed by two people, through which the rights and obligations to each other are defined and clarified. Some years ago and specifically in 2008, in the debate on the draft law on family, child and society reforms, v. 3179, by which the conclusion of a cohabitation agreement was enacted, but which concerned only heterogeneous couples. Many colleagues at that time, including myself, in the House, pointed out that this law was void in this respect and was not compatible with the European Convention on Human Rights. In other words, we stressed that this arrangement should have been extended to the homosexual couples as well. In November 2013, following appeals by Greek citizens, unfortunately, our country was condemned by the European Court of Human Rights for violating Articles 8 and 14 of the ECHR, due to the exclusion of homosexual couples from the possibility of concluding a cohabitation agreement in our country. It is, therefore, a State's duty today to recognise the legal recognition of the associations of homosexuals. Besides, the state has to deal with its citizens on an equal footing, in accordance with the Constitution, its European and international obligations. This part of the bill comes to give solutions to practical issues, insurance, tax, hereditary, pensions, faced by the homosexuals, according to its current provisions. 3719/2008, in Greece. After all, these are issues that have already been addressed in other countries of the European Union, but also in many countries of the rest of the world, for many years now, because they concern the lives of many people and their rights. The recognition, moreover, of the cohabitation of homosexual couples does not jeopardise the constitutionally protected institutions and values, the traditions that hold strong and coherent, time-consuming Greek society. Thus, the Greek state, with absolute respect for this, must take into account the current social reality, understand social demands and regulate in a fair way all the needs arising for all its citizens, contribute with its actions to combat all forms of discrimination and fear to the detriment of all our fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the same bill creates the National Council against Racism and Misallody, which we believe is in the right direction and can contribute to the fight against racism. However, we think it is very embarrassing and doubtful that we will eventually end up with another bureaucratic body and not an institution that produces policy and coordination for the real fight against racism and intolerance, which is also the real need to deal with. In addition, the multi-brand plan provides fragmentary, dispersed provisions concerning both issues of the Code of Criminal Procedure and penitentiary legislation and does not fall within the scope of a systemic and holistic approach to addressing the problems they have to solve. Ladies and gentlemen, it is regrettable that the government accumulates many and serious issues - which need to be processed - in different legislations. At least be, gentlemen of the government, positive to changes and do not remain sterilely negative and reactionary to what is for the benefit of the Greek society. With regard to the co-existence agreement, I would like to make it clear that I consider it necessary to harmonise our European and international obligations with a view to respecting the rights of our fellow people. And it is truly regrettable that we have heard expressions of total disrepute from our fellow citizens by your government partner. I wonder what you say about them. It is clear, however, that the only thing that connects you is a partnership that stays in power in any way, disregarding what really happens in Greek society. From the day you took over the rule of the place in one way or another, you are stumbling, systematically misinforming and provokingly ignoring the Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u352	Thank you, Mrs. Kefaliannis. The Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Friend, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u353	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the pursuit of SYRIZA is that House should become a House of Rights. And this pursuit is done under the state of emergency as it is created by the memorials, austerity. Indeed, this state breaks rights, disputes rights. The House of Rights must face up to all rights and social and political in the broadest sense, because personal rights are political in nature too. Staff is political too. There are no rights a la carte. The notion that there are good rights relating to work and bad or intolerable rights relating to personal relations is a concept that constitutes a matrix of discrimination. I would remind you of the phrase of a liberal German anti-insuranceist who said after the war: “When they were hitting and arrested the Jews, we said that these are for the Jews and it is none of our business. When they were beating and arresting homosexuals, we said that these are for homosexuals and it's none of our business. When they hit and arrested the communists, we said this was for the communists and it was none of our business. And then it came our turn." So there is no exercise of rights in la card. Secondly, it is clear that social rights, intangible rights - as they are said - are the rights, the values that make the most of a horizon and less material claims, divide, differentiate societies in another way. Today we had a small picture of this differentiation, a horizontal cross-party differentiation in relation to the issue of the cohabitation agreement. This horizontal differentiation in favour of social rights, based on a concept of political liberalism - which unfortunately in our country is shallow, because civil society is weak - obviously causes horizontal reactions. The cross-party arc of social conservatism and discrimination have been seen today in the House. We're watching it on television too. We see the rascals of hatred, which have nothing to do with Christianity, but with other dominating things they have. Every day we see it through perceptions of extreme right-wing, through the encouragement of racism, ethnic-sexualism and nationalism, which, as we live today, appears to be a tale of citizens' suffering. It is clear that on this black front with its shades, on this cross-party arc of social conservatism and discrimination, there is a need to rise through civil society, but also between us here, a front of the right speech, a front that will say 'no more and more' to the various perceptions that challenge a large category of citizens, to many categories of citizens on a case-by-case basis, the right to live on an equal footing. I have heard, and I would like to refer to this, despite the absence of the JRC from what I can see, the perception that it is all about capitalism. This is a primitive class reliance, which is not confirmed by history itself. If one believes that violations against women's rights, violations against homosexuals, racism are phenomena which are no longer apparent when socialism comes into our society, in our country, does not take into account what societies in Eastern Europe have experienced during existing socialism and of course does not take into account social experience. This is a millennial type of response to history. The reality of citizens is that there are many injustices and contradictions that arise not from basic, capital - work, but from other very important things, such as the relationship between men and women, such as the differences in sexuality and, of course, the great contrast that has to do with the environment, with the great ecological problem. Therefore, the social problem, to which some refer in a way of anachronistic and undermining the liberation process, is a problem that is combined with a variety of contradictions, forces of change, with a block that concerns not only labour, but also a set of social and political rights based on different social and political subjects. Around sexuality, about the right to pleasure, about love, rights and obligations are organized. Otherwise, if the relationship remains naked law, then we leave the automation of the short term power correlations that often take wild forms and dimensions. Repressed sexual minorities have experienced this kind of intensity of cruelty. Therefore, the debate here today is a debate on equality, equality and the rights of all citizens. It is clear that in this proposal, in a proposal that concerns not only Greece, but also other European countries, one can see day-to-day reactions. Mints are the one form of these reactions and we often see that these reactions, which - I repeat - are of an institutional character with rabies often but also of an informal nature. We see it in daily life with the citizens who, under many problems, are looking for the enemy next to them and the different diversity is the easy enemy. It is obvious that in this reality we must stand up to a stature of democracy, a decisive stature of right speech. I have finally left a big issue concerning sexual education in schools. It's obvious that this conversation here would be different between us if we had all become students in schools where there was no forbidden discussion about sexuality, about sex, about a lot of people's lives, that is. It is an obligation for the SYRIZA Government to be responsible, in a way that makes use of scientists and not unrelated persons, in a way that creates an educational framework, to bring sexual education to school. It is the least we can do, so that there is no repetition at any other time in the House of cries and opinions like those we have heard in this House and which do not honor the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u354	Mrs Cavadia has the floor. Mr Karayannides, Mr Zouraris and then the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA, Mrs Vaaki, will be followed by Mr Karayannides.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u355	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a special day. This is because we in Parliament have a bill which at last regulates issues, which have long been mature social demands, a bill which is coming to make it easier for the citizens of the country to demarcate and exercise their rights, without discrimination, without any divisions, without 'yes, but'. It's a special day for hundreds of thousands of people who finally come out of obscurity. Of the many positive provisions contained in the bill, I would like to focus on two specific points. One thing relates to the regulations on freedom of expression of the press, the other to the articles on the coexistence agreement, which are still in agreement today, in 2015, as unequal as possible to ensure that it is consistent and as defended as possible. With regard to Rule 37, first of all, I feel the need to say that I am pleased with what is now envisaged. The abolition of the minimum prescribed compulsory financial compensation to be paid as a result of moral harm on the part of the owner of the form against an unjustified person was a legal provision on the substance of tylicides. But here, I would like to make no mistake. It is true that there must be protection for every citizen against slandering and, of course, there are many cases where the citizen rightly invokes this protection. Unfortunately, there are people who not only honour it, but they are a disgrace to those who work in this area. However, the protection of the citizen cannot reach the point of declining the journalistic criticism because of the protracted threat of treatment by strong complainants. The financial satisfaction with defamation should be reasonable in relation to the damage caused to the individual's reputation, and the essential encouragement of the legislator for a redress act will, on the one hand, contribute to the rapid restoration of any moral harm and, on the other, to the prevention of indirect censorship. I now come to Articles 1 to 14 on the cohabitation pact. With the new regulations, the country is in line with its international obligations, the Pact becomes more detailed and more operational and is now also valid for the homosexual couples, which has caused a number of hypocritical reactions from those who insist on closing their eyes and ears in what is happening around them. But let us all see what is actually legislation. The Coexistence Pact is a contract between the parties. It recognizes, however, the family relationships that are created between them. Contrary to what was happening with the previous law, which established the inferiority of the pact against marriage, the new law on the one hand recognises the family relations of the parties and, on the other, promotes the private autonomy, namely respect for the private will of the parties. And this so obvious for a democratic society that respects any choices made by its members is a matter of extremely strong controversy. Unfortunately, we have read and heard a lot of mislocated voices these days. There is a portion of our fellow citizens who refuse people with different sexual orientation the right to live together with the people they have chosen. People in this Parliament - fortunately few - who otherwise speak of democracy and hierarchs - hope individual ones - of Christian religion, of religion that proclaims love, oppose the extension of the pact to all the citizens of the country, pretending they do not know that there are homogeneous couples who are forced to live in a status of legal non-existence, in a legal vacuum. Leaded by a scandalous fear toward the different ones, we refuse a portion of our people to regulate property, insurance and hereditary matters as they wish. By this law, such discrimination, at last, ceases to exist. Ladies and gentlemen, the more the state understands and implements the principle of equality, the less area racism will find in practice. For this reason, it is no longer possible to deny the obvious. It is not possible to afford equality and protection of private and family life to all of our fellow citizens regardless of their sexual self-determination. It is not possible in a democratic society to maintain a concept of legal exclusion against anyone. Today's vote on the bill can at first sight relate only to a group of our fellow citizens, but in reality it is an act of recognition of equality and equality of all citizens, an act of deep democracy. Only a society that recognises and respects diversity is a society that respects people as a whole as an entity and separately as a person. Today, in the Greek Parliament, the long-term institutional denial of the rights of the LGBTKI community is being defeated and retreated. Today social conservatism receives a serious blow, and all of us SYRIZA Members and MPs are proud of it. Man's liberation at all levels, therefore in the erotic field, respect for everyone's rights, refusal to impose a allegedly normality, accepting that we are all equal but not the same, are within the top values of the Left. Two more words, Mr President, and I shall end. We know that there are still many open issues. The extension of the cohabitation pact will not solve homophobia alone. However, let today's vote be seen as an important precedent for everything that needs to be followed so that fear of diversity, the mother of racism, can finally begin to be rooted out of the social body. And I will close with a phrase: "The choice I made was to live honestly my life," Stella Belia told us the day before yesterday in committee, the President of the "Uranium Arc Families", the families with parents - members of the LGBTQ community. Days that are let us look very well into our mirror and answer honestly how many and how many of us have done it in our lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u356	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I would like to make a statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, 50 students and students and six educational sessions from the Derveniou General School of Corinth. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Karayannides has the floor from SYRIZA. Will you speak from there?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u357	Yes, Mr President, this is where I shall speak. Thank you, Mr President. We're late. And we're too late, and the other guys are too late. And we are late on an issue that is not an issue of acceptance or tolerance of a category of people. It's a question of democracy. Because the universality of human rights does not fit in with asterisks. This is where problems begin. While we all support the universality of human rights, the asterisk enters. Do they all have a right to have a family? No, it says one side, which otherwise supports the universality of human rights. They all have people other than LGBT. We are therefore not all in favour of democracy itself. Indeed, the new KKE side has heard that you are what you are born and that you can't change. I mean, you can't define your gender identity if you're born a man or a woman born. You stay as long as you die. I had the impression that in communist ideology the concept of emancipation, individual emancipation and sociality is at the core of this ideology. Today I forgot what I knew. Because if you don't have the right to determine your gender, your gender identity, if you don't have the right to define who you want to do a relationship, then what do we need the emancipation? I say, then, that people have the right to appoint every ten years, every year and every day their gender identity, and no one can deny that right. Because if we talk about universality of human rights, that is its beginning. I hear the second argument: 'But are private relations and we what do we mind doing what they do?' I'm sorry, but they didn't even ask you what they're going to do in their private relationships. The point is that a relationship between homosexual couples extends to public spheres and gives rise to legitimate interests. So are rights universally applicable to these people? No, they say some, they don't apply to everyone. He can't marry a gay couple. A gay couple can't have kids. Why? Is there someone who has the right to ban the fertility of any person in this country? Where did you get that right? Say it. Where does it come from, that anyone inside the Greek Parliament or within the country can forbid people to have children and raise them? Listen a little: the family base is love. And if there's love, he can raise any pair of couples either he's a homosexual or he's a heterosexual. Because if we take the conditions that still apply, in prisons they are people who have grown up by heterosexual couples. With that logic, do you want to abolish the marriage between heterogeneous couples? Of course not. Nobody wants it. So let's build something that goes on and some people don't want to see it, but most people see it in the face. We can't put these people behind the ravine. We cannot hide them and we cannot deny the existence of thousands of families who have such children. And you know that if we don't do this soon, these kids are left at the mercy of every racist, every homophobic one of them. This must be done quickly. The third issue, which has not, unfortunately, been heard at all. I hope that a number of speakers from here will mention it. What about the trans people? Do you know that in order for these people to enter the House, a Member is going down to get them in? There are no trans people for the Greek state and the Greek state. They can't have the identity they want to have. In fact, in order to be able to change their papers, the following torture of the total redefinition of gender, which has been condemned by the UN Committee on Rights, also applies. We'll do something fast. And at least from the side of SYRIZA the MPs will force as much pressure as possible to change. Because the universality of rights also applies to trans people. This can't be a la carte. I shall say one last thing, which is important, for me personally, and I have told the committees as well. Apart from SYRIZA, my party, and the Potamiou, the slightest word was not heard about this shameful letter produced by the SAPA Board of Directors and is the definition of Nazi ideology, where people are described - listen a little - as 'bospheric exist'. It also says that they are making 'prevention of their human organs'. Do you accept these statements? Do you accept that there are people who do not have human characteristics and so it is easy to force them verbal or physical? Will the other parties take a position on this letter? In addition to the priests, the darknessists who exist and have nothing to do with Christianity, there is also a board of bodies, which I imagine will not represent all the tenants, because the multitudes - most of them - do not accept such ideas. It is a matter of honour to condemn a letter expressing it by a club that is supposed to represent thousands of people. So you accept this nazi letter? Let the parliamentary representatives of the parties take their seats. I conclude with this: the Ambrosios and, unfortunately, the JRC are beating mourning today. They're fine and they're ringing. It's a day of defeat for the darkness, a day of defeat for the conservative, it's a day of defeat for the Middle Ages. It is a day of victory for human rights, and here we are going further.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u358	You're a good anti-communist!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u359	Mr. Karayannides, I don't know who the bell is ringing for, but it'll be a little better to limit this kind of anti-communism. Just allow me this comment. Mr. Zuraris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u360	You falsified what the JRC said. You're an anti-communist and a pervert!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u361	Mr President, on personal grounds, why are you judging, as President, and you do not have that right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u362	Yes, but do not take advantage of my presence in the Bureau to promote your anti-communism. Please, please, on the occasion of your own intervention...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u363	I don't take advantage of anything, but when you say...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u364	Mr. Zurari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u365	That's what he said before the Stepma JRC? Why are you twisting them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u366	Why are you exterminating? Sit down! I heard you quietly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u367	You've read Marxism backwards!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u368	I didn't say a word when you talked. You've read him backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u369	When you say such things, Mr. Karayannides, by the president, when I'm in the Bureau, you'll hear such things.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u370	All your position was for the KIC!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u371	Please, Mr. Covenant!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u372	You distorted communism! Nothing to do with communism!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u373	Let's adopt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u374	Mr. Karayannides, please leave them. You're welcome, Mr. Synchronous. Have a seat. Mr. Zurari, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u375	Mr President, my respects. I'll tell you two stories in five democratic minutes. In about 1947 my father, who is the founder of sexology in Greece - Geschlechtskunde -, a scientific partner until 1923-1925 in Berlin at the Institute of Sexual Research, refers him to the extraordinary permanent court of law in Thessaloniki and into the introductory statement of the soldiers, there is the following to learn: “Because Zouraris the doctor is a communist, he uses as a pretext of supposedly scientific views to decriminate philosophicalism” - homosexuality - “and through the work “Annanism, passion in the light of science” undermines as a communist the militant mind of the army.” Isn't it wonderful? [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] Forty years later, I am a member of the Central Committee of the Interior JRC. My friend, the late man now, Velissaropoulos Andreas, tells me "Listen to you, we made the AKO, which is for the liberation of the homosexual desire of Greece, and I ask you to come in too to show that anyway, it is not a claim that is close, etc." I say, of course, 'thank you.' I was in Paris. I was, however, a member of the Inland JRC, the Central Committee. I am going out of Paris for a meeting of the Central Committee and I see the wonderful, poor Costas Vergopoulou, along with our late Annie Vryhea and Maki Kavouriaris, on the limits of a stroke, and I am told 'Kosta, please don't come to the Central Committee today'. I say: 'Why not come to the Central Committee?' 'Why did they make you Vice-President of the IGC' and I say: 'E, and?' So I come to the Central Committee, and if that were not the case, I had suffered the second, after the Second Pan-Hellenic, brutality when I went to speak, with a surrogate denoted by the members of the Euro-Communism's progressives. Of course some were from Tashkent, they were from Bucharest, old communists, who found me most. And that's where it ended. The third element I will tell you is the following, in 1936, which was the terrible night of Nuremberg, where hundreds of thousands of destitute germans, etc., along with the images of Marx and books, etc., was a professor with glasses burning his books and throwing his pictures and screaming. No one knows him, of course, of the hundred thousand nazis. And I ask my father thirty years later and he says, "All right, baby, are you all right? My teacher was Magnus Hirschfeld, who had the three perfectly bad for the Nazis." He was a communist Magnus Hirschfeld, the founder of the Institute of Sex Research, was Jewish and was homosexual. A communist, Jewish and homosexual: it can't be any worse. Well, I ask you very much to stop this barbarism, to vote together on the Minister's legislation here by the Government or the Government by the Minister and to leave any defects, like some left pit, which usually embroils. I, too, know that as a generosity - I agree with the JRC. I was born EAMO - Bulgarian and communist gangrier, and I don't change. So we must vote as it is, and we have long to fix it. Mercy! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This book is 1921. I'm telling my father's memory. It's my father's first where they are. And this story, that supposedly doesn't change, says it with a wonderful Greek word: Diversity.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u376	Mrs Vaki, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u377	Thank you, Madam President. You'll allow me to use my dentistry time as well. Ladies and gentlemen, on 10 December, the day that the Universal Declaration of Human Rights was signed in 1948 was established as the world day of rights, in order to remember as a lasting reminder that their respect, which is also an inappropriate condition of respect for democracy, does not qualify for notes and asterisks and does not function as a la carte. If there is an invisible thread, linking multiple and seemingly heterogeneous provisions of this bill, this is one: the right to have rights in our human capacity, which is also the front of the Universal Declaration of Rights, according to which all humans are born free and equal to dignity and rights. Ladies and gentlemen, the history of human rights is the long history of their trespasses and of the heroic and sometimes bloodthirsty struggles that are constantly reclaiming them. Behind the abstract man of their various proclamations, behind the legal provisions and articles of this bill, there are two - speed people hiding, people invisible, smuggling, human beings, for some, and excluded. Lives are hiding despised and worthless to experience. This bill throws a little light on the dense darknesss of hate sermons, evicted by the retardation enclaves, struggling within the very society, here in the House and inside the Church. And it comes out of the dark homogeneous couples, who are deprived of their right to enjoy an unintentionally common life, whose relationship is still stigmatized as a blemish and therefore rejected and often subjected to scorn and deportation, which are often transformed into verbal and physical violence. The bells of the country are mourning today at the command of a hierarch. But, even more mourning in our ears is the voices that sing in the Gospel’s own language of love and forget that Christianity introduced the concept of equality of men before God. Scrambles, as I quote - 'roots', 'roots', 'blemishes', 'degraded people of darkness', not only cause waterproofing reflectives, devouring to the tectonic changes that have occurred in human relations, but also accompanied by a language that does not only mean that it is raped: 'These humiliated spit on them, disapprove them, black them! They are not human, they are an abortion of nature!' Ladies and gentlemen, although in universal Ireland 62% voted for the political marriage of homosexuals, Lithuania and Greece are the only countries of the Council of Europe that have agreed only to heterogeneous couples. In November 2013, the European Court of Justice condemned Greece because it considered that the exclusion of homosexual couples from the Cohabitation Agreement infringed the Charter of Human Rights, namely Article 8 on respect for the private and family life of persons, and Article 14 on the prohibition of discrimination in respect of the enjoyment of rights. The legal recognition of the cohabitation agreement, however, has not been speeded up or dictated by our country's European condemnation. On the contrary, it is dictated by the regulatory principle of social peace and democracy, by the constitutionally-founded rights of equality, dignity and the free development of personality. The profound anachronistic objections that the extension of the symbiosis pact to homosexual couples undermines the institution of marriage are contrary to all scientific evidence. Homosexuality is sexual orientation and expression. It's not chosen. Homosexuals create relationships of love and devotion equivalent to heterosexuals. The notion of family is, moreover, structured not only in marriage but also in other de facto family institutions when the parties coexist. But sadness also causes the other widespread and conservative reduction of homosexuality in a private case, which should not concern the state and the public sphere. "Let homosexuals become couples, but do not claim any legitimacy." Colleagues of the JRC, honestly - and I say this without any irony - I cannot understand your approach. Have you become a proprietor party clothed with the cloak of the revolution that you are evangelizing? Have you embossed the cosmopia of the diplopia "smooth - abnormal", "normal - abnormal"? Or does a passport enter the socialist paradise ensure only the heterosexual pairs? Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a private matter to make medical decisions on his partner in the event of sickness. It is not a private matter to claim joint acquired property, in case one is absent, to be able to insure his partner, to take leave together. Furthermore, as a proposal for the future to the Minister - and here I am expressing clearly a subjective view, of course, which has been heard by other colleagues - I must say that I believe that there should soon be a provision for the award of subsequent legislation by means of a judicial decision of the child of one partner of the accord to both partners, since the other parent does not exist or has no parental responsibility. It is sad that these children fall into a legal vacuum and a one-way life to become the institution or welfare. It is incomprehensible to deprive the man who recognizes their parents, the man who raised them, accompanied them to school, relaxed in their illnesses, played with them, followed their first steps. Only totalitarian regimes legislate in order to intervene and determine the private life of the citizens. A democratic state is voting in favour of citizens' equal treatment, because human rights are not the subject of negotiation. In other words, we are not today in favour or against the coexistence pact, but in favour of or against equality. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill - I am going to the other provisions - provides for the establishment of a national council against racism and intolerance. It defines crimes with racist characteristics, overcoming the indisposed, subjective and thus empirically unproved concept of hatred as an incentive and highlighting the specific features of the victim. It also extends the criminal protection of the individual against phenomena of contempt by excluding him from the provision of goods and services. What's at stake in all this? What is at stake is what was once written by philosopher Emmanuel Levinas on tomorrow's Nazism: "The man himself is at stake in man." What is at stake is to put an end to the racist man-eater, nationalist, nazi classification of each immigrant, all-government, gay, drug addicts, communist, non-normal, what does not meet the terms of the mythology of the Blut und Boden, blood and earth, in the category of infectious human being, the existence without life that must disappear. Notable is the provision that eliminates the devastating consequences of the famous typical law, where the protection of the citizen had reached the point of self-criminality and impoverishment of the journalistic criticism because of the threat of treatment by powerful accused persons. I conclude with the articles concerning another great category of 'invisible' prisoners. Incarceration does not mean deprivation of rights. The prisoner is not a homo sacer, i.e. stripped of all rights with its unique characteristics. The temporal treatment of the minor in the face of his disobedience, manifested in his repeated escape from the institution, the placement of a minor in an institution only in the event of acts that would have been an adult, would be a felony, the right to study via electronic surveillance, which is expanded, transformed into prison by a minor feather, from the field of the oxymotor called "young despair" and "grows" dreams in a roadblock on the way back to infraction and in prison. It is worth mentioning, however, that the article concerning the placing on stores of products detained as smuggling items for the needs of incarcerated detainees is also worthy of mention. By guarding the minutes of the committee meetings, I fell upon the position of the President of the Greek Penitentiary Staff Federation. Let me read a small quote: 'Minimum perhaps they could understand the need for a prisoner to have free cigarettes, not to buy them. In prisons there is a tripartite: poverty, violence and impoverishment. We believe that this article on the part of poverty and poverty within prisons, namely the disposal of seized products, gives a great comfort to people who do not have a fate in the sun, to people who do not have a visitor, who do not have a single pair of shoes to literally wear and the social services of prisons are made zetoises to the right and left, so that they can find them a pair of pants and a pair of shoes in order to appear in court." End of the Annex. It is therefore unnecessary, of course, for someone to understand the value of the article that abolishes compulsory donation to NGOs as a precondition for suspending dismissal of the prisoner. Finally - and extremely important - it is the article on babys, which allows the detained mother of a minor child to remain close to him in these critical first years of his life, to remain close to him by serving her sentence or part of her in the form of house arrest. For at least it is regrettable that the first performances of a man's life should be prison, that it should be a wing in the Olive Tree with twenty cells, a hallway, an imperial with frescoes and some plastic horses and without a children's station of up to two and a half years old. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill to be passed gives a voice to those who have not and embracing a long history of fights unjustly, because the very notion of man as the regulatory basis of rights has renovated centuries of social, class and ideological struggles. The bill to be passed is called upon to break homophobic, racist stereotypes and to be measured with images of scapegoats that the barbarity of the crisis has faded. Never a bewildered state legislated taking into account public opinion or waiting for it to mature. On the other hand, society grows only with legislative areas that eradicate deeply established prejudices. If the legislator listened reverently to public opinion and did not listen to the pulses of historical claims, slavery and racial discrimination would never have been abolished, it would never have forged the right to strike, nor would it have been voted on to the coastlines and women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u378	Mr. Michaloliacos has the floor. Mr. Michalop, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u379	As long as it takes. Not very, a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u380	Okay. Ten to fifteen minutes you're entitled.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u381	And less maybe.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u382	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u383	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am amazed that among the anti-grass legislation on the implementing laws of the Memorandum you have suddenly remembered the coexistence agreement. Close the eye in a misguided "progressive" - with many introductorys - audience in order to show that you have another person. But the tolerance, the poverty of the memorandum and all that you have sown in Greek society do not erase with this cohabitation pact or anything else you will bring in the near future. It is, in fact, a tactical clever but obvious. It seems quite clear that your aim is, in the common sense, to put the ball on the platform and disorientate the people from its serious problems. Golden Dawn is contrary to the cohabitation pact and will vote against it. Considers that the institution of the family is a natural institution, a blessed institution from our religion, the Church of Greece, but also from the ancient religion where the protector of marriage and family was the goddess Hera. Some claim that homosexuality is a natural phenomenon. Then why is Article 347 of the Criminal Code, which you would like to modify and speak of rather than ruthlessness? In spite of nature, then, this is the phenomenon, whether you like it or not you like it, and the criminal code legislator himself has predicted it. In the context of what the Minister said, a change or another piece of legislation has not prevented the so-called 'homosexual couples' from adopting children in the future. You are really creating an abortion. Imagine a family with two fathers or two mothers. Who's the father? Who's the mother? All these things are, in your view, results of the French Revolution required for a people's state. What people's state? What Bastilles did you finally speak? You took 35.5% of the Greek people with 45% abstention. You represent less than 20% of the voters and you want to literally dismantle a thousand-year-old institution of the Greek society, the institution of the family, adopting another institution of another family, for allegedly the rights. It is important, however, that the words you use are also important. You use both in the legislature and in the speeches here the word "homos" couples. The word gay has two meanings, according to the dictionary: those of the same sex and those of the same race. Why do you say homogeneously and don't you say straight homogeneously? Perhaps the answer to this is in the Babiniotis dictionary, if open, where it is stated that the word "homosexual" is not a Greek word, but a word established by a German psychiatrist, Richard von Kraft in 1859, and defined homosexuality as a mental illness. The same was true for many years after World War II, even in the United States of America, when, on the basis of pressures - and I will tell you where these pressures were - the United States psychiatrists' union came together and said it was not a mental illness. Where were the pressures from? But it was one of the insurance companies that paid huge sums. Of course, it is important to stress that this morning, outside the Holy Metropolis of Athens, some clothed as priests exchanged kisses and no one was moved about this barbaric challenge against the religious feeling of the Greeks, against the social immoralities, as established for thousands of years. You are also saying - and several speakers have mentioned - that it is darkening and nazi that the message said by the respected Metropolitan Ambrosios, in Metropolitan, whose bells today are bells mourning. I wonder about one thing, because the late Archbishop was content with a word "destruct" and the bells do not mourn all the metropolitan cities of Greece. What kind of conkordato, in this case, is there at the moment, which prevents Greek citizens from expressing their real feelings? If I had here and read the message of Reverend Metropolitan Ambros, I would certainly be referring to the anti-racist law that you voted on. Why didn't you initiate the relevant procedure against Metropolitan? What are you afraid of? Why don't you move on to what the law says? Of course you won't. Article 15 of this bill establishes a National Council against Racism and Misallody, involving specific individuals who are speaking against our national interests, challenging the Treaty of Losan and recognising the Muslim minority of Thrace as Turkish. What kind of national can this council be when people are involved with these principles and with these views? In other words, a thought police, which reminds of Orwell's '1984', is being established. How can you all anti-Russians say that you are anti-Russian when you are racist against us who tell us racists? This is a reasonable gap in which, at last, you need to give an answer. In Article 29 you have a photographic layout, which refers to the piles made by the Golden Dawn only for the Greeks. The article in question says: “...by excluding persons from despair due to the characteristics of race, religion, etc.”. We didn't rule out anyone from despair. We simply wanted to return the money we had received from the Greek state to the Greeks. This article creates an endless absurdity. If, in other words, the Arcadon Association wants to share food with the Bears, will you consider that racist? When the trucks come from Turkey to Thrace and they only share food for Muslims - Mr Sguridis will know that - is this not a pile of hate? You want to change everything. You said you wanted to make a people's state. I told you that you did not speak a Bastille, that no Rovespierre exists among you, nor even a legendary form, such as Saint-Just, who died twenty-five years old and whose ideal was the ancient Sparta. It seems that you have misunderstood things and interpreted them properly and in your political interest. You want to suddenly change an institution that has been in existence for thousands of years, the institution of the family. You also want to change schoolbooks. It is a good opportunity here, where the honourable Minister, Mrs Anagnostopoulou, gave an interview with the newspaper 'Kathemerini', where she tells us school books have to change, because they have been written by order, as they were imposed. I have a very clear objection to this. One cannot say that Constantine Paparigopoulou wrote his story at the command of European romance, when many years before Paparigopoulou wrote the story, Theodoros Kolokotronis himself spoke in Ponyka and said that "we made it a revolution for our faith and for our homeland". It has nothing to do with the Greek Revolution of 1821, which created a state of national and not a people's state with the French Revolution, with the Paris Communauté and all that. Because through the main themes of this change that you want to make in the books of history, it is the racial continuity of the Greeks, I will read again the same words of Theodoros Kolokotronis in Pykkas, where he said: "To the place where we dwell the old Greeks hundreds of whom we descend and receive our name." This was said by Colokotronis forty years before his story was written by Paparigopoulou. You will fail in your plans. You can't drive the country anywhere. You are simply creating a social turbulence, which will lead to the undoing of what you are today legislating. Because you are interested in the people's opinion, why don't you ask the people about this piece of legislation today? Why don't you make a referendum? So we, the Golden Dawn, the Greek nationalists, will vote against your legislation. In addition, we will also ask for a roll-call vote, bringing everyone to his responsibilities. And if for some, the slogan "father, religion, family", for us, is true and will be true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u384	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, 50 students and students and two educational attendants from the Achaia General School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Come on, Mrs. Anagnostopoulos, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u385	Madam President, I will take much less time, not to take time from the Members. After I learned history, let me talk about the bill now. "Soft - in the perfect society - no other burnt like me, of course, will appear and will do it freely." These three lyrics were written by Constantine Kavafis in 1908. They are the last three lyrics of the poem "hidden", one of the most important unaddressed poems of the Alexandrian poet. I belong to the generations that didn't teach Cavafy at school, because he was gay. The ethnometer of the time, the Greek meter and the ethicometer did not allow the contact of the Greek student youth with a great poet who, however, was pervert! Today, about a hundred years later, we are still talking about this 'perfect society'. Have we reached her? No way. But let us accept that today's treaty, the current legislation, is a minimal step in this direction. Let me be clear from the beginning. When we talk about the cohabitation pact and its importance at this particular juncture, we are not primarily talking about a sexual choice. We are talking about lifting an injustice, removing the exclusion of a part of the population of society, and giving it a right. The most common principle, beginning a homophobic school, is usually the famous "I don't care what everyone does in his bed, this is his private subject, but not at all and harms the public space, don't look", "do not do freely", as Kavafis said. But what one does in court, how he is dealt with by hereditary law, health insurance and a number of daily practices are matters of the state. Sexual choice must stop being policed, stop being a parameter that gives birth to second-class citizens. Many people spoke about the rights and the question of the right of homosexual couples. But I will come directly to a crucial issue in this democracy. Democracy is a constant process, a constant dread that pushes society to be constantly targeted and reassured by itself, which is pushing a nation to redefinite itself and its principles, which is pushing a state to widen the boundaries of democracy and throw light on the hidden groups of the population, to those who have been condemned to be in the dark. A democratic state, a democratic society, a democratic nation are the ones that have the power, redefining themselves, being incarcerated, not excluding them, who have the right to demand that the whole of society be at the forefront of history. We are at a difficult stage in the history in which the survival of society itself, of the country itself, is played. At these difficult times, all the forces of society must be in a place of battle, be in the light of day, of public space. Homosexual couples, the homosexual population, are part of this society. Indeed, I would like to highlight one thing. We consider it to be attributed or some believe that the state now or the Minister of Justice gives a privilege, a gift to homosexuals and gay couples. It's wrong, absolutely wrong. The homosexual movement is a many decades' movement, which has met with the movement for democracy, for emancipation of this society. It is not something that appears today and because of a European commitment it is awarded a privilege. It is the right that he has won with years of struggles in the struggles that we were together with other streets. It is one of the parties, one of the aspects of the struggles for democracy in this country. I remember always in the late 1970s, at a very young age back then, when we, on the other hand, met the movement of homosexuals at that time, which was leading us and I think the homosexual movement, in further emancipation, to further osmosis among these aspects of the movements for democracy. Therefore, we do not consider a world excluded, which is currently being granted a right to be granted to it. The cohabitation pact is a right, which has won anyway by itself this movement. The state today is doing nothing but officially rendering it to him. I would therefore like to say that many have spoken of a new order of things that speaks of a rightful society, which speaks of all this. We should have one thing in mind. The new order of things is based on nationalism, the exclusion that leads to privatization. The overthrow of the new order is as large a group of people as possible, second generation immigrants who can take citizenship, homosexual couples who can have their rights, poverty that should be seen in the public space for its rights. All of this is resistance and overthrow of racism, resistance and overthrow to the new order of things. We cannot function under rules of Greek decency, rules of national sovereignty, rules of immorality imposed by some who consider this rule to be the only ones who hold it in their hands. These rules are democratically delimited and many people, many groups have the right to fight for them. To conclude, I would like to say that today's legislation is not just a regulatory move towards a group of our fellow citizens. It is above all a minimum picture of the world we are fighting for, the world we wish to build, an image of freedom, equality and solidarity, an image of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u386	Mr. Theocharis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u387	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is another bill - a lie. Perhaps that's why Mr. Tsakalotos was forced to talk to us about novels, told us about music, told us about art, in an effort to support it. It is fourteen articles - sixteen with transitional provisions - of sixteen and three, plus the three amendments that you will put to sixty-sixteen. 24% of the bill is the cohabitation pact. It's not 24% of your words. We're only talking about the cohabitation pact, but it's going through all the rest. This actually proves how much you care about the cohabitation pact and the LGBTQ community or anything else you bring bills from. The provisions are right - a little bold, we'll talk about them - but it's a simple excuse to get through what you want. Legislation with titles. The title of this bill speaks of the Cohabitation Pact. May I remind you of the humanitarian crisis that you were going to make 200 million, have you given 68 and if you do it, will you run 100 and pass by the other provisions? We see the same thing all the time. We see a single-actic play over and over again. It's not enough time, this act is over, and we can see it again playing and playing again. And what's that one-acting thing? Firstly, you do not like neoliberal policies. First of all, I'd like to give you a parentheses. If you do not like liberalism, love in freedom, what do you oppose? Neocratism, neonarchism, neo-fascism? What, then, is the adversary of neoliberalism, that candy we hear all the time? Enough with fairy tales. So you don't like these policies. Yes, sir. But you're acting faithfully, too loyally, so you don't like them. The Austrian Minister for Finance told you that too. You're the best Memorandum Government ever. You have implemented more quickly and better than any other government, you are the "memorandum" government of all times. That's all he was missing! Bravo! That is why you have just managed the ESM Council to give you the 1 billion. How do you do that? Successive. You succumb to policies that you do not have the power to counter and because you do not have the power to see your voters in the eyes, you bring various painless or painful bills to justify what you do to rights. You steal orders for your own children, some restorations supposedly of injustice, something hired! The Minister cries that he doesn't have a tax office, but the first recruits he's making are cleaners and not tax agents. I'm not talking about rehab. I'm talking about the new recruits of the Treasury. His priorities are in cleanliness, not to catch tax-guns. You are making coups, as with Article 46, so that you can inspire a regime that continues the war of Thanos Papagelopoulos with Mr Athanasios, the victim of the Constitution itself. They took you out, they pulled your ear, you put the tail under your legs and you took back the fake - parallel program. Please bring it. The more you bring the parallel program, the more the promises you have made to the Greek people are made, all the lies you have said are made.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u388	Don't talk that way, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u389	Why? Because I'm saying you're lying? You're lying. You've been playing this one-phase thing since the beginning. Bring it in. Bring it in. For every right you've been demolished, you'll bring us an extremist ideological bill in an attempt to clear and balance, a bill that will pass any progress. For every insurance person who takes the pensioners' money, you'll be dismantling an education, tertiary education, turning us back to the '80s. We will have the same in cooperatives, in justice, in the economy and everywhere. Do not ask me if the destruction you bring will come faster than the agreement you implement or these other bills. I don't know. It's been three months, and yet you've been completely denominationd in the eyes of the world. The Greek people already say you're the greatest liars they've ever been through. The Greek people are right, you are. The Greek people expect no more solution from you. The Greek people are right. No solution will be brought. You're not going to solve anything. I've told you so many times that you're inflamed by the inflatable incense of postmulsion and you're starting to see it yourself. You're flesh out of her flesh. It's true, because that's mostly where you're going. You divide children into ours and theirs, citizens to sympathizers and not to them. What previous governments have done, that is, you continue to do so in the ninth. You separate Greece in two, the ones on the outside, and the ones on the inside. This won't go far, it won't take you away. You've already fallen. I close with two - three specific remarks about the bill. You're disgusting. You have not accepted our amendment in relation to the pact, which you say you are in agreement with. You say you agree and you have not dared. You're hypocrites. You are building up my own Council against Midlands and Racism, without a purpose description, a Council that is not intended, with twenty members who will do nothing. We should simply take the obligation, make fun of the Council of Europe, of the puppets, and take a tick that we did it and go down. Of course you do not respect the efforts and life of the Greek people. You are denouncing the occupations - we do not care if the properties of the Greek people are destroyed - even the blockade of communications with a cloudy'minor social interest'. How will it be judged, on what criteria, you do not tell us. Clipboards. You change the Customs Code with great care and you may also favour the circuits, which under the pretext of detainee prisoners may reload seized cigarettes on the market. Is that right? We are opening a hole. Confiscated cigarettes that don't go for destruction, theoretically go in favour of the most deprived detainees, because, he says, he doesn't put any limitations on it. Anything confiscated by the customs office can be given for the benefit of the most deprived. And, of course, to open a whole "hole" and create opportunities for new circuits. A coup d'état with the disciplinary judges and prosecutors, a real coup d'état. On the ten proposals, on the axes for the relaunching of the country, which I have already made, I said that the Constitution must change, so that there can finally be a distinction of powers. We live in a country where legislative and executive power are united. This has to change.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u390	Now do you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u391	You're the same, Mr. Theonas. That's what I'm telling you. You're the same. If you understand it, that's enough. Not only is it united, but when we spend a period when these two powers are distinguished somehow, we experience it as a period of anomaly, we say the Prime Minister does not control his parliamentary group. We are so addicted and embedded in the fact that executive and legislative power are identical to that which, on the contrary, is the situation that should be the normal one, we feel it as a perverse situation. And, of course, judiciary is hanging under the executive in reality. We saw three in the morning being placed, breaking the hierarchy, going to the 18th and moving forward, all these issues that the executive does on its own and putting the court under custody. And what are you doing? You're still going further. You are setting the court's authority even further, because the President of the Ice Bay, chosen by the Government, can also be a persecutor and judge and exercise his persecutions to the prosecutors, and then he comes, when the prosecutor of course does not comply with the suggestions, to look at the disciplinary misconduct in plenary - I stress in plenary - of the Ice Bay. Same person, then. Step backwards. Our Constitution is the basis of the problem of law power. In our country, the law does not apply, precisely because we have a constitution that does not leave it. Failure confession for the Lagard list with this new amendment you are tabling. What has prevented you, I wanted to know, from doing control? Haven't seventy cases finished, Minister, or more with the previous government, some, even few of yours? How did these checks take place? How have they been completed without this amendment? Why does he need to? What exactly is it about? Why is it so general and vague that the restrictions are lifted? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. So, blackmail product, torture product will be accepted by the courts? All this? And in Greece and our country these lists? Should we limit it to foreign lists? And these lists, will they actually be effective? Do we close the door of cooperation? Switzerland, for example, says that 'if you use exactly the information from the Langard List' - and so we bypassed it, we took the names from the Langard List and passed it from tax control and sieve, and so we passed it - 'we don't work together and give you no other information'. So will it be effective? Have you examined this thing? Finally, why is it with amendment? What changed from the state of the bill? Why so clipboarding? The day before yesterday, the bill was filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u392	I see it's unconstitutional to Article 19 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u393	Here, it could be an anti-constitutional. Mr. Athanasios knows much better than I do. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing down with this. The catastrophe that comes is given. The place urgently needs a great, honest, modern opposition of the 21st century, against this catastrophe that you will certainly bring to the country. Don't worry. Nature despises the void. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u394	Mr. Theochari...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u395	We'll talk about contractors. Don't think so. We're watching your relationship with contractors. We're not leaving it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u396	Mr Sarakiotis has the floor for five minutes. To speed up, to speak as many Members as possible, of course, while respecting the time. Here you go, Mr. Saraciotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u397	Ladies and gentlemen, today's motion for a resolution by the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is another attempt by the Left-Government Government to defend and strengthen keys, for the functioning of democracy, individual constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms, which in today's very difficult economic and social context is more than ever imperative, the need to receive the particular attention of the state. It is a bill governed by this clear intention of the Government to delineate and generally regulate the exercise of rights and, in the light of this, is not a multi-legislative bill, but a rich bill consisting of provisions with a philosophy and orientation to promote and further strengthen the free democratic expression, the enjoyment of equality and equality by all citizens. Both the spirit and the letter of this bill, my conviction is that it is moving in the right direction, which, in any case, confesss either directly or indirectly to a large part of the anti-population parties. Its first capital is held by the much-discussed provisions on the new coexistence agreement. This abolishes the chronic discrimination against homosexual couples and their exclusion from self-evident constitutionally guaranteed equality and a prohibition of any discrimination based on sex and sexual orientation of the individual. These provisions reform an already existing institution in our country, extending it to homosexual couples, recognizing rather an existing social reality that has long been overcome by the legislator, thus restoring the principles of equality, the free development of personality and respect for integrity, which have pre-empted it. Greece is coming late and after its condemnation two years ago by the European Court of Human Rights, to adopt it for several years now legislation in most European countries recognition, a form of formalisation of the relationship between homosexual couples. A favoured democratic society cannot tolerate the resurgence of its citizens to third-class citizens because of their sexual orientation and deprive them of basic constitutional rights. I therefore believe that the arrangements introduced by this draft law with regard to the Cohabitation Pact are necessary. However, a coordinated effort was taken by opposition parties and the press, in order to reduce the value of this bill, focusing on public debate only on issues related to the new pact. However, it should be noted that a vast majority of the articles contained in this draft law do not concern the pact, but other important interventions and amendments of both the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure, imported innovative provisions of anti-racist legislation, while particular reference is needed to the amending provisions relating to civil liability of the press. From the number of these new regulations, I would particularly like to focus on those of the fifth chapter of the bill, which are moving towards the abolition of the well-known and typical law that has been severely criticised by the majority of the journalistic world - and the information in general - as a law which is brutally affecting constitutional freedom of expression and of the press, as an indirect censorship mechanism, which refers to other times. For the first time, a redress procedure is introduced or the possibility of simple compensation for citizens in the event of out-of-court reports, which is expected to make a significant contribution to the decongestion of the courts from the accumulation of the cases in question, which will now be more feasible and more appropriate to resolve without recourse by the defendant in the courts concerned. The abolition of the minimum compulsory financial compensation due to the moral harm of the person wronged by the owner of the form substantially alters the very strict scheme introduced by the formal law. The Left Government, despite the coordinated front of disinformation and participatory information against the overwhelming majority of the press and the other media in the country during the entire period of its governance, has once again made it possible to defend the supreme public interest in strengthening freedom of press and the supreme constitutionally-built right to freedom of expression as a supreme democratic conquest. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill deserves to have your broad acceptance and to be voted for by a large majority as a sign of the commitment of the Greek Parliament to the self-evident democratic freedoms and rights that it owes it to defend, by constantly legislating with a view to society and listening to the real needs of the times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u398	It is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-two students and students and six teachers from the General School of Continental Achaias (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Danellis has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u399	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, bills are not supermarket products. We cannot vote for one and have two or more as an offer. Today we are talking about a bill which only 20% of its articles really concerns this bill. The remaining 80% of the articles refer to other issues relating to amendments to the Criminal and Penal Code, as well as to the Code of Criminal Procedure, but also to other provisions relating more generally to the functioning of justice. A few days ago, in this Chamber, Mr. Kontonis attacked me with heavy characterizations when I referred to provisions that "dog-horse" the bill on the cohabitation agreement brought from the back door and relate to your privileged audiences. The government insists that it closes its eyes to naughty children. I am referring to those condemned for terrorist acts, such as in the case of Article 42, but also to minority groups, as in the case of Articles 27 and 28, which, on the pretext of fighting for a major social interest, as you say, can hamper and paralyse the lives of citizens every day. I would like to remind you, of course, that it is your job - and more broadly, of defending the wider social interest and not of minority groups with which you are systematically flirting. I wonder: In the way you legislate, what judge can judge which protesters are defending major social interests and who are not? In Article 46, not so obvious paragraph 3, what kind of coup is it that you are trying in justice? You are taking advantage of the Presidents of the Supreme Courts with respect to their colleagues. Is the same judge who seeks to exercise disciplinary powers in parallel, being the President of the institution who judges him? In what third world country, what totalitarian regime occurs in such situations? Ladies and gentlemen, politicians must open up streets and convince society about them and not care for their ears. Once again it is revealed that our social taboo and stereotypes feed hypocrisy and prevent society from growing up. We are today very late in condemning the European Court of Human Rights after the country has been condemned to the European Court of Human Rights. Where to talk about homonymous marriages, when even for the political marriage of heterosexuals, we cannot see that another thing is an administrative act, a civil contract between two people, who decide to live together and another thing, the self-evident choice of each religion to be blessed by the mystery of his union from the Church. For this simple reason, the political marriage has never been competitive with religious. Potami from the first moment of its establishment has referred to the need to introduce such regulations into Greek legislation without asterisks, footnotes and exceptions. That is why we have tabled and even now call on you to support the amendment which the whole of the legislation goes a step further and to take care of the children, which we must protect. It is known that many co-violent homosexuals are either natural parents or have adopted children long before they begin their cohabitation. Children living in such families are forced, in the event of their natural or positive parent being lost, to separate the family environment and to end up at the worst in an institution, while at the best in a distant relative with whom they have nothing to do with it. To gain a homogeneous contract or a symbiosis of rights on his or her partner's child constitutes essential care for the child alone. Ladies and gentlemen, it is disappointing to reveal that a left-wing government is subjecting to the pressures of its homophobic right-wing partner and bleaking in the goals of the project. The left always left space in diversity and was not afraid to clash with those conservative voices insisting on regression. In addition, democracy in the rights of minorities is being tested. The left government of the country avoids being opposed to intolerance and fantasy - supposedly - hierarchs of the religion of love, who call on believers to violence against our fellow humans, but also to politicians who support the right to diversity. These hierarchs, however, have no comprehensions to bless any marriage of purpose and economic resentment. Thus, marriages of strong over - age and youthly girls do not disturb our useful customs. But it is well known, ladies and gentlemen, that extremist empathy and intolerance usually hide a syndrome of extreme oppression and non-reconciliation with ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u400	Mr. Cryazides has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u401	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, with the draft law of the Ministry of Justice under discussion, the existing legal framework for the cohabitation agreement is being revised in two directions. Firstly, upgrading the legal and qualitative characteristics of the cohabitation agreement, which I will repeat in advance is essentially transformed into a form of married cohabitation, i.e. in a form of political marriage. Secondly, it is possible to conclude that between persons of the same sex and, therefore, from the first observation I made, there is the possibility of a specific form of marriage between the same sexes. In particular, the provisions of the draft law reverse the classic form of the cohabitation agreement, which now, as one of its imminent legal assets, hereditary and other consequences, is transformed into a form of contractual marriage whose characteristics come out of the scope of injurious law and are fully brought into the scope of family law. Incidentally, the revision of the current legislation with the Government's legislative interventions tends in the direction of establishing the coexistence agreement as a form of alternative political marriage that is more flexible and - let me be - easier and more attractive. This is because by a mere act before a notary, without compliance with the wordings required by religious or political marriage, these typical consequences arise as if the subjects of the law had been married. I cannot give a reply directly because I do not know the true will of the authors of the bill. I can see, however, that this legislative initiative has a clear impact on the standard form of marriage, a traditional and well-established form of establishment of relations between couples. Minister, as I have said in committee, the liberalisation of law, the recognition of rights to the subject of law and respect for the individual finds us all in agreement. However, we do not agree that the removal of classical institutions directly or indirectly cannot be found in a way which affects a social and historical reality. The introduction of legal provisions initiated by at least a curious reform concept for the revision of traditional institutions does not go hand in hand with the social reality and responsibility that we all have as politicians to discipline and protect what we have inherited. I'm explaining. The Greek Constitution in Article 21 expressly recognises the family as the foundation of the maintenance and promotion of the nation, emphatically indicating that marriage, motherhood and childhood are under the protection of the state. What are we now trying to do? Unfortunately, we are attempting to be like the marriage and the consequences of social coexistence that are far from true and time-consuming regulatory content of the term. But why? With what feasibility and what benefit? Irrespective of the above, I would like to stress that the entire upgrading of the cohabitation agreement actually confers absolutely similar rights on the same sex couples. No one in this Chamber has raised or raised questions about the right to self-determination of each or the free choice of a love partner in this Chamber. This is absolutely legitimate in our Constitution in the context of the free development of personality. However, it is not legitimate that the immediate recognition of rights of a substantial nature, which, as I have explained before, are specific to marriage, is not present. Our society cannot and cannot tolerate such provocative assumptions, not because homosexual couples do not have equal rights, which we all recognise, but because the structure of our society, its perception and composition does not tolerate the abolition of marriage as a heterosexual union, which as a family, and secondly, the continuation of existence. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, society tolerates and accepts diversity. But this diversity cannot be tolerated in parallel and evenly with its marriage and consequences. It is no coincidence, moreover, that the European Court of Justice itself - and here again and again with various misinterpretations and misinterpretations - clearly notes in Article 12 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights that it explicitly recognises the right to marriage only to persons of different sexes. The relevant provision states that 'whether the husband and woman are entitled to a marriage and to establish a family according to them by virtue of the right of national law'. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the changes made to the cohabitation agreement are neither necessary nor justified. The only thing the Ministry of Justice had to do was keep up with the country's international obligations and make a single provision of the existing family law. But that's not what he chose. He chose the solution to review the legal framework of the cohabitation agreement by upgrading it in the form of married cohabitation. Unfortunately, this is the harsh reality. Under these circumstances, it is not possible to make it a rule in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u402	Thank you, too. We will give the floor to the Minister for a moment for some legislative improvements that are of interest to everyone. How much time do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u403	I think a minute and a half is enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u404	I don't give time then.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u405	Well, three of them have already been announced. One is the abolition of Article 347. After the words ‘Article 347’ the word ‘PK, Criminal Code’ is added. The second was the list of bodies involved in the Commission against Racism, where it is added, as the GFCM and the ADED announced earlier. The third is the reform of Article 12 of the Cohabitation Pact, which I have read previously, and I repeat the wording: 'Other provisions concerning claims by spouses, as well as claims, benefits and privileges vis-à-vis third parties or the public, shall apply accordingly to the parts of the Pact'. The latest legislative improvement is added to Article 48 of the plan and concerns the possibility of judicial officers in their promotions, whether they are absent or are less than the number of officials who may be promoted in category B, because there is no corresponding number, to be able to promote category C officials.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u406	Minister - I am sorry, Madam President, that I interrupt - it would be fair for them to enter, not only if they do not exist, but also for the IGC.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u407	And DU. I will read this word to you for word: ‘If there are no judicial officers with a degree of at least 2’ who have applied for candidates, or if they are less than the number required in paragraph 4, they shall be judged for selection and judges with grade C.’ If the number of former ones is not sufficient, they shall be judged for selection and judges of the IC category, grade 2 or III, of those who have more service time at these grades.’ So all charges are covered, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u408	Yes, but you say that if the first ones are not enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u410	Why? Let it be like this, if there are...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u411	You must present them, Minister, to be distributed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u412	Mr Venizelos has the floor and Mr Kourakis then. Here you go, Mr. Venizelo, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u413	Ladies and gentlemen, the House has had to legislate for some time now to extend the cohabitation agreement, in line with the relevant case law of the European Court of Human Rights. We sought it in the previous House. The association of forces did not allow this to happen, and we are pleased that this is now being done. However, the draft law, which contains in its first articles the Covenant on Covenant, has become a vehicle in which various regulations, some of which are institutionally problematic, are being taken into account, not to say insulting. Before that, there is another political issue, which is the relationship between the two government partners. SYRIZA - ANEL Conflict on the Coexistence Pact, what does it say to us? That this government is deservingly heirous? Or is it fundamentally homogenous and that the so-called objections to issues of moral or national sensitivity actually work as a pretext and an alibi to implement a policy, which has a small parliamentary majority, but such as to allow the existing closed power group to manage it, to be shared without any programming and institutional guarantee? They welcome - I see - the SYRIZA MPs because they have a field of disagreement with the members of the Independent Greeks, the Covenant on Covenant, human rights. Do they remember to vote together, that they jointly manage major issues of democracy and the rule of law? Doesn't that bother you aesthetically, constitutionally, that state of affairs? Is this a democratic situation transparent? I say this because the issues of constitutional morality have now been given definitive answers historically acquired. We therefore have no dilemmas, because these have long been answered at European and international level. In our country, however, there is a question of democracy and of the rule of law, there is a question of political culture and one of the causes of this issue is the coexistence of SYRIZA - ANEL in this government. Now the truth, too, is that in all the side-effects, beyond economic policy, where there is a known ambiguity, choices are made which do not shape the conditions for the take-off of the country, which, with the exception of the cohabitation pact, are deeply counter-reformist, and on this basis, legislative intervention in the field of justice is being built. The provision extending the individual disciplinary powers of the Presidents of the Supreme Courts is a provision that reduces the level of protection of the internal independence of judicial officers and prosecutors. It is not possible that the judiciary, which is governed by the Constitution and by law, chairs the bodies, which are the Supreme Judicial Council, the Disciplinary Board in most cases and the Chamber of the Supreme Court there, should have individual competence to initiate the disciplinary procedure. I do not understand why this has to be done, why judicial associations should be complained, as the Association of Prosecutors first complains, and why a message should be sent that levers and mechanisms should be put in place to control the judiciary, and that it should be under restricted custody. We constantly have government insinuations, interventions, the notorious statement on legal coups. The message is simple: Ladies and gentlemen of the judiciary and prosecutors, the government is following you, assessing you, classifying you, classifying you and considering you moving properly when you are moving in harmony with the governmental will, the express or the alleged one. This is institutionally creepy. We have also seen it in the way in which the choice was organized in the leading positions of justice. One place was covered 28 June at midnight, at the same time as the imposition of capital controls, the other months later. These aren't random. All those attending Jerusalem know what has happened. We have now arrived at a request for the annulment of a received judiciary of the Council of State before the Council of State for the selection of Vice-Presidents of the Council of State. Regardless of the issues, his procedural admissibility, there is a big issue: a judicial officer feels that he should seek judicial protection against the government for the choice of head of justice. Today, we have an amendment that effectively abolishes a very critical, fundamental provision of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Article 177a on the probationary prohibitions, namely the rule of law within the jurisdiction of the financial prosecutor and the prosecutor of corruption, as if there were no validity of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. An amendment signed by the Deputy Minister of Justice alone, Mr Papagelopoulos, without the signature of the Minister of Justice. It has indeed an exclusive legislative initiative by the Deputy Minister, but on matters that are closely related to his responsibilities, namely organisational issues of an operational nature in relation to corruption and transparency, not matters of amending the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure. We also need a co-existence agreement between Mr Paradigopoulos and Mr Papagelopoulos. Some people think that this provision is about the famous assumptions on the Lagard list or on the Rhine-Westphalia list. It's not like that at all. If that is the case, then there is an indirect interference to the benefit of persons who are injurious in this matter, an intervention in pending proceedings, which I imagine will not want to do or be charged to the Government. I must also remind you here that in 2008, a time when certain people played a very specific role, we had a radical amendment to Article 177a of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is now being amended from the table, only for a category of cases, without the signature of the Minister of Justice. In 1996, with the cooperation of Mr. Paramadopoulos as a professor and the late Ioannis Manoledakis, he was introduced to the Code of Criminal Procedure, on my own initiative - I was then Minister of Justice - Article 177a, which said that "the means of evidence obtained by criminal offences or through them are not taken into account for the declaration of guilt, not for the purpose of proving innocence, the imposition of penalties or measures of procedural coercive action, except in the case of felonies threatened by life sentences and a specific reasoned decision of the court on this matter". In 2008, this provision, by means of a legislation on the protection of private life in general and the confidentiality of communications, was the subject of a law on the protection of private life and the confidentiality of communications. 3674/2008, it has become very general, indeed. ‘Indicative means obtained by or through criminal offences shall not be taken into account in the criminal proceedings’, without any further clarification. If the Minister of Justice wanted to, he could restore Rule 177a, in general, to all criminal cases, in its original form. What is happening now, however, is really unjustified and is absolutely not serving anything. For there is a complete lifting of banking, tax and insurance secrets since 2011.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u414	Mr. Venizelo, your time has already doubled. Please shorten.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u415	SYRIZA did not vote for this waiver of confidentiality then. In any case, we have said that, regardless of the evidence of prohibitions and the use of evidence, there is information which comes to the competent authorities and is the starting point for an investigation, with legal means.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u416	Does Mr Venizelos have a time-lag, Madam President? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u417	As you know, Article 19(3) of the Constitution imposes an absolute ban on cases of infringement of Article 19, on the confidentiality of communications, on asylum and on Article 9a, which is private life and personal data. So there is no need for specific cases. If that were necessary, the initiative should have been taken months ago. Another is the case, which leads to the abolition of fundamental guarantees of the rule of law within the competence of a Deputy Minister, and in this way we have a change in basic legislation of criminal law, both substantive and procedural, which is the country's applicable constitution. This is not a good thing for the level of institutional protection, for the level of protection of individual rights. Because there is also Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, there is the case law of the Court of Justice of Strasbourg, and these cannot be treated by the way at last, with a delay, without debate in the committee, without scientific scrutiny, without a debate in the scientific community of specialists, without any opinion being given by the courts. And I wonder, was this requested by judges? When and how?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u418	Mr. Venizelos, you have exceeded time too much. You can't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u419	Are the courts, the administrative fullheartedness, on this subject? So, behind a provision which we are in agreement with - such as the cohabitation agreement - we are unfortunately hiding interventions which are at least suspicious and catalytic of the rule of law in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u420	Thank you. Please stay in five minutes to talk to more Members. Mr. Kourakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u421	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the debate on the coexistence agreement gave a good opportunity to break prejudices and stereotypes. A number of myths have been heard - although other colleagues have said so, I would just like to give a different dimension - that homosexuality is an option. I have to tell you as part of my scientific capacity that it is not a gene matter, it is not a matter of social upbringing, that is, whether boys play with dolls or not. It is a very complex psychosocial process - which has not been answered by science, and I doubt it will ever be given with its complexity - where the individual feels at some point that he is being pushed into a very specific sexual orientation. It's not an option. Second myth. A homosexual relationship cannot be a family as the family is intended to have children. And even more we heard that the right to childbirth presupposes the presence of a man and a woman. On this point I would like to ask a few questions: what about in vitro fertilisation - as regards women - and women who are on their own who can have a child in this way? What about sperm donors who a woman uses and possibly herself? What about the egg donation? You understand that we are living in a new era that changes the form and structure of the family as we knew it. After all, the European Court of Human Rights has ruled that family ties are not only created through marriage but also through other relationships recognised by law or not. Just think about what happens with the single parent families, where the other sex is lacking as a model and others that we have heard. At this point I would like to tell you that the cohabitation pact and the political marriage of the homosexuals not only threaten, but also broaden the institution of the family, as has been done in the past with other forms of family, such as single parents. The cohabitation pact and marriage recognize the fact that thousands of people live in family life and give it institutional status. Those who invoke family protection to attack homosexual couples are simply those conservative circles that want to return to the past family with the woman in the kitchen and the man in a role that is strong. Their constant risk toward any progressive change has not been verified. On the contrary, the family in its many forms is being made stronger, and this will now happen. As regards the amendment tabled by Potami, I would like to say, Minister, that I too approve that for children who have been acquired from a previous relationship or during a family, the possibility of parental care, child care, so that we can resolve a matter essential to the child itself. I was pleased that you said in your position that you were adopting it, but there are provisions that should be extended to the Shetero-subsidy Pact or to the marriage, as we know it and need a technical treatment. I would like to believe that in the next bills this issue will be settled very soon. Third myth. The sex you get with your birth and it doesn't change. Here I must tell you that our country has an originality, which ranks at least in third world countries. A person who has a different gender identity - for example, a person with male genitals who feels totally psychologically, socially, essentially, nuclearally as a woman - in order to be able, according to our legislation, to register the other sex he wishes, should undergo surgery, i.e. sterilisation, i. amputation, that is to say, to lose forever the possibility of childbirth. You realize that's incomprehensible. At some point, Minister, the issue of gender identity must be dealt with in accordance with the individual's own self-determination. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you that today we are not doing thanks to our fellow citizens who have homosexual orientation, but we are restoring a falsification of the equivalency that has troubled them for many years. I would also like the Greek Parliament to apologise for the fact that we have been late for so many years. Ladies and gentlemen, all of you who are feeling hostile or even neutral against this piece of legislation would say that if your children, boys or girls or grandchildren, if you are older, turn up to be gay - I would like to give some advice, if you allow me, as a pediatrician and a university doctor - to treat them with love, to protect them from smuggling and cannibalism. If your son or daughter feels the psychological need of belonging to another sex, namely living and acting like a woman or as a man, show love and compassion and protection. What the state is doing today is protection. You can do it individually. Don't let him get gased up, like they did at the trainer at a school. And when he later wants to make a family of the same family proud, then tell him that you, too, participated in this parliament that voted for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u422	Thank you, Mr. Kourakis. Mr. Papachristopoulos, would you like to speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u423	Not now, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u424	Mr. Carras has the floor then. Mr. Carras, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u425	As much as you want. Shall we say seven to eight minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u426	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u427	Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from the centre of the Union of Centres]] We have also told the committee that we are voting on this bill in principle. Our concern, however, is greater in our vote. What do we mean? We need to respond to why we vote on it. Greek society has some traditions, has a series of historical advances and faces modern challenges. So we have the church marriage, which is our tradition, we have the marriage that the Church spiritually tells and breaks up spiritually after divorce, we have the political marriage and then we already have the cohabitation pact, which we today extend its scope to homosexual couples. For the religious marriage we have to say this: We respect him, we recognize the transcendent need of the religionists and recognize the usefulness that he gave on the historic route of Greece. So the question arises: What attitude should the Church take to this issue which is currently being introduced for discussion? I have been very close to the views of the representatives of the Sacred Session and of the Union of Family Law. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that I was really concerned about positions. I came to a conclusion that satisfied me that, that is, the Church is now placed at the very beginning "the Caesar's Caesari and the goddess of God". Therefore, I did not make a position that the Church as far as it is not directly concerned, at least the modern Greek Church, is placed negatively on relations. I am using this expression which I have retained, namely, 'we do not have a negative attitude to relations between citizens and the state'. So we believe that this bill that comes does not affect the traditions of Greece and the voices heard in the previous days or set up, we must reject them. And I'm talking about half-global voices, which stood by leading the country to the destruction or that the country will be squeezed away. Next issue. What's the other form of marriage? The political marriage, which is a state-of-the-marriage relationship. He's got another dimension. The cohabitation pact - I am indeed satisfied with the title, which says here that it is not just a cohabitation pact, it is also a exercise of rights - gives me the answer and enables me to vote positively on the reason that it separates the overriding role of religious marriage, separates the public nature of the political marriage to which the state is intervening and separates the phrase 'right exercise' from a civil law, which we cannot rule out from any person, when he wants to exercise, to what extent he will exercise it. We therefore think that this is a response to many concerns. I do not want to make a broader comment. I would just like to say that at this point, I see that most of the parties in this House are good for the climate. I did not, however, want this bill to be led into a opposition krone, which has emerged between the parties to the conflict, which the ANEL side - I shall say - safely oppose something that they know will be passed anyway. I think that it was an inappropriate position, and that was a temptation, because in this sense I will believe that they are holding votes on a matter of dignity, on an issue that must be the law of the state. I am now putting myself on those points of the bill. I have no objections either to the Centroon Association or to the first ten articles. They give me an answer to the bill that they do not introduce the concept or danger or pose a risk of being adopted by homosexual couples. Why am I saying that? So I read that it speaks of parents, that it speaks of father and mother, which means we are leading to the traditional concept of the Civil Code. And here to remember Modestinos, whom our lawyers have remembered very much in recent days in connection with the definition of marriage: "Male and female relevance and integration of life all." Therefore, in our view, as we interpret the law, it does not embodies a risk of being adopted by homosexual couples. So I move on to a point on which I would like to ask the Minister to stand, which makes me an opposing point. It's Article 14. We amend the provisions of the Civil Code and put in the word "coding" by the marriage that exists or by the cohabitation agreement. I am very concerned about this: should you, Minister, change the provisions of the Civil Code or suffice to mention that, in analogous application of Articles 1354, 1462 and so on, the cohabitation agreement is covered? I think that, at the very last moment, this thought is of interest. For the Council against Racism and Mid-Latinity, I have been placed here, and I have even understood that my opinion has been accepted in relation to committees - with another wording - that the Council itself can distribute its work. But do we have a serious objection to justice and, in particular, to Article 46, if I am not mistaken, which, in our view, violates a basic principle of law, which is: The one who is prosecuting is also judged at the end? It is a little too much of a view and I think we should also call for the regulation to be deleted that the President of the Ice Bay, the Presidents of the Supreme Courts to exercise the disciplinary procedure, since they are also presided over by the Higher Disciplinary and Higher Judicial Court. If it remains, we say that this provision will be voted against. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall finish, Madam President, I will not abuse. The press, etc., we have said that we agree in principle. We believe that that rehabilitation provision is not complete. It favours more publishers and the press than the offended one, but it will be seen by the courts how it works. In conclusion, I would like to turn to the amendment tabled by Mr Papagelopoulos. We have learned along the way that there are evidence of prohibitions which are considered to protect individual rights. We are coming today and we are introducing a further breakdown in the evidence of prohibitions, Minister - and I address you as a master of Criminal Law - that we are reducing the power of evidence of prohibitions. And what, in my opinion, is being put here? Anyway, how will he be judged? Will it be judged by the final decision whether there is a need to lift the evidence of prohibitions? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. It's a legal matter. I am making use of the time of the amendments. Here, then, I will give you an example. We've got the Lagard list, which in our view has been banned, and we've told it. It was completely inappropriate for the policy to be pursued. Anyway, don't stand on this. And the court comes to decide whether it will have to go beyond the evidence and use the unlegally acquired to end up guilty. Is that not a first step, Minister? Shouldn't he say it in a pre-trial? Or should the court be kept and told at the end? If, therefore, it is whether it takes an indirect decision that can be withdrawn or reached the end without a decision, we have a classic case of violation of 177 and 177A's Code of Criminal Procedure and I would not like Mr. Paradise to be the one, who will triumph the basic principle of criminal proceedings. If you insist on this amendment, we say that we will vote against it, not only for reasons of principle, in the way it entered, but we consider that it violates the classic right to protect the defendant, which everyone has. We cannot divide into offenders on the Lagard list, to offenders on the list, said Mr. Venizelos, Westphalia and Rhineland. I didn't know that list, I have to say it. We must protect them all, or we must abandon the provision, because the Financial Prosecutor, whether you like it or not, will override this provision so that it can function. It won't work. I think, therefore, that at this point we have a violation of procedural and substantive rights of criminal law and we state our complete opposition. In other words, we will be placed on the articles in particular. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u428	Madam President, may I have the floor for two minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u429	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u430	Thank you very much. Two points I think remain as topics which are being discussed and for which I think there are explanations or - in any case - that there are misunderstandings from those who put them. One is the disciplinary authority founded in favour of the President of the Ice Bay, the President of the Council of State and the President of the Court of Auditors. It is clear from the Statute of the Court of Justice. Article 97(5)(c) states: ‘They may not participate in a disciplinary board or a court for the purpose of deciding a disciplinary action (c) those who have exercised the disciplinary action or have acted in interrogation in the same disciplinary action’. There is therefore no possibility that the assessor and the assessor will be in a confusion of qualities. I would also like to remind you that today there is a person formally superior, such as the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, who is calling for persecution and a person formally inferior, such as a Vice-President, to be what he judges. As far as the amendment, tabled by Mr Papaggelopoulos, is concerned, I would like to say that, in any case, the use of those evidences is envisaged, for which the Prosecutor of Corruption and the Financial Prosecutor has already provided access. These were already institutionalised. It is not as a reform of Article 177 in Criminal Procedure, but as a reform of the special criminal laws, which introduced the two special prosecutors. The use will be judged in the referral and in the trial, i.e. either by the Council, which refers either to the court, which is judging and to the weighting criteria, so that there is no suspicion of exceeding the limits, which are in favour of protecting against illegal evidence, namely that the damage caused by acquisition should be significantly lower in the nature or extent of the damage caused by the act under investigation, that proof of the truth is impossible and that the act by which the evidence was obtained will not affect human value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u431	Madam President, excuse me. I want to ask the Minister a legal question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u432	Please, Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u433	Minister, excuse me. The provision proposed by the amendment by Mr Papagelopoulos, which I see you are now adopting, refers to Article 17a of Law 2523/1997, as amended in 2011 and applies to Article 2 of the Law. Date of birth: 4022/2011. In fact, it is about the complete lifting of tax, stock exchange and bank secrets. What does this amendment add to the far-reaching evidence and research capacity of the prosecutors with these provisions? With your immersion, can you tell me what he adds?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u434	Can I answer that, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u435	Of course, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u436	It adds procedural steps to the possibility of accessing and using these documents, not only in the first investigation procedure, but also in the Supreme Council procedure, as can be used in the court.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u437	But is that possible? Excuse me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u438	All right, Mr. Venizelo, we won't have a dialogue right now. The answers were given.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u439	It is possible, Minister, to tell me that what has been the case so far, that is to say another rule in the procedure and another in the main proceedings, now that this is...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u440	Can we now have this debate on the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u441	But you are a well-founded lawman, Madam President. Is that an answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u442	All right, but now this amendment has been adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and four educational sessions from the 3rd General High School of Argyroupolis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Papaliou has the floor for five minutes, and then Mr Fortsakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u443	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill contains provisions, chapters relating to the area of justice. First of all, the draft law establishes the cohabitation pact for homosexual couples. New institutions, such as the National Council against Racism and Misallody, are being established, but also on issues relating to citizens' freedoms and penitentiary treatment, particularly with regard to minors. Its philosophy is inspired by a spirit of freedom and a reformist and not of revenge for the prisoners, so that the sanction is replaced by the preparation of their reintegration into society. Its provisions guarantee the free development of personality and the unrestricted and free exercise of individual rights. In this context, I will focus on specific regulations of the bill. In addition to the co-existence agreement, Greece has been convicted by the European Court of Human Rights, because it had not institutionalised the conclusion of a co-existence agreement and of homogeneous couples, its establishment is self-evident and therefore required for reasons of equality, equality, free development of personality and respect for human dignity. For racist crimes: The introduction of objective criteria to characterise a crime as racist is important because this makes it easier to implement the relevant regulation. To date, it has been a prerequisite for a crime to be characterised as racist, that is to say, 'due to hatred', a concept which refers to an indisposed attitude that is not easily proved. The bill provides for the specific nature of the crimes with racist characteristics and for the choice of which it has been chosen because of its specific characteristics, which must also result from the specific circumstances in which the crime was committed. Specification essentially focuses on the objective and perceptible fact of the choice of targeting the victim, due to its specific characteristics and the specific circumstances under which the crime was committed. In addition, the bill provides for the tightening of penalties and the ban on the granting of suspension, but also for the non-responsibility of the above-mentioned violation of human dignity by specific collapsing and the voluntary supply of goods or services, which preclude persons from being despised, due to the particular characteristics of the race, colour, national or ethnic origin, genetic achievements, religion, disability, sexual orientation and gender identity. And I come to the chapter of the blockade of traffic. The bill attempts to classify penalties according to the intensity of the blockade. In accordance with Article 27, the penalty shall be differentiated according to the duration of the blocking. In addition, the criminal offence of negligent committing the offence in question shall be abolished. And with the regulation of Article 28 of the bill, the court may relieve the perpetrator of the sentence, if it is convinced that there is no need to impose a penalty if the perpetrator has put the act in order to defend a wider social interest according to the legal improvement of the Minister of Justice. Without a doubt, with the provision of Article 28 for exemption from penalty, it proves a different approach to social struggles. The citizen who is protesting, struggling, claiming is not treated by definition as a criminal offence perpetrator. Of course, the wording that the citizen is the act of defending a wider social interest means weighing goods which are conflicting with the court, which is not easy. In this case, the weighting is between, on the one hand, the right to assemble and, on the other, the right to move and communicate citizens. Therefore, this provision could be reformed in such a way that it would be possible to exempt from the penalty by a judicial judge if the offence was committed in the context of social struggles, since this is actually the case. Therefore, reference to social struggles clarifies and simplifys things. In other words, the legislative improvement which defines as a criterion the insignificant duration of the blockade in order to be judged unpunished is positive. Finally, I will refer to the amendment of the provisions on civil liability in the press. Under the Constitution, the right of the person concerned, by inaccurate hybrid, defamatory or broadcasts, to reply and to make a complete correction, is provided for, but also for the corresponding direct transmission of the reply or publication. With regard to the amendment of the provisions on civil liability in the press, there is an attempt to reconcile freedom of expression and freedom of press, fundamental freedom in the context of democracy, and the protection of the value of citizens. The new legislative regulation abolishes the required minimum compulsory financial satisfaction as a result of moral harm, contrary to the principle of proportionality, and calls on the relevant media within 10 days or in the next issue of receipt of the written extrajudicial invitation to restore the insult by registering a text indicated by the affected person. This is how fairer and more substantial the damage caused by false, hybrid or defamatory articles is to be rectified by the eventual lifting of the attack by the media. If, following the reply and correction, the moral harm is restored, the relevant claim referred to in Article 932 A.K. shall not be retained. By way of exception, the claim in question shall be maintained if it follows a fact of major importance for the individual, family, professional and social progress of the person concerned, in which case the restoration of the person concerned shall not be considered complete and the claim for financial compensation shall be maintained in the known way.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u444	Finish it, Mr. Papaliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u445	I shall conclude, Madam President. In Article 37(2), the term ‘major event’ is inserted for the individual, family, professional, social progress of the person concerned, so that there is a possibility of claiming financial satisfaction due to moral harm and the restoration of the insult is not considered to be complete. I would say that in this case it could be added to the upcoming fact and the fact that goes back to time. In any case, according to all the above, this bill is a spirit of freedom and gives the breath of democracy and of social peace. As a result, the provisions of the draft law on the one hand operate in pedagogical terms and, on the other, may be a pretext for a wider overall reform of criminal and penal law. Thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u446	Mr Fortsakis has the floor, and then Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor for five minutes. I would ask you to be consistent in your time so that many Members can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u447	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of talk since this morning about the famous holocaust coexistence pact. I would first like to say to you that I am am once again surprised by the fact that such an important issue has been chosen by the government to deal with it within a multi-brand plan, containing eight chapters and sixty-three articles, of which only the first chapter and the fourteen articles are devoted to the question of cohabitation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u448	Put the time on!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u449	Don't worry, I won't get over him. I'll be brief. The position I am going to develop is a position that is dictated by law and law. And I think it is time, after so many approaches to psychological, social and medical, to turn a little on the basis of the law, which requires the cohabitation pact to be adopted. I would remind you first of all that our Constitution, in Article 2 paragraph. I think it is a good thing that the European Parliament has taken a decision on this matter, and I would like to make it clear to the House that it is not the Commission's intention to take a decision on this matter. 1 equality against the law, in Article 5(1), the free development of personality and in Article 9 (2) the inviolability of private and family life. All of this is recorded in a context of equalisation and equalisation, within a framework of respect for human rights and within a framework of liberalism, which must also be served by the fact that I am a member of it. And I do not see what religious freedom or religious marriage is affected by the adoption of the pact. For I, for example, chose to have a religious marriage, but I do not feel that as a Christian Orthodox I am affected by the freedom of my fellow citizens to choose how they want to live together. Nor do I see why the polyteces are affected or why we should consider that the multiples are affected by the cohabitation of people who decide to cohabit as homosexuals. There's S.H.I.E.L.D. Article 8 and Article 14 ensures inviolability, privacy and family life and Article 14 prohibits discrimination in general, as well as especially for family and individual life. There is the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, which in Article 21 prohibits discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation. There are many Council of Europe Directives on equal treatment of persons and many resolutions by the European Parliament on the abolition of discrimination against homosexuals. But, in addition to all, there are the decisions of the Court of Justice of Strasbourg, the Court of Human Rights. I would remind you that, following a decision, Schalk and Kopf against Austria, in 2010, which decided that it was not compulsory to introduce a marriage for homonyms, the Valiannatus decision, which we all know, has been made, since a country adopts a cohabitation agreement, prohibits discrimination against homosexuals and the 2015 Oria decision against Italy, which stated that in any case the states have an obligation to establish some form of legal protection for homosexuals. From the Council of Europe's eighteen countries they have recognised the coexistence pact with various forms, but everything has recognised the possibility of homologous homogeneousity within a legally-organised institutionalisation. I think the direction in which the bill moves is right. I agree with the fact that personal relations must necessarily be regulated in the context of cohabitation by the Civil Code in proportion to each other, and agree with the fact that property relations must be intractablely regulated by the Civil Code, as long as the parties adopt it. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] There has been a lot of discussion on the issue of adoption, whether or not adoption is permitted. I do not see why it bothers us to look at a holocaust request to adopt children, while we know that children who live in institutions with abandonment and lack of any affection are experiencing a hell. I think it would be much better if they were to live with a homosexual couple, as long as it is considered that the homosexual couple also meets the rules laid down for all couples. I do not see why we should think that adoption is forbidden for homosexual couples. For the rest of the issues of the bill, I don't have time to put myself in detail. I would like to say, however, that I find the direction of adopting the Racism Council positive, although I think its organisation could be lighter. On criminal matters already the rapporteur for our own party has explained the positions we have. I do not agree with Articles 21, 23, 27, 28, 29, 42, 46, which have already been discussed and will not be extended. I do not know, Minister, whether there has been an amendment to the regulation of the University of Crete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u451	Not even for the University of Cyprus? There are no such amendments. I have been told that two amendments have been tabled. Apparently, they don't exist. I shall therefore vote in favour of the principle of the bill, in favour of Articles 1 to 14, and I shall vote against the articles to which I referred about criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u452	Thank you very much. Mrs Bakoyannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u453	Ladies and gentlemen, the Chamber has distinguished lawyers and I certainly am not one of them. So, with great care and respect, I take the floor in a bill from the Ministry of Justice, because I am sure it is not my specialty. It is, however, a bill on human freedoms, and I would just like to place myself on it, except for Article 42. The Covenant on Mutual Covenant, in my view, is a pact that comes in, is imperative and is indeed a matter of freedom of choice for people, which we must respect. The New Democracy had brought the terophylus coexistence pact. Today, with a delay - I would say - the bond coexistence agreement is coming. I would therefore like to say at the outset that I agree with Thodoris Fortsakis on everything he has said, so I will not tire you, because this is also a European obligation today, but also a human right, which the Greek Parliament must recognise to our fellow citizens. I was 15 years ago in the Council of Europe when we had the same debate. Then there were strong voices, strong protests whether this symbiosis pact is marriage and whether adoptions should be allowed. It is certain, ladies and gentlemen, that the cohabitation pact is not a marriage. And I want to make that clear. And I, as Mr. Fortsakis says, got married religiously, went to the priest, and I think I've made a marriage. It was my husband's choice and mine. But the symbiosis pact is not a marriage. Marriage is a different choice and the issue of adoption is an issue that has indeed divided Greek and European public opinion. I personally would not agree with the adoption - I say it in advance - and voted against it in the Council of Europe too. And it was no coincidence that the Council of Europe, by a overwhelming majority, was not in favour of the adoption of children by homosexual couples. Not that I do not respect the different choice, that it is not a complex issue, but if you really count on people, families, heterogeneous couples who are now asking for children and are not given, to enter a second phase in the debate if they are allowed or not allowed to be married to couples, I think it is not the time at this time. So if we were to vote today on adoption, I would not vote in favour. I will, however, vote in favour of the cohabitation agreement, following the explicit and unequivocal commitment of the Minister for Justice that this is not at the moment being raised. Minister, I accept your word. I am sure your laws are better than mine and I believe that this is not the case. The symbiosis pact, however, has the right to live together, to regulate their affairs, to inherit each other after a cohabitation which they have, I think, is an obligation for the Greek Parliament to do so, in my opinion. It is perhaps the first time that I agree with the government, at least in one of the articles it brings. But I would like, Minister, to refer to a second article, to which I shall expressly disagree with you, and that is Article 42. Minister, Article 42 is a photographic provision. And I want the House to know that it's a photographic device that comes for the Roman. And you do, after all the conversations, discussions with people incarcerated to bring this provision for the Roman have been published. So I, ladies and gentlemen, am going to vote against it, but I would also ask you SYRIZA colleagues to think carefully about what you are going to do with this provision. Because when a prison council only has the possibility of a prisoner's behaviour in prison and without asking the man who has his file, who knows what he really defends, who knows if he has published, for example...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u454	It has changed since the first meeting in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u455	I see Article 42 in front of me. If you've changed it, I'll take it. Did you get it back?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u456	We changed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u457	It's changed, Mrs. Bakoyannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u458	Oh, good, great! So I get everything I said back. I'm glad you got it back, Minister. I apologise for taking your time and thank you very much for understanding it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u459	Thank you very much, Mrs Bakoyannis. Parliamentary spokesman of the ANLL, Mr Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u460	I want to remind you that shortly before Hitler's rise to power, Thomas Mann wrote a terrible book "Mario and the Wizard". There the homosexuals were in a terrible, unreasonable pursuit, you could do whatever you want without anyone coming after you. It was a time when Ernest Von Rem's battalions were chasing homosexuals. But when Hitler found out Ernest Von Rem himself was a homosexual, he took him out and wanted to kill him. He escaped to "approximately five". I would also like to remind you of a story - if you'll excuse me, it's a personal report - that happened in January 2010 when it was levelled by a terrible Port earthquake - Pranch. Humanitarian organisations from all over the planet went to help, because 95% of buildings had fallen. There was only one 5% standing. We were impressed by the behaviour of a young American doctor from Kentucky. Go first to "CARREFOUR", sees twice as many sick people as we all saw and left last. It was a great deal of trouble, because people were abandoned with antiseptics, stitches, improvised medical warfare. This young American doctor from Kentucky every night we saw him at the "Auberge du Quebec". He didn’t speak, he didn’t have much, only read the Bible. After 15 days of being with him, we learned he was a homosexual. I also want to remind you that Lord Byron and Oscar Wilde were homosexuals. In fact, Oscar Wilde was imprisoned, paid a lot for that location. Colleagues, I quote these examples to remind you of these. I have heard extremist voices lately, mostly from church people, less from here. I have to say that there were no extreme voices in this Chamber. Some colleagues, with all due respect to the opposite view, have another opinion and are respected. However, extremist voices of the type "create, make" me very sorry, do not suit hierarchs. I want to praise the Holy Synod, which has another view, but at least it kept mild tons. I would also like to say the following. In every science there is a point of reference, a reference book. We dermatologists, say, if you ask any dermatologist will tell you, "Does Fitzpatrick say so? Ends.’ Engineers have the other one and the other ones have the other. Reference point for human sexuality is this book here. I have it with me. It's written by a famous doctor, John Bancroft. It is written in English and I would recommend to those who quickly and accurately have an opinion to sit down and read this book. It's worth it. I don't want to say any more and I won't have much time. I would also like to say - because it may make you a surprise - that we in our party, the Independent Greeks, have a conquest, a vote in conscience. There are colleagues who have a different view. I can hear her with respect. It's not mandatory. This is the greatness of democracy. I think I'm one of those people who've said that you don't need polarization. Objections on the contrary, yes, but polarization for what reason? I respect these colleagues. I have another point of view. I welcome Mr Kostas Zourri's speech, and I would like to say this: in a society, it is good to disguise and correct yourself sometimes, because we sometimes break off. This is the one side of the coin. But there is another one: Infinite populism cannot guide politics. I condemn politicians who, for electoral reasons, are compatible with populist positions. I believe that politicians should guide society rather than compromise for reasons of political cost. I would like to finish, because I will not consume any more time - to say that, as you can see, this is the least possible that could be done for people who have an indiscriminate right to their inherited, insurers, their deaths and all that is legally more and nothing more. I don't want to go into details. Honestly, I liked this conversation in Parliament because I saw a consensus. I was pleased with the previous speakers and Mr Fortsakis and Mrs Bakoyannis and others, and I would not like us to deal with a matter we should not be polarising. I want to condemn the words of the beloved to me, Mr Amyras - extreme words - for a colleague of mine. I think he'll have regretted these words himself. Each one believes what he wants, and we can coexist with our different opinions. I say this as a request - Mr Amyras is missing - because I too have a lot of objections to what I hear here through the parties. It is good to hear the other view. I believe that this is how democracy is being promoted. I just want to make a comment on Article 46. I have listened very carefully and respectfully to Mr Athanasios, who I believe is an expert on legal matters. I very clearly heard him put it that the Presidents of the Court of Auditors, the Ice Bay and the Council of State are being given powers. I would like to remind Mr Athanasios and many others who criticised this article that it has been known for many years that executive power by a presidential decree decides who will be President of the Ice Bay, President of the Court of Auditors and President of the Council of State. Here is a glorious field for anyone who has disagreement and wants, indeed, the third pillar of parliamentary democracy to be independent, to sit in the revision of the Constitution and to look back at the beginning, step by step, word - Article 90! This declining pain in alleged interference with righteousness is not reliable. For years now, the political system has indeed been affecting - and I am not talking about a particular government - because it actually appoints the supreme judges and could therefore say: How independent can a judge appointed by a presidential decree by the cabinet? Here is a glorious field for all of us when the revision of the Constitution comes to sit down and see them. I would like to say this. The relentless Sotiris Bayas had made terrible suggestions. Let us look at them - I am not in a hurry - and really see how we can lay the foundations for what is called parliamentary democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u461	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. Prime Minister Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u462	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have asked to speak - I will be brief - because I believe that today is an important day - historically, I would say - for our country, for Parliament, for democracy, for many years' struggles. First of all, I would like to start with the important, historic step this morning. The House resolution on Palestine is a historic step, but also a move with a special symbolism in a critical time period for the wider region, the destabilised Middle East region, a move of solidarity and recognition of the long and fair struggle of the Palestinian people for freedom and independence. It is, I would say, a minimum sign of solidarity imposed by the sense of law and the long-term friendship between the two peoples, the Greek and the Palestinians. Finally, it is at the same time an agonizing call to all parties involved internationally to follow the path of understanding and peace and, with regard to the Palestinian question, our country can play a role as a mediator, so that a just solution to the Palestinian question can finally be given. Because the war, the violence of the mighty and the exclusion of an entire people cannot be acceptable means of resolving disputes in a world that wants to be governed by the principles of mutual respect, justice, international law and democracy. The Greek Government has declared to all tons the need for international mobilisation and cooperation for the recognition of the Palestinian state at the 1967 border, the capital of East Jerusalem. We remain committed to this objective as a government, as a country and as a people, and this objective is what the Parliament's decision today is to do. But today, ladies and gentlemen, it is also an important day for what it will be voting on in a moment - I believe by a large majority - our Parliament. This is an important day for human rights, for defending the equivalence of the law for all our fellow citizens. It is an important day because today we recognise the possibility of all people, regardless of sex and sexual orientation, to live together and go their own way to life, as they believe they deserve, to have equal rights to life and death, like all Greek citizens. So it closes a circle of retreat - and allow me to express it - and a circle of shame for the Greek state which even led to convictions by the European Court of Human Rights, a circle of denials and marginalisation of a large section of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, those of our fellow citizens who, because of their sexual orientation, were not entitled to live with their partner or partner, enjoying the basic rights that each couple enjoys in Greek legal order. It closes, then, a regression cycle, even late. Instead of celebrating, I would like to apologise for hundreds, to thousands of our fellow citizens who all over the previous years, while in all the other countries of Europe there are similar legal regimes, in our country they lacked rights, and in particular to our fellow citizens who felt barbarism, losing their companions not to have the human right to stand by the pain, not to have the right, as every man deserves to have the right to the law. This is something that should have been done for many years, perhaps perhaps, for months now, as far as the government is concerned, ours, which started on 25 January. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But it closes a circle of backwardness and opens - I want to believe - a new cycle of equality, dignity, respect for diversity and constitutionally guaranteed and protected equality for all people, regardless of sex and sexual orientation. As far as we are concerned, it is a commitment made and made as a self-evident and democratic obligation for the state to the citizens. The good thing I would say is that, in contrast to the few - it is the truth - preachers of fear and intolerance, the Greek society has demonstrated that it is identical to the regulatory principles of the rule of law, equality and respect for human dignity. It proved to have reflexively, that it does not get carried away, that it is not as dreadful and as miserable as some wanted to present it to justify their own prejudices and present their own way of life as the only right. And I think that this is at the end of the day the big profit, a historical, democratic deposit, a great victory for rights, but in a lasting and unequivocal struggle, with the goal of equilibrium. Because it is precisely this principle that we want to guide our Government and define our choices, and in all areas, to the economy, to work, to family, to school, to the neighborhood, to any manifestation of political and social life. We know, of course, that we still have a long way to go. We also know that is liberalism is a regulatory authority, a horizon and not a clear and concrete destination. And as we all know, the characteristic of the horizon is that every time we take a step he does not come closer, but goes back. However, something has changed and something has changed today by voting in the House on the draft law on the cohabitation agreement. Because each step leaves traces and coordinates change, however little, but coordinates change. And this little change takes effect that improves the everyday life and lives of thousands of our fellow citizens. And that's something. So today, as a Greek Parliament and as a government, we can be proud, because by voting on this law, we will change for the better the lives of thousands of our fellow citizens and we will deserve the struggles and expectations much more. And we will change their lives, because legal recognition of the relationship between the couples of the same sex will, in fact, solve many problems of everyday life: problems of assets safeguarding, insurance and taxation. And of course, we are doing the same for the heterogeneous couples who choose to enter into a cohabitation agreement so far, because of the legal gaps they have also faced many of these practical problems. The practical issues, of course, are not of minor importance. The central, however, today remains the political, legal and real part that we are trying to do. And this section marks a new era in terms of respect for human rights in our country. But we still have a long way to go. We have to continue above all the everyday, constant struggle against all forms of discrimination, against racism and fascism that pollutes Greek, as well as other European societies, especially these days. This struggle, however, goes beyond critical and courageous legislative initiatives, above all, we need to unite forces. It requires the militarisation of democratic forces, but also of social movements. It takes constant vigilance and political courage, in order not to allow today, days difficult, in the dark to dominate, to win every day democracy, to vindicate struggles, to turn pages, as I believe we have done today, with the two important decisions this morning, but now with the one that will follow by the Greek Parliament. We are opening roads and I believe that these roads that we are opening will enable, not only for the justice of fights, but also for new races that will be justified in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u463	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Pschakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u464	Our parliamentary representative has asked for the floor, Mr President. Following the Minister and the Prime Minister, the Parliamentary Representative is asking for the floor. You are directly violating the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u465	Mr Kegeroglu, Mr Theodorakis has asked for the floor, which according to the Rules of Procedure precedes it. When the President of the Party is asking for the floor, the President of the Party takes the lead. Therefore, since Mr. Theodorakis left the floor to the MP...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u466	President or deputy to the parliamentary representative, says the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u467	Yes, but when the president of a party asks why, the President of the Party takes the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u468	What president?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u469	Mr. Theodorakis said he would like to speak. So we apply the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u470	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to refer to the draft law on coexistence. The special speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios, has raised the issue sufficiently, as has the other good colleagues who have spoken so far. I shall refer to Amendment No 120, which I tabled on Friday 18 December with fellow Members, and which refers to the clearing of certain government debts to enterprises in sensitive areas of the country, such as Evros, Thrace and the municipalities of eastern Macedonia, with public debts to these enterprises. In the present case, it is clear from the case-law of the Court that, in the absence of a subsidy for wage costs, it is not necessary to determine whether the aid is compatible with the common market under Article 92(3)(c) of the Treaty. 1836/1989 from the public authorities to undertakings. Entrepreneurs and professionals in every category and form who have provided jobs, have ensured economic survival - if not growth - of the regions themselves and of them and a large number of jobs. The non-payment of the aid is a direct attack on the operation of the aid, as it is the amounts that have been set aside in their business plans and for which they have been taxed as substantial recipients. For claims born in 2010, there is a direct risk of limitations with the end of the current year without the same liability. But businessmen, like their thousands of workers who follow, do not have any demands, in the midst of this crisis, of money directly payable. That is why this amendment has been tabled so that these sums can be offset by any existing debts to the public sector, so that the operators subject to this arrangement are relieved and the corresponding jobs can be saved without directly imposing the public fund. The tabling of the amendment is also based on the expression of a positive view by the Minister responsible, Mr Stathakis, in recent meetings with business operators and institutional actors in the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace, at which I was present. At this point, I should like to inform you that before the amendment was tabled, I have repeatedly complained this year about the planned actions under parliamentary control, such as reports, written questions and timely questions. They are, however, unfortunately in progress. The non-payment of these sums due will make it even more difficult for businesses, which now have two choices: to close or migrate. The private sector and entrepreneurship must finally enter the government's account. In particular, there must be a clear target for supporting areas in special circumstances such as Evros and Thrace. Tools give us the European Union itself and international practices, such as, firstly, investment programmes through the ESDP, in such areas as to optimise production and reduce increased costs. Secondly, specific tax provisions for business taxation and their costs, such as energy, transport, etc. Thirdly, especially for transport. The issue of the ferry connection between Evros and the main mainland Greece and the islands of the north-eastern Aegean remains open. We want to enter the North Aegean island market and the ones on the Thrace market. We all need it. Fourthly, conservation programmes and the creation of new jobs. The Ministry of Justice, Minister, can exercise power - even at the last minute - in order to vote on this bill and the amendment tabled as urgent. You have every reason to host this amendment in your bill, because it is easy to understand how tomorrow's flooding of pipelines from atrocious Thrace businessmen, first of all, will make the functioning of justice unquestionably difficult. For the Thracians and the people of Evros will not tolerate any more harmless passages of ministers and other factors from our country, nor will any promises or blessings be tolerated. It is the last opportunity for the government to show that the inhabitants of Thrace and Evros are also important and they are not citizens of'second class'. I call on the parties, and above all the rapporteurs, the parliamentary representatives and all the Members, to vote on the urgent amendment as soon as it is put to the vote by the government. Because, Minister for Economic Affairs and Development, I am not in the complaining speech, but I prefer to put forward realistic proposals, as my last proposal, and if I may say the following: If you cannot pay, if you cannot vote, at least make sure that the issue of limitations is postponed, in order that the necessary debate can be held in the intervening period, either through this law or by an act of legislation by the end of the year, because, as you know, we have the limitation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u471	Thank you, Mr. Prison. Have you asked for the floor, Mr Stathakis, for interference in this matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u472	In fact, for two minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u473	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u474	It must be clear to Parliament that this measure has been chosen, as have other categories of measures that had been chosen by previous governments, to support border areas that need support. I underline that. They had chosen measures that were incompatible with the European system, which in fact has raised for the Greek state and the Greek public huge problems with the withdrawal of this money and, secondly, from this money over the last five years has not been paid a single euro. I repeat, this money over the last five years, which relates to subsidisation of labour, 12%, has not been paid for one euro. This is clear in all respects, because the current regime even provides for their removal after five years. Therefore, the government has put it directly, that we will not continue with a regime which cannot be legal and, in this case, can be an effective support tool. We have sought ways of netting out whatever part of it has been a tax burden for businesses and we have committed ourselves to it. We'll find a way to keep the operations from being imposed. But we are looking for alternative tools compatible with European data to support these regions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u475	Thank you very much, Mr Stathakis. Mr Ursouzidis has the floor and then Mr Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u476	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today the Greek Parliament unanimously recognised the state of Palestine. Inevitably, the memory went to the Arab friends who together shared our student years. Fate brought it to me to be a member of this House, and with my vote to contribute, in response to my debt to these people, to the law. I now come to our point, to other friends, to my homosexual friends, who have been concerned for many years and lived in situations which certainly do not honor a favoured society. We are therefore called upon to vote on a bill which refers to the recognition of the relationship between couples of the same sex from the state, so that we can be clear in the relationship between two of our peoples who have chosen to cohabit and want to ensure their relationship, that is to say, establishing it institutionally. Apart from the fact that this bill is an obligation of the country - and in particular of the European Court of Justice's well-known condemnation - the essence of the issue is: enough with the ostrichism and the perpetuation of our fellow people who have chosen what makes them happy, and above all, sincerely against a society that is difficult to accept the diversity. It is a long-standing demand that society has accepted. Political costs, however, prevented its early acceptance. It is a clear step towards equality, so that there are no Greeks who are oppressed by the well-known centres of political power, which are based on prejudice and homophobia. At the same time, issues relating to economic and legal matters are regulated. The coexistence pact gives the solutions. So they now have the opportunity to go to a notary quite simply, to sign a paper with which it will be clear whether or not one or another will have the right to the property of another or the other, and if they choose to dismantle the cohabitation agreement etc. Moreover, the cohabitation pact is much easier to resolve than the complex procedures required by divorce. Two people, then, who consent to the common course of their lives, clarify the issues that concern them. A void in safeguarding the relationship between couples who live together and do not want to marry, came to cover the cohabitation pact. Therefore, it is typically a notarial act. In fact, however, it is about democracy. Reliable research, but also the common perception of things, shows that the majority of Greek citizens accept the regulation and have accepted homosexuality as human experiential function and choice. It is a request which is highly democratic, progressive and not left, as some people want to interpret it very closely to justify their vote and cowardice once again. The subject of the cohabitation pact has often dealt with publicity, but not with homosexual couples. The current pact, which was condemned, as I said before, precisely because it did not include homosexual couples, is well known when it was voted on. It is also understandable that, since we have grown up in a society with specific standards and prejudices against homosexuals, we find it difficult to deal with this diversity of our fellow people after being raised as something abnormal. But we were all born normal. That's the truth. We grew up and follow our nature. We obey what makes us happy and balanced, accepting our nature. That's natural, that's what happens and it happens from man's payment. Therefore, homosexuality is part of human nature and of people's sexual expression and so we must accept it. This view is expressed by the International Scientific Community, which has stated that homosexuality is a healthy expression of sexuality and is not a pathology. She only reigns in some's heads. I also believe that Greek citizens are positive and support the extension of the coexistence pact between homosexuals, indirectly giving an answer to previous political powers, which measured the political cost of such a decision, as they have done for decades on all matters that had political costs. That's why we got here. The Pact enshrines and ensures the right to acquire homosexual couples a degree of affinity, tax reliefs, inheritance rights and other facilities. They are generally provided with institutional safeguards. But is that why we should vote for the bill? Apparently not. It concerns democracy, the government must defend and defend the rights of all oppressed and above all the right to equality. Because homosexuals are a oppressed team. They move secretly, in fear of social outcry. So, then, we have to deal with things bravely, rationally and soberly, with an open mind. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, I would like to stress that the draft law does not raise a matter of childbirth, an issue that is completely irrelevant to the bill, as the Minister responsible said. Finally, the bill concerns society as a whole, ensuring justice, making homosexuals and heterosexuals equal to the law. This can only satisfy every democratic citizen in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u477	Thank you very much. It is known in this House that the Ministers of National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Health and Finance, and the Deputy Ministers of Interior and Administrative Reform, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs have tabled a draft law on 22-12-2015: "Confidence of issues of transfer of arms, personnel care and other provisions". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u478	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the Prime Minister left after his speech. The Democratic Reconciliation welcomes this bill, which enters for discussion and vote in plenary. I would like to say to you that it is coming for discussion and a vote in plenary because in the committees the Democratic Integration voted for it, as two other opposition parties, Potami and the Central American Union have voted for it, because you did not have the government majority. Only as self-criticism can I understand the fact that the Prime Minister just now said that this had to have been done for months. But today it is because of our attitude, and that is why the bill comes to plenary, and that is why it is being discussed and that is why the state will be extended the symbiosis pact to family couples. Well, let's talk about it, 'cause that's the way it is. Of course, in the committees, the New Democracy was reserved, it had no position, as we see today it has no place. In fact, he's not here right now. I imagine he's consulting to decide, because we've heard all the different trends and positions. I therefore want to believe that the progressive perceptions of all the parties in the democratic arch will prevail. The satisfaction for us comes from the fact that both the PASOK and the Democratic Left in the past, by tabling a proposal for a draft law and many questions and amendments, attempted to extend the coexistence agreement. It is also a good thing that the extension of the cohabitation pact and the homogeneous couples are treated as an independent legislative initiative. Evidently, it took a long time to overcome clawbacks and conservative reflexes and to launch the necessary reform, which is dictated by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, by the European Parliament resolution, but also by the European Court of Justice's decision against our country. Furthermore, it is in line with European directives in relation to the practice of other European States which have adopted wave-related directives. Apart from European legislation and case law, however, this reform focuses on the 'human' factor, on the needs of modern societies, on the needs of our time. Greece is one of the last countries in Europe where homosexuals do not have a framework for official recognition of their relationship. This lack is causing great difficulties and obstacles to their daily lives, given that, apart from social marginalisation, it also creates practical problems, such as problems of assets safeguarding, insurance, taxation and labour. It is our basic position and our obligation, as well as an undeniable need, to take all necessary measures immediately, whether they are legal or administrative or social, in the direction of eliminating any prejudiced and discreet people based on the sexual orientation and identity of their gender. Of course, there is one concern - if not fear - about the implementation of the law, given that experience has shown that, while arrangements are being voted on, they often remain inactive because of bureaucratic problems or because of delays in issuing the necessary circulars. We have recently seen this in the citizenship law. So we ask: is the administration ready to extend the pact to the couples in the same family, for example, with the necessary change in the parameters in the administrations? I'm coming to the negatives of the bill. First of all, I would like to mention the fact that this bill, because it did not have the majority of the government in the committees, should not have and should not contain any articles in which the opposition is against - for example Article 46 - which has nothing to do with the rule of law that we want to create. We told you that all the anti-population forces told you. Secondly, it should not include amendments, such as this amendment by Mr Papagelopoulos, which come and are unacceptable, as you were analysed by all the eminent lawyers in the previous debate. In the negative, therefore, it is the apparent obsession with fragmentary arrangements, and there is a need for a systemic approach to criminal and penal law. Once again, the Ministry has moved on to fragmentary and scattered amendments to the provisions of the Criminal Code and the penitentiary legislation, which are not sufficient to solve the chronic problems of the criminal and penitentiary system. In Articles 27 and 28, I referred at some point to an intervention by the Minister for Justice. For Rule 28, what is stated in the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, I asked for them to come specifically as a legislative improvement or as an amendment. The specific conditions have not been met in order not to create a procedure in which the wider social interest is defined as a card. For Article 42 and the subject of distance learning, which is, of course, a positive provision, the competence of educational institutions - and we have said so - to offer distance learning, as most HEIs and TEIs do not have that possibility. Article 44 establishes an autonomous Privileges Coordination Office under the Secretary-General of Anti-Criminal Policy. As it has the same competence as the General Secretariat, it does not understand its usefulness in a ministry which already has two Ministers and four General Secretariats. With regard to paragraph 3 of Article 46, which has caused - quite reasonable and legitimate - strong reactions to the judicial and political world, for the first time in the country's chronicles the right to exercise disciplinary action against a judiciary has been exercised by the President of the Ice Council, as well as by the Presidents of the SGC and the Court of Auditors for their own jurisdiction. Extensive reference has been made by law-abiding lawyers. I do not have to say any more on this matter. With regard to Article 48, which refers to rules for judges, the Ministry of Administrative Reform and Electronic Governance has already announced the reform of the ranking for the entire government, so it raises questions why the Ministry is now coming to regulate the issue of judges' ranking. The service councils have indeed not been able to set up for several months, but this should be dealt with in an overall view of the government's rating and not partly of a category of officials, and indeed with arbitrary criteria that refer to the redistribution of collective claims. Ladies and gentlemen, we are, however, in agreement with all those provisions relating to the cohabitation agreement, that is to say, Articles 1 to 14 which extend the application of the cohabitation agreement to homosexual couples. The term 'cohabitation agreement' shall be deleted from the terms of the cohabitation agreement, so that the conclusion of an agreement is in full legal and allowable. This provision is the symbolic and real foundation of this legislative initiative, which fulfils the obligation to comply with national legislation. However, it is not simply a compliance with the judgements of the court, but an adaptation to the most mature conditions for the implementation of a comprehensive intervention framework. These changes have as the starting point and include a modern and functional basis for free co-existence for all, regardless of sex, with the recognition of all relevant rights. At this point we would like to stress that we are talking about safeguarding human rights and when it comes to human rights, there are no exceptions. It is not a question, ladies and gentlemen, of overriding minorities, according to the epicly unacceptable terminology of your co-pilot of the Independent Greeks. As far as the National Council against Racism and intolerance are concerned, in addition to what creative proposals we can bring about for the composition and responsibilities of the Council, so that it does not become another bureaucratic body, but indeed an instrument for producing a policy against racism and intolerance, its symbolic and unique nature for combating and preventing racist phenomena is sufficient to support the provisions. However, we have said that it is a multi-faceted instrument, and it will not be possible in this way that you plan to coordinate, monitor policies against racism. Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Assent makes a substantial and not a sterile opposition. We are voting against what is coming and what is contrary to a rule of law - I mentioned Article 46 in this bill - and harming social cohesion and voting in favour of what is in the right direction. I want to make two points. Firstly, I told you before that, if there were no other two parties in the opposition, we would not have a debate today on this bill in plenary. Rejoice with your co -government for their progressive positions. The bill came to plenary because we put our backs on. But what will happen from now on? Will you vote on the few bills you bring with a progressive sign with us and vote on the extremes, neoliberal, conservative measures - which you usually bring - with your co-governing the Independent Greeks? The second point I would like to make is this: you have articles in which we do not just disagree as I have said, but if this is another bill, it would lead to their vote at first instance and I am referring, for example, to Rule 46, Rule 42 et seq. What we have asked you and we are asking you to do now is to withdraw them, because the debate in plenary is about the pact and extension of the symbiosis pact to homosexual couples. So this is happening at the moment: to discuss this issue, first of all, because the Democratic Reconciliation has voted for it in committee, and to discuss articles and risk passing articles, despite the fact that all the opposition parties are opposite. All parties, for example, for Article 46, have said that it is contrary. So we're telling you that it's not a reasonable process. Remove them even now. As far as the amendments are concerned, we are used to them. In other bills there were more than twenty amendments. There are no amendments here to sport, anything we can imagine. This is not the way to move forward and to have such a logic. In addition, we have seen it in the process of parallel programme, where a bill came to the committees without the approval of the committee, without the report from the General Accounting Office of the State, without the necessary public consultation that is needed in all the bills, without complying with the necessary conditions. Parliament's Rules of Procedure and the La Poste Constitution cannot be observed, ladies and gentlemen. For all these reasons, we will vote in favour of the bill at first. Of course, we disagree with certain articles which we will also vote against. Our attitude is firm and I am very pleased to stress that this bill with a progressive sign - and I am referring to the extension of a cohabitation agreement - has come here late and we are discussing it, with a view to finally harmonising national legislation and human rights issues with Community legislation. In this way we understand the programme opposition, that is what we are doing and that is what we will continue to do. And, of course, what has been heard during the day, for example by the rapporteur for the Independent Greeks to the rapporteur for the Democratic Reconciliation, seems to indicate that some here are not read about what happened in previous years, about the efforts made at the time by the Democratic Left and PASOK to proceed with the process of extending the coexistence agreement and some did not go ahead with it. That is what is happening today in our own contribution, despite the fact that there are many articles and amendments which are contrary to the rule of law in the bill, and of course it is in favour of a customer-based logic with which we disagree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u479	Thank you, Mr. Theocharopoulos. The President of the Union of Central Banks, Mr Leventis, has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u480	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that a bill harmonising Greece with progressive Europe has become the subject of friction, outrageous controversy of words, etc. There have been phrases in Parliament today inappropriate from various wings. Perhaps because some wings do not exist politically and by raising tons they try to exist. Know that, when you hear in Parliament, there are hypnotic phrases, there are naked views and they are trying by raising the tone there are some. I'm very sorry about the Church. I was a church man. I've also been a school teacher in my youth. I'm sorry about some hierarchs who say that there can be no marriage between nature and so on. Who asked them to be married? We're talking about a notary act, aren't we? Will the Church be forced to make a marriage, to bless a marriage? The Church seems to me to have to live its Middle Ages in its fanaticism. I hope not all the hierarchs. I didn't think so. The Orthodox Church, at least as official theologians represent it, is a Church of progress not a Regression Church. So I think some hierarchs talking about marriages are out of place and time. Of course, some of the usual far - right hierarchs are heard. These are the usually screaming. But even them, because they're hierarchs and because they're in large areas, they had to be careful. They can't say what they want and they can't be out of place and time. It is sad that the Church of Greece does not realize that here one is going to take the pension of his partner or take his home when he dies. It is sad that the Church does not understand this thing and speak of marriage. We must make it clear that the Greek society is not yet ready for adoption. Wherever I got back, wherever I was, they told me we shouldn't get through the adoption. I would like to say to Parliament that I do not know whether this will be the case at one time if the climate is more mature, but today it cannot be done either indirectly or later. This must be cleared up, because, if there are signs of misinterpretation, this is an insult to the Christian customs that we must safeguard. From this microphone I declare my personal devotion and my respect for the official Church of Greece, but I invite her to come to the spirit of the era and not by cries to try to declare her presence. I'm leaving this issue. The Centro Association shall vote for the Coexistence Pact. I do not know whether there are any reservations about some of these amendments. I do not understand, when we talk about a bill, what bad fate makes the government bring amendments pointless from windows. I don't understand that. I would ask the government to be more serious as long as it remains in power. When we talk about a bill, we talk about the bill. It is not enough to discuss this with urgency, as if they were after us shooting at us, we have the windows openly, so that amendments can be put in place. This is unacceptable and reminiscent of other times. The view that foreigners are chasing us to do this is not enough to justify it. The foreigners with whom I am discussing tell me that only reforms want to move forward, to establish and to start implementing. They do not want such things, urgent procedures and substantiated amendments, which also alter the substance of the main draft law. We therefore support this bill for cohabiting, because it solves hereditary and urban problems of Greek citizens. That is why we support the bill alone. But I will tell you some other things to make them known to the House. Because these days I have spoken to some ambassadors and representatives of foreign governments, I have informed them that there has been a common mistake among all three governments. And to Mr George Papandreou and Mr Samaras, and now to Mr Tsipras, there is a common mistake: it is considered a European way of thinking that a government should be subject to what is shown by Europe, which is Brussels. But what if Brussels is wrong? What's going on? Then we are applying a deadlock plan and there are sacrifices pointless and - the worst - we are able to get the Greek people away from Europe, to conclude that Europe is bad and we must leave. You know, all the mistakes that have been made so far have made Greek citizens misled themselves towards Europe. And while we had 85% with 90% pro-European public in Greece four years ago, now - I do not know if it has been measured - I consider it to be much smaller than the pro-European rate. I think, therefore, that the mistakes of governments, apart from not solving the problem, also drive Greece away from Europe, a Greece that should be the centre of Europe. And I have said that this time is the time when Greece should have the most pro-European politician and Prime Minister. This is the time when we must convince ourselves that we are making reforms, because we have been mocking strangers for six years and they have understood that. It is a time when Greece must immediately move on to reforms. But here I see that all the wings of the House are selling hope to the world. Pharmaceuticals should not be opened up to taxis because they have votes, farmers should be pleased because they too have votes. I see, in other words, parties that are still old-fashioned, parties that make fun of both their society and their own. There is no will to speak honestly in society. I have therefore informed the foreigners that the agenda for the reforms is wrong. In other words, with a public who has 30% slow wages, while maintaining such a large proportion of slow pay within the public sector, the public machine will never be productive. So we must immediately find or transfer them to the private sector or something to do. In other words, it cannot be with a public corrupt to a large extent, learned not to produce or even work, to move forward in tomorrow's Europe. You can't do that. But the same goes for pensions. There are a million million people who get two pensions, major pensions. Are foreigners listening to this and saying: 'Master pensions'? Main pensions! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Three hundred and thirty thousand Greeks get three pensions. I turn to the government and say: no insurance will be solved unless we assimilate all pensions to one and if we do not make it clear to the citizens that what has been done for fifty years has been corrupt and customer-friendly things that are happening to us, not to the Balkans, to the Third World. But you don't dare talk to the world and mock the world, all the wings of the House! And there are responsibilities. There are great responsibilities. How long do I have? I don't understand, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u481	Your time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u482	Oh, is it over? I'm sorry, I didn't understand that, Mr. President. There are responsibilities for non-information of the world and the world hopes. The multitudes are coming and I'm being asked for their benefits. The disabled are coming and I'm being asked for their own benefits. The government has already signed a zero-wage pension clause. Oper what does it mean? It means that whatever the funds have, they'll share and the funds are dead already. We're making fun of the world, and we're cheating. I object to this House! Either we find the courage to tell the people the truth or we're in front of the cliff and we'll fall down. I don't want to answer that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u483	Thank you, Mr President. I would remind you that the House unanimously in its plenary session has decided that the vote should start at 23: 00, so that they can speak as many as possible. The President of the Party Potami, Mr Theodorakis, has asked for the floor. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u484	Ladies and gentlemen, the moment requires that we talk about rights, rights that we have forgotten and about rights that we are constantly referring to in the future. For the Government of the SYRIZA - ANEL, the rights seem to have no priority. I am not saying just about today's fragmentary bill, but about what you do in prisons, what you do not do for the disabled, what you do not do for the Roma. You promised a lot, you took votes, and now you have an appointment in the next election. We on the river think differently. Development requires that rights be guaranteed, it requires homosexuals to be equal, to have the same rights in life, in the economy, in family, in property, in children, in death. I would like here to address the conservative colleagues and also the conservative citizens. I'm not telling the extremists. They don't listen. And it is disgraceful - you will allow me to quote some metropolitans, thankfully few, behave as preachers of hatred. "Love is long gone, love is not poor," Apostle Paul declares. I mean, though, something very specific that I heard from a church man. You love each other, he said, unless they're prostitutes, gay or Jewish. It is amazing that a man who took an oath of pureness for all his life would want to impose on society what is natural and what is abnormal in human relations. We say the state and the church have no place in the nation's bedrooms. I would therefore like to say to the conservative citizens that they should not be afraid. The homosexual coexistence pact does not threaten their family and certainly does not threaten their homeland. No one is at risk of respect for reality. On the contrary, we are at risk of hypocrisy and oppression. So let's stop hiding behind our finger. To stop homosexuals being treated as second-class citizens. They have the same obligations, so they must have the same rights. And on this point, they must be able to enter into a political marriage. That's the point of the river. That's our place. They're taxpayers. They're voters. They're farmers. They're businessmen. They're unemployed. They're politicians. They're scientists. They're some of us. They're not too far-sighted. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, has a difficult battle ahead. We need to overcome a major crisis and this crisis is not just an economic crisis, it is a crisis of a system that, in addition to all others, has been based on hypocrisy. So let us respect reality. SYRIZA's colleagues must cease to be afraid. Your partner of ANEL told the Greeks in an election that he “will teach you to write with the right hand only”. Don't confirm him every day. You refused, now close, to take a stand on the Richter case. Silence by the popular MPs of Crete. Silence, not a word. Why so much steam? The country wants clashes to pull it off. We in Potami ask the Municipality of Athens and Thessaloniki to proceed immediately to the creation of incineration sites. To stop people from being exiled after death. To stop traveling to Bulgaria. Ladies and gentlemen, the prosperity and progress of a society is not only judged by the wealth it produces, but is mainly judged by the rights enjoyed by its citizens and, above all, by the vulnerable groups, the weak link in society. So what do we do in practice for people with disabilities? We need a national plan for people with disabilities. We don't have it. We have to create it. Three out of four disabled people cannot move to the city, to the country, because there are no appropriate infrastructure. For six years - a specific complaint - has not been made about the recruitment of disabled people. They have been ahead all these years - and not just yours, your months - party officials. Ladies and gentlemen, I went to the Corridal Prison last week. There is a warden in the hospital of prisoners who are seven defenders, disabled, paralyzed prisoners, over eighty years old, without legs, and there is a penitentiary employee who tries to serve them all day long. What does their imprisonment serve? Why don't we move on to a substantial reform of the penitentiary system? Why don't we move to rural women's prisons, which we've said, into rural youth prisons? All prisoners together? The unrepentant with the repentants? The poor devils along with the crime professionals? The only thing the Ministry of Justice cares about is photographic provisions in favour of certain prisoners. I say that on the occasion of this bill. He put the provisions on gay couples before the Ministry, so that a number of unacceptable provisions on justice can be passed. An inappropriate and unrelated provision, which gives for the first time disciplinary authority over judicial and public prosecutors to the President of the Ice Bay. Some people's only concern is to arm Mrs Thanos with disciplinary supremacy. Mr. Paradise? Mr. Papagelopoulos? Because there are twins in the government, and you don't know who has the ultimate responsibility. All the serious judges - not all of us - if you speak, disagree with this superpower given to the President of the Ice Bay. But why do they insist? Because they coup d'étatly want to impose checks on judges, prosecutors who are not pleasing to the new regime. It's a very big mistake. Ladies and gentlemen, the country has a conservative government, as were previous governments, except for a few small exceptions. Potami, the country's progressive movement, will not compromise. It will clash with all conservative policies. With hypocritical morality, with stereotypes that keep our society on the knees of our society in the past. Our bet is to go forward, finally to build the country we envision. And I think that in this bet we will be followed by many more people than some imagined, progressive citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u485	Thank you, too. And we're moving on with Mrs. Karasarlidou. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u486	Good evening. I would first like to welcome all the people who are in the gallery from the LGBTKI community. It's an honor and joy for us that you've been attending the whole meeting throughout the day, as far as I've noticed. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Colleagues, we are debating today a very important bill, the bill extending the cohabitation pact and the homosexual couples, broadening the range of family, hereditary and insurance rights to all heterogeneous and homogeneous couples. The distinction that led to our country being condemned by the European Court of Human Rights must be lifted by means of a regulation which is fundamental and self-evident that should have been adopted a long time ago. The vote of this bill is a station on equality and human rights in our country. I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you would like to take this opportunity to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, The first is the lifting of discrimination against our fellow citizens on the basis of their sexual orientation, discrimination, which so far are in complete contrast with the principles of equality, the free development of personality and respect for subsidiarity. The second is the general upgrade of the cohabitation pact for homogeneous and heterogeneous couples. Relations remain unrecognised and often covered by the veil of silence. All rights, insurance, pensions, employment, tax, hereditary and various other rights are recognised in the pact, as are to the spouses. For the first time, we are called upon to take a formal, clear and reasoned position. Our aim is not to take the pact as a good act for the benefit of our fellow citizens, but also as a harmonisation with the West. We must realise that this debate concerns our fellow people, who, in a spirit of political and social deception, have succeeded in organising their lives, as well as ensuring the area of their dignity. Men and women in this country, whose basic rights are not recognized to date on the basis of anachronistic views of the most conservative circles in society. The cohabitation pact covers the need for too many of our fellow citizens to recognise their cohabitation legally. It recognises each couple as a family and ensures hereditary rights and positions of family. It is now a mature demand for Greek society to also recognize the right to family life. On this point, however, I would like to refer to the unacceptable statements made in recent years on the basis of this draft law. We've heard of natural and non-people, of sexual distortions. Are there any sexual distortions? Who can characterize true love between two people as perversion? Of course, we cannot accept expressions that characterize human beings as abortions, especially when they come from mouths of churchmen who, from their standpoint, should publish love in all its forms. The time has come when the state without discrimination must legislate for all citizens, regardless of their color, religion and sexual preference. Because it is a matter of public life rather than private life to be able to insure your partner and, of course, it is a matter of public life to be able to stand up to one's mate at difficult times, to be informed of his health, to be able to inherit his possessions after a life that they shared or even acquired. I think I do not need to talk more about the need to extend the coexistence agreement. After all, the bill we are debating today is not just limited to it, but there are other provisions which are equally important, but to which I shall avoid mentioning so that I do not abuse time. Usually the laws don't have that much human face. Today I think the opposite is true. It moves me and at the same time fills me with pride because I belong to a society that slowly changes, becomes more human, understands and embraces. The cohabitation pact which will soon be the law of the state gives a clear signal that something is changing for a non-discriminatory society, with equal rights and space for all and for all. For all these reasons, therefore, I ask you to vote in favour of this draft law. It is an important tool in terms of the gradual social maturity of all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u487	Thank you, too. Mr. Stephen has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u488	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today and deciding on this self-evident thing. Greece is one of the last countries in Europe where homosexual couples have no framework for official recognition of their relationship. Ireland has introduced a civil marriage for gay couples after a referendum where 62% voted in favour of allowing marriage between two people without discrimination on their sexes. In total, more than two thousand couples have joined together since Ireland made the free cohabitation pact. Marriage in France, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Spain, Portugal, the United Kingdom and there is agreement in many countries, including Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Croatia, Slovenia, Hungary and others. This bill makes two decisive steps. The first is to remove discrimination against our fellow citizens on the grounds of sexual orientation. The second is the general upgrade of the cohabitation pact for homogeneous and heterogeneous couples, as family ties between the parties are recognised. And finally it is recognised in the parts of the pact, as in spouses, all rights, such as insurance, pensions, labour, tax, hereditary and others. This bill, however, is not limited to the coexistence pact, but contains many points of democratisation, such as the creation of the National Council against Racism and Mid-Languageism, which will design policies to prevent and combat racism and intolerance to ensure the protection of individuals and groups targeted by race, colour, religion, genealogical catastrophes, ethnic or ethnic origin, sexual orientation, gender identity. It amends the provision for crime involving racist features. This abandons the problematic and difficult to implement in the implementation of the provision for the execution of the racist crime "due to hatred", because it is vague and subjective. Amendments to the Criminal Code which proceeded with the revision of the law of adults on the basis of international scientific data and international conventions on the rights of the child. Guys born in prison will be able to grow up at home with their moms. The abolition of infamous formal law, which is another extremely important provision. This law in recent years has been a fear for journalists and the free exercise of journalism and has led to self - censorship phenomena. Its abolition was a constant and strong demand for all the journalistic world, as well as for international journalistic associations and foreign rights organisations. There are many more important provisions, such as criminalisation of all acts, massages, blood donations, etc., which exclude some with the sole criterion of origin, colour or religion, which are an actual manifestation and propaganda or advertising of racism. We want people in this country. Greeks, but people. In conclusion, I would like to say that we must put an end to logic that leads us to the middle ages, such as attacks on homosexuals, whether physical or verbal, corresponding attacks on immigrants, aggregations only for Greeks, blood donations only for Greeks, verbal attacks on public dialogue. The example of the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, which had absolutely sexist content, can hardly be forgotten by all of us. Those who do not fit in a model, which is now built on rotten foundations, the model of the white middle man, cannot be driven to the social margin. We do not live in times when the world has not come to an end if the earth is moving or if it is flat or not, nor are there supposedly arguments about whether a man has a larger brain than a woman or a white man from a nigger. To conclude, I would like to say that this bill lays the foundations for a more democratic country, a country in which we will all fit and all, regardless of color, gender and race, and should be the beginning of a great debate on these issues. I'm voting for the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u489	Thank you, Mr. Stephoe. Mr Emmanuelides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u490	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, every piece of legislation that comes to the vote is equivalent to a social birth. If it is premature in relation to social matching, it will not prosper in developing and fatality will cause problems in its operation. If it is beyond coordinated time, it creates huge problems in society, since it does not serve the purpose for which it had to operate in the crucial time. As we know, we are in the second case, as the draft law on all sides has been accepted in time uncoordinated with society, since, for a long time, it has troubled social groups which should be entitled to exercise individual rights, as all the UN and European law Charters define. Unfortunately, once again, our country is not in coordination with real social and historical time. But it is never too late for us to treat this kind of arrhythmias. I will not have to argue about the need to implement this law, in that social groups for years have been afflicted by a terrible conception which society has, a fearful perception, which is nothing but a mirror of its own weaknesses. Because fear is nothing but a sense of consciousness of our weakness. I would like to say that this bill in its fourteen articles is accompanied by a number of articles denounced by all - I would say - the opposition political forces as a slogan of legislation, which ultimately creates a deficit of a unity of legislation. But here too, let me point out that it is organic. In spite of the thematic differences, it is essentially based on the same principle. And who's that? It is the principle of the defence of individual rights and, according to Pericles, the operational introduction of the legislation is the one which lays down for the benefit of the wrongdoers. And all that is contained in this bill is nothing but a treatment of defending the unjust, wronged, not in the narrow sense of the term, but in the context of the situation in which various social groups are found. For example, allowing the imprisoned mother to live in motherhood and to enjoy the child exactly this required affection, I think it is a legislative arrangement that just serves the protection of individual rights. The same will happen for minors, whose infractionality brings them to the point of imprisonment. To cure this weakness and respond positively to this social hardness is a sign of a left-handed system that society needs at all times. So - and I close with it - the bill is very functional social and is a testament of social sensitivity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u491	Mr President, may I have the floor for a word on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u492	Are you asking for a point of order or would you say a word?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u493	One word on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u494	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u495	Because it is not going to talk much, you have to bear in mind - with the 23.00 limit that has been set - that there are amendments and that there are also rapporteurs who are likely to ask for them to be put down and support the amendments, such as one I have tabled and I would ask to support them. So, there's got to be time for this. If you consider the procedure to be final, you should respect the principle of rotation. To be altered. It's three - four that are parties other than SYRIZA. Not everyone in SYRIZA speaks because that's - excuse me - monologue.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u496	But that's an electronic system. What can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u497	What can I tell you? If you want, I can leave you and we can't talk at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u498	Please, ladies and gentlemen. I cannot understand why we are all talking together. Anyone who wants to ask why he has something to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u499	I'm making a suggestion.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u500	I'm not talking about you. I would like to say, however, that I recalled the decision taken by Parliament, that the debate ends at 23.00 p.m....
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u501	Sure. The debate, not the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u502	If the matter is raised, as you are currently putting it, then the plenary will decide at 23.00 p.m. 'Cause right now that we're having this conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u503	He can't decide at 23:00. If it is final in 23.00, then 22.45 ́ the order must be stopped and those who have to talk about the amendments and the debate must be closed at 23.00 ́. Otherwise, it's an extension decision. I beg your pardon, if it were a budget, which ends at 24 a.m., you would be right, but the budget is respected. The change has not been observed here. When the time is short, the rotation shall be observed. We don't know that, do we? We need to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u504	Look, the list, as you know, becomes...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u505	No, when the conversation is fuss and ends at a certain time, there is another procedure for listing, for setting up the list. Okay? And what we're asking for is what? Let's say what we think.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u506	That doesn't lead anywhere right now. I would ask that we move forward to talk to the Members, because if the debate is opened, the Members will not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u507	I want a minute and a half, as many as the others do.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u508	Mr President, I would also like to speak for a minute on a point of order, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u509	You're welcome, Mrs. Vaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u510	I would suggest that we continue with the list of speakers and, in turn, by 22.45 seconds, and then the Minister should place himself on the amendments and move on to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u511	In other words, you are proposing that this House be asked at the moment if it agrees to stop the procedure, instead of the 23.00 p.m. decided by Parliament at 22.45 p.m. That's what you're saying. If there's no counterpart...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u512	How isn't there? Can the Minister only speak a quarter?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u513	You suggest...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u514	Those who have to support an amendment and have something to say about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u515	Are you proposing to develop the amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u516	No, I don't have any dentistry. Those who have tabled amendments, which are four, who will probably not be able to speak - may not be anyone or one - to have the right to support the amendment and to say a word about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u517	As long as they are in the short term, I find it reasonable, but the plenary must decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u518	So the Minister's delays won't come in. Because there is a late Ministerial amendment that will come in. What do you set me as a criterion for the 'long term'?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u519	The Rules of Procedure of Parliament say that it is the amendments that are actually being debated in time. The Minister has the right...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u520	So there will be no delaying of the ministers. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u521	No, the Minister has the right to bring in the last minute an amendment from the Rules of Procedure. Whether it's the Rules of Procedure, we're talking about it, but it's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u522	Who told you he had the right until the last hour? Did you say that next door?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u523	Not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u524	No, that's wrong. That's not true. Are we going to do more of the Rules of Procedure? That's not true. Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u525	In the new Rules of Procedure, we have changed it, Mr Kegeroglu, but so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u526	So we won't talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u527	That is the Rules of Procedure, Mr President. What does Mr. Kegeroglu want now? He speaks, speaks again and speaks again. How many times will he talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u528	We are wasting our time, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u529	We're moving on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u530	I mean, we won't talk, Mr. President. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u531	Mr President, other colleagues want to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u532	Please, Mr. Ballis...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u533	There's limits to fascism. Did you hear what I said? There's limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u534	"Does Fascism have any limits?"? What are these things? Is that what you're talking Mr President, he accused you and us of being fascists! "There are limits to fascism" he says! You should answer that. Get in position!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u535	Mr. Excellency has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u536	No, please, it's heavy what my colleague said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u537	Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u538	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased about the draft law we are discussing today. It is one of these moments that not only verifys the role of MP in the Constitution, but also in relation to man. Today is a landmark day for a group of our fellow citizens. The bill is about a significant number of our people. These people now cease to be treated by the official state as citizens of the second category. A group of our fellow citizens, who experience social exclusion, can today, after many years of deprivation, ridicule, but also official state contempt, smile. Obviously, I am referring to the legendary coexistence pact. However, before I speak about this, I would like to refer to the provision concerning the detention of children of detained mothers, and I will tell you why. Because the denominator is common. It's the restoration of injustice. It's respect for human beings. It's dignity. Colleagues, what does man define? From his color and religion? From his economic or cognitive level? From his physical or mental health? From his sexual orientation? From his luck to inherit wealth or poverty? And if a baby is born in prison, is a convict born? Will he serve the sentence he inherited from his mother, or will he avenge himself from the mother's presence and care? Today, in the Greek Parliament, this injustice is corrected. The detained child of a child of up to five years will be able to remain close to him in the critical first years of his or her life, or even ten years, since the child is unable to serve because of disability, by serving the sentence or part of the sentence in the form of house arrest. The only bars facing the babies of the prisoners will be those of their cribs at home, with their mother. I'm proud to be present at this moment. And now let me refer to the coexistence agreement. Ladies and gentlemen, I am thinking of you in New Democracy and PASOK who have been ruling alternately or together in recent years, eighteen countries, recently, and Cyprus recognises some type of cohabitation agreement for homosexual couples and additional nine countries in Europe recognise the political marriage of a bond. And while in Greece the homosexual couples were completely uncovered, your government came in 2008, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and excluded the gay couples from the possibility of concluding an agreement. In other words, you have excluded from the institution those who needed it, since they cannot use the institution of political marriage, when in other countries the pact was first introduced in favour of homosexual couples and was introduced in order at least to provide for an equalisation of the rights of social security, labour and tax law, but also for one partner to be able to inherit the other. And while the slap in the condemnation came from the European Court of Human Rights two years ago, you were deaf and Greece was left with Lithuania the only countries that left homosexual citizens completely uncovered by the cohabitation agreement. The Court of Justice was clear in its judgment of November 2013. The exclusion of homosexual couples constitutes an unacceptable discrimination against them and therefore homosexual couples must be explicitly included in the Cohabitation Pact. Today, on behalf of the New Democracy, I distinguished a mood of self-criticism, but once again he was looking for arguments not to vote for the bill, with honour, of course, the discrimination of the members of the New Democracy came to Step and supported the bill. For the rest, you are representing the Europeans, you who consider your resignation - how do you say it - 'the guardian and guarantor of the country's European course'. Explain to us. What is Europe for you? Is it just the euro? Is it not Europe with common principles and values? Is Europe not respect and diversity? Is Europe not the culture of acceptance? Is Europe not the hug of the different? What Europe are you talking about at last? Today's minority rapporteur, as a competent Minister of Justice on your days, has arrived at this time to say about political marriage between homogenes that "we are a country that respects traditions, respects the nature of man and cannot be allowed at least with that government and with that minister of marriage." This also happened in the European press, which spoke about homophobic statements by the Greek Minister of Justice. Do you want to tell us that the European partners who have introduced the marriage between the sexes do not respect the nature of man? So this is for your well-advertised Europeanism. So, ladies and gentlemen, there can be no category one cohabitation or category two cohabitation. In a modern European state, there can be no discrimination between citizens in the rights arising from their cohabitation and sympathy in life. As for the traditions you invoke, what traditions do you refer to? We know of a tradition, the tradition of freedom, the tradition of the right to self-determination, the tradition of equalisation. We today, with the draft law under discussion, contrary to you, are extending democracy. We are broadening rights. This tradition is our honour today, ladies and gentlemen, and I am pleased that, as a representative of the Greek people, I am today joining my voice with those who claim justice and I am part of this moment for the country and the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u539	Thank you. Mr Ballis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u540	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall begin with the same point, which Mrs Bakoyannis has started with several hours ago: I am not legal either. That is why I must admit that at some point I was confused in committee by the legal arguments that have been exchanged. I am, however, simplifying perhaps for many - and especially legal - thinking that a law exists or rather has to exist to protect the rights of the few, the minorities, because many, the majority have both the power and the ability and especially the means to form the framework for the organisation and development of society in accordance with their own views. I therefore believe that it is precisely for the protection of minority rights that this bill comes too. And it is regrettable that in the refusal of the bill we are debating today, there are forces that meet their thoughts, attitudes, their way and their perspectives for the world itself and for society, they are divided by an abyss. Because the extension of the cohabitation pact and the family couples is about the legal safeguarding of the rights which everyone can and must come. Mr Athanasios also told the committee - he repeats them to Mr Davaki at this time too. So it is about protecting the freedom of personal choices from racist and sexual attacks. It is also about the compliance of our country with European legislation and the corresponding European conventions. This draft establishes private autonomy and respect for private will, based on the principles of equality and solidarity in the regulation of personal relations. And it is precisely on the basis of the principle of equality that the will of the legislator is expressed in this bill. The relevant legislation we will have will now be able to go hand in hand with the existing social reality in this area. It was also criticised that this bill merely enshrines some private choices. However, since it is stated that the cohabitation agreement for it to have effect must also be lodged with the register, in fact this private case also becomes public. By voting on the bill, the way opens, to identify couples who will sign it for work, insurance, pensions and inheritances, which so far have not been recognised. And with a President-in-Office's decree, which will be adopted within six months, there will also be issues relating to public service law, labour, insurance, taxation and pensions. Recognition of family relations and the link between the two parties to the cohabitation agreement allows for the application of the provisions of hereditary law after death, as well as the recognition of the partner as a relevant person and for medical matters, which is currently not the case. Only applies to the respective rights of couples of herds and couples who have a marriage relationship. It is also important that, among the other provisions in the bill, there is provision for the establishment of the National Council against Racism and Misallody, for the policy to be pursued. I think that the vote on this bill will be an important moment for Parliament, but also for each of us, because for the first time we are called upon to take a clear, reasoned position and view on issues that no one, and much more so, the state itself, did not admit to exist, but to relations that no one recognized them. Let me end by making a special point in an article in the bill, which may not have anything to do with the coexistence agreement itself, but it is about the core of the relationship that this bill has with democracy, with freedom of opinion, with freedom of will. This is Article 37 of the bill, which finally changes the suffocating and intimidating framework of the press and journalists, which intended to limit journalistic control and criticism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The amendment of Rule 37 finally comes too late. The Commission's proposal is based on Article 10 of Regulation (EEC) No 1178/82 and the amendments made in 1995 by Article 10 of Regulation (EEC) No 1178/82. 2328. In the press, we have a name for this law, which is more widely known as 'formal law'. On the basis of this formal law, therefore, there were exterminated penalties for journalists and media for offences made by the press, while the prescribed thresholds for damages are many times higher than logic, and often abolish the constitutional principle of proportionality, as has been decided by the Ice Bay House plenary in its decision in May 2010. Finally, this is abolished. Finally, the fall of the press and journalists will not be able to exist with the fear of these strict laws that exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u541	Thank you, Mr Ballis. Please, Mrs Stamaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u542	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are debating today and with its vote, our country will no longer be in another area of sad, embarrassing exception. Since 2001, the political marriage of homosexual couples has been recognised by the majority of European countries, from North and Latin America, South Africa and New Zealand. Many countries are preparing to recognise him, such as Australia and Slovenia. Greece is not in them. In fact, even in Greece, the cohabitation pact has not yet been extended to homosexual couples. It is a pity that Greece has not taken the lead in this matter, since since 1983, the Greek family law has followed international developments and on many issues the Greek legislator has clearly made progressive choices, but also an entire movement, the women's movement, since the 1980s, had raised issues of gender, sexual orientation, sexual liberation, free cohabitation between homosexuals and heterosexuals, official recognition by the state of these choices, legal safeguarding and their equalisation with what the law provides. So today's bill comes to cover a big gap. Ladies and gentlemen, experience has shown that equality towards laws also affects social equality. How does the state urge citizens to deal with people as equals when it does not guarantee this equality? Our country is one of the last countries that does not officially recognise the homosexual relations. This bill is a very important step in modernising legislation in the direction of protecting the rights of all citizens equally, and we should be very careful, because this law is the only legal recognition of the rights of couples in the same way. First of all, it is very important to fully recognise the family relationship between the two - this concerns all the couples who choose to enter into the cohabitation agreement - and therefore all the rights related to taxation, hereditary, health insurance, pensions, residence permit, the acquisition of citizenship and any other legal provisions on family protection. Of course, this bill has too many gaps, it leaves too many things outside. He leaves outside, first and foremost, the civil marriage between the gay couples. He doesn't deal with the issue of the childbirth of gay couples. It leaves out the children who grow up in family and who must be protected by the law. He's leaving the trans people out. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Even today, a moment ago, we had to go out so they could get in the Chamber and attend our meeting of people who had permission to enter, but had no identity. We must immediately legislate to give these people the identity of the gender in particular. In my opinion, we should very soon open up a social dialogue so that we can legislate and get to some things that are already matured, in my view, in Greek society. This bill also contains other amendments, which, in my view, are very positive. I don't have much time. I believe, however, that it is very important to regulate mothers and young children in prison. Already a movement has begun and developed and is called "No child in a cell. No child in prison." Therefore, the law today comes to regulate this change very positively. I think the bill, I would say, is more generally for the invisible people of this society, for homosexuals who claim the right to family life, for immigrants and refugees threatened by the rise of racism and fascist attacks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr. President. I'll be done. For children living in illegality, for children living in prison.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u543	You said two minutes? Two minutes is the second of your speaking time. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u544	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u545	You are wasting time with your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u546	For teenagers who give all-Greek examinations in prisons and manage to go to higher education institutions and cannot attend. We should not celebrate, because all these are self-evident rights. But because, in order to safeguard these fundamental rights, many years of struggles have taken place, we can be happy that today we have finally taken a step towards the justice of these people and of their struggles. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u547	Mr. Psychogios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u548	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's draft law on the Cohabitation Pact, we are continuing to satisfy a mature demand, a step towards equality, so that there are no second-class citizens in that country. And this comes after other bills, like that of citizenship. We are also finishing with hypocrisy, which forced us to do nothing about matters or to regulate them poorly, as if there were no issues or as if we were not seeing them. Previous governments had sought to regulate this issue or other issues or, much worse, they had chosen to hide such issues under the carpet. It is, ladies and gentlemen, a mature demand, a broader democratic demand, a progressive demand and not a narrow left. It gives an air of equality, which concerns society as a whole, is about homosexuals and heterosexuals. Furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, because it has been heard many times in this Chamber - it is not a question of what everyone does in his private life. What we are interested in as a parliament and is what we are discussing is the issue of rights in the public area, the obligations of the state, which are not a private matter and must be regulated by institutions. A number of articles have been heard from the Opposition, including the fact that there are many articles in this bill. And maybe for other bills that were accurate. However, if we look at the importance of many of these articles, that should not be mentioned as an excuse. Furthermore, we cannot "fly the ball on the platform", referring to other issues that have been sufficiently answered - red loans, the parallel programme - when we discuss such an important bill. Finally, I think that the issue of childbirth has been covered and finally resolved by the relevant Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek state officially does not foresee anything for the gay couples. However, in Greek society thousands of such couples live who, although they have chosen to unite in the framework of a stable family relationship, face serious difficulties at both personal and property levels. These are issues that need to be regulated. Is the Greek society mature to accept a symbiosis pact like this? The answer is that Greek society has taken many steps on many issues. After all, we must not forget that societies are not matured by themselves, but by specific political and social processes but also by institutional intervention. The coexistence pact can play that role. Today, then, all heterogeneous and homosexuals are experiencing major problems in many and different fields - and it is true - work, health, education and freedoms. However, the individual struggles - parliamentary or movementist or social - for the resolution of some of them are linked to the other problems and not only this, but also strengthen the effort to change the country's course and the left-wing government. This bill also contains other provisions that are very important. I will not go into detail because I don't have time. It is, however, extremely crucial that the legislator now uses objective criteria to investigate whether or not a crime is racist. It is also very important that the punishing framework for traffic is now reduced. It goes as a slight offence or decriminates when it is negligently or in order to defend a wider social interest. There is also Article 49 for the uniform examination of lawyers, irrespective of their time in which they are registered in the courts, Article 60 concerning the appointment of judicial officers, which is facilitated and accelerated, Article 61, which responds to a consistent request by lawyers and lawyers in the courts for the existence of a doctor for their needs in the main judicial magistrates, as well as the amendment to the allowance for dangerous and unhealthy work for administrative officials in detention stores. Finally, there are important provisions concerning mortgages, which lead to the proper functioning of mortgages, and there are also specific amendments for mortgage workers to extend the corrigendum correction, as well as specific committees dealing with the reform of the codes in the next period. Of course, let us say here that today's draft law was the product of a legislative committee, because we are not making committees so as not to deal with the problem. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has so far taken a consistent path to defending human rights, whether this is the refugee issue with the tactics that we have followed, or this particular coexistence agreement. We are determined and will continue on the same road forcefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u549	Mr. Jamaklis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u550	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that the need to modernise the legislation on the cohabitation pact, on the one hand, by extending it to both gay couples, on the other hand by recognizing family ties between the parties and the two types of the pact. The Greek Constitution, paragraph 1 of Article 2(1), Article 5(1) and Article 9(2), and the ECHR, a combination of Article 8 and Article 14, protect the principle of equality between citizens and respect for diversity. Furthermore, Article 21 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union expressly condemns discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. Therefore, there is an obligation on the state not only to legislate but also to guarantee the opportunity for everyone to enjoy their rights equally. This obligation is reinforced by the adoption of various relevant directives and resolutions recommending the abolition of discrimination against homosexuals. It is worth mentioning that Greece is condemned by the European Court of Human Rights in the case of "Valianatos and Others against Greece" for violating Articles 8 and 14 of the ECHR, on the grounds that v. 3719/2008 excludes gay couples from the possibility of concluding a cohabitation agreement. The need for the recognition of family ties between the parties to the cohabitation agreement arises as an obligation of the State, in addition to the existence of real situations in need of regulation, and the significant expansion of the concept of "family life" in many of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, which reflect modern social perceptions. The absence of a regulatory framework for homosexual couples in our country - from the last in Europe - also raises practical issues such as asset assurance, insurance, taxation and so on. Similar practical issues exist for heterogeneous couples who have concluded a cohabitation agreement, e.g. cohabitation, taxation, health insurance, social security benefits, pensions, the possibility of obtaining residence and citizenship, refusal to lodge a statement before a court at the expense of the partner, recognition of the partner as relevant for medical matters, etc. The deprivation of these rights is incomprehensible in a modern and democratic state. All obstacles and rights reserved shall be removed by individual arrangements. The bill, however, also contains important arrangements for other issues. The establishment of the National Council against Racism and intolerance is a necessary regulation to address the resulting need for strategic planning and coordination of all initiatives against racism and intolerance, now taken by state institutions. The proposed amendments to the Criminal Code are all necessary with the most important of those concerning detained baby women, crimes with racist characteristics and minors. Similarly, the proposed amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure, as well as those introducing regulations relating to the penitentiary and detention stores, are necessary. Finally, I have the opinion that the introduction of the principle of proportionality into the provisions on civil liability of the press as a result of both the formation of a case-law of the Ice Bay is going to accomplish its purpose, which is expressly the compromise, understanding and relief of justice by a large load of cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u551	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr. Panayotarus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u552	Thank you, Mr President. As Mr Tsipras said, the Prime Minister, this bill should have been here for months and it was a mistake of SYRIZA. But where did Mr. Tsipras get time for this bill, when he brought memorials, prerequisites, bring the "brows" to our homeland, to get the property of all Greeks, to do all of this. And after passing with the Independent Greeks a large number of bills, which even the PASOK - New Democracy - DIMAR had not thought about, he said to end the Greek people, except in economic terms, to end them from an ethical point of view. Because with this draft law, the symbiosis pact, you are forming society and morally. And in conjunction with the "blue bill" - the bill on the nationality of anyone who enters our country - you are making an indirect genocide of the Greeks, by altering the population from foreigners, from the other religions, from the fact that you are trying by every means to hunt, drive out the traditional family and bring another type of families, who will not be able to perpetuate the species. The bill you are bringing today is an unnecessarily pre-negotiable prerequisite to the new order of things - of course it has nothing to do with nationalism, as one spokesman of the SYRIZA said - a prerequisite for secret or obvious European Union, global dynamics and the various ethnic NGOs, those who so much love and disguise them in various ways, huge funds, at the expense of the homes and nations. It is these NGOs that, for my part, are being cut and interested in the good of people, the rights and the defence of human rights, pluralism, diversity, democracy, open borders, gays, trans, lesbian, sexually unspecified, all of them. And, of course, these NGOs, which are proven to be financed by countries such as Saudi Arabia and Qatar, and which, of course, would not dare these countries at all, because in these countries, they are throwing them off the roofs. But that's not where you say a word. Muga for these countries. These are the NGOs that are financed by Soros and others, who only want to be the dissolution of nations and countries. They are the ones who, on the pretext of the tree of supposed human rights, do not want to see the forest of the undisturbedness of all moral values in this place, who have been trying to convince us since this morning on various arguments, which sound nicely, but are very poor, such as the fact that this bill will facilitate various functional situations of the daily lives of homosexuals, as if this state with the laws that this government has brought and voted for, which has made life inevitably of all Greeks, is interested in any functional facilities. We've heard that you're cut off on homosexuals' assets. On the substance, since it is a notarial act, do a notarial act. Does this have to do with whether they're going to pay less inheritance tax? Is that the whole problem and the issue? But on the other hand, with the measures you bring, you have taken the property of all Greeks: homosexuals, heterosexuals, all of them. Now, what's the problem of caring and cutting yourself off on assets? You have used examples of different countries, such as Ireland, a Catholic, conservative country, where by a referendum 63% voted 'yes' to marriages of homosexuals. Why don't you do a referendum here? Why do you not mention the example of other countries, such as Slovenia, which by a referendum said 'no'? Invite various scientific studies, but always a card, because until the 1970s homosexuality was not linked to human nature, but was a psychopathological diversion. So they said the documentaries and scientific studies during the 1970s, but then for everyone to become culturally correct, as it must not make you "do" by the world governor, you changed it and put the term "differentity" or, if you want to talk about science, that Professor George - Alexander Magakis said in his book, where he taught legal science about the "approximately sexual instinctive crime". Then the term changed. Also, can I ask you something? Really, since we're talking about blood donation, have you seen the form when someone goes to give blood? Shouldn't you change it? Why does it forbid homosexuals to give blood? Is there a scientific explanation for that? Is it racist in all the hospitals in Greece, in all the hospitals in the world? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u553	We're entering the end of the conversation. Please, shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u554	Who are you, who are you swaying, humiliating, trying to degrade the traditional family in any way? Why do you keep talking about a family, but do you go through with it? You have spoken about the lifting of injustices and the surrender of rights. Yeah, we've seen the rights for those who don't want AMKA, for those who don't want the electronic identity, we've seen the rights of the laundry that you're chasing them, and the rights of many others. And tomorrow others will come and ask you for rights: animals, pedophiles, parquets, demonstrations, all of them will also ask for rights. You're gonna give it to them? A lot has been mentioned. You said adoption isn't in the guise, but it's the next step. You said a lot, we don't have time to see, because you want to finish this bill. In any case, the National Council against Racism and Misallody is fortunately established, since the Greeks find their point there and for the racism that exist from all those who want the dissolution of this country. And for all those who said that we and all those who say that, we are regression ensembles, say that if you are going to be backwards, because you want your traditional values, the honor, the dignity, the customs of this place, to believe in the threefold homeland, religion, family, yes, we are backwards and anything else you want. God put his hand on it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u555	Last speaker, Mrs. Vaguea. Not even for five minutes, Mrs. Baja. The Minister will be closed with brief intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u556	The MPs never speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u557	Thank you, Mr President. As you know at the beginning of the month, some time ago, Minas Hadjisavvas left life, one of the best actors of our generation and a great, good, kind man. Minas never hid his sexual preferences. After his death I made a statement: that in the memory of his personal agony I will try to pass the cohabitation pact through the House. I've been attacked for this statement. Tonight, however, I am pleased that this agreement will be voted on. I believe that this evening the House is taking a courageous step, one step, against a huge social hypocrisy. Because we all know that there are many marriages, 'orthodox', but they are hiding a huge hypocrisy. It is the 'dickers', as our people say, of other sexual preferences. And this happens to many respectable citizens, both from the field of art and politics and the Church. In these marriages, these families grow children. Is this environment healthy? I'm asking you. Guys born just for social coverage and not real love? Well, let's stop this hypocrisy. It is true that we are facing a very critical turning point, not only for our fairness, but for society itself. I would even say that the issue, apart from legal, is primarily social and humanitarian. Today we are not simply going to vote for the extension of an alternative legal form, but today we are voting against loneliness, an antidote against the social exclusion of forced marginalisation and stigmatism. Some may be worried, upset, even offended. Every young man is afraid of him. It's going down. He's aggressive. This was in 1952, which women had the right to vote when in 1953 Helen Scoura, the first Greek Parliamentary, passed this threshold between equals. Society is evolving, morals are changing, people are moving on. And when this is done in the direction of freedom, the safeguarding of human dignity, fundamental rights and love, I say that this development is good. More: It is imperative, because it is about improving human life. I will simply tell you that under other facts in another corner of the earth, the Supreme Court of the United States of America accepted a few months ago that the union of two people gives flesh and bones to love, which, as a feeling, goes beyond death. None of those who are asking for this legal guarantee of their cohabitation do the same as we traditionally mean the cohabitation of two people. Instead, they respect her and appreciate her so much that they claim her for themselves. Here I want to tell you a thought and if you want to take it into consideration. With this symbiosis pact, people of their own friend, two friends, say, two friends, or two friends, who don't have such a sex preference, don't want to be a sex couple, but they've been left alone in life, two elderly people, two elderly friends. They'll be able to unite their lives, unite their properties, their money and live together, legally. Think about this parameter, too. It's something no one mentioned here. So I believe that this bill that we are spending tonight is mainly humanitarian and against loneliness. Today in the Greek Parliament, let us try to eradicate the colors: black, white, red or anything else. Let only the white, the color of love remain in the name of Christmas coming. I wish to all of you: Happy holidays, Merry Christmas and love to all of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u558	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u559	Thank you, Mr President. The debate on today's bill began with several issues open and under clarification. I think we are ending up with most of them, most of them. I believe that some misunderstandings have now been lifted. I have heard many times during the debate saying that we will have a torrent and a torrent of amendments. I think it was minimal. The parliamentarians were only two, and the ministerial four. In fact, the Secretariat invited me to repeat them. I've already announced them, of course. You don't hear them for the first time now. The two had even been announced since yesterday. It is one of the changes in the region where the publication of executions takes place, the other concerned the termination of the trial, the third concerned bankruptcy law and the start of the operation of the insolvency officer's institution, and the last one was the one that Mr Papagelopoulos supported, which was introduced previously on the occasion of statements by Mr Athanasios and Mr Venizelos. It is the only point on which I would like to make a final clarification, because in the debate beforehand, the discontinuation of the dialogue did not allow me to fully explain the regulation. We are dealing with cases, Mr President, where, on the one hand, revelation of a person can allow justice to bring cases with a very important object for the country, possibly with the benefit of millions and, on the other hand, it can only be that a document has been submitted by a citizen. In these cases proportionality, as a constitutional principle, is to take account of the main. This is a weighting of constitutional marginality, inter alia, because if the evidence is used, and Article 20 of the Constitution, concerning recourse to justice and the validity of justice, it is synchronised. In these cases, it is foreseen that the instrument may be used under legal conditions, if it is the only means of proof, if it is borne much more than the damage caused by human dignity. I think the other points had been clarified. We have certainly reached the end of a debate which has historical dimensions, because it changes institutions with a history of millenniums and I believe that this is what Parliament is honouring today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u560	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of law, the articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is adjourned: 'Cohabitation agreement, exercise of rights, criminal and other provisions' and its vote will be taken separately. Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 27, 28, 42, 46 and 56 of the draft law have been applied for a roll-call vote by Members of the New Republic. I will read out the list of signatories to the request for Members to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for their submission. If there's no... Mr. Kyriazidis Dimitrios...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u561	Mr President, the Members are here. Show some tolerance until colleagues are here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u562	All right, we'll start with the next one. But mercy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u563	Calm down, Mr. President. Not "faithful". Christmas Eves of Mercy?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u564	All the MPs are here. They're out here and they're coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u565	I am talking about the general presence in rather than one vote. Calm down! Do not be understood by sacred indignation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u566	The mercy you said, though?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u567	So we're moving on. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter page 499a]] [[To enter page 501a]] In order to vote on the draft law in principle and on Articles 1, 15 and 29 and the amendment to the general number 112 and specific 6 of the draft law, a request for a roll-call vote has been submitted by Members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u568	I shall read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote of members of the People's League - Golden Dawn to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Michaeliakos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Aivatidis John. Here you go. Mrs. Vlachos Salvation. Here. Mr. Germenis George. Here you go. Mr. Gregos Antonios. Here you go. Mrs. Zaroulia Helen. Here. Mr. Ilioopoulos Panagiotis. Here you go. Mr. Caracos Evangelos. Present Mr. Cassidy Elias. Here you go. Mr. Kouzilos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Koukoutsis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. John Rabbit. Here you go. Mr. Michos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Barbarousis Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Panayotaros Elias. Here you go. Mr. Poppa Christos. Here you go. Mr. Shahinides John. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to request a roll-call vote of members of the People's Association - Golden Dawn. In order to vote on the bill on the principle and on Articles 1 and 46 of the draft law, a roll-call vote has been applied by Members of the Democratic Incorporation and Members of the River whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u569	I shall read out the list of signatories the request for a roll-call vote of Members of the Democratic Integration and the River to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Arvanitides Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Gregorakos Leonidas. Here you go. Mr. Theocharopoulos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Kegeroglu Vasiliou. Here you go. Mrs. Kefalidou Hara. Here. Mr. Koutsoukos Yiannis. Here you go. Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Constantopoulos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Maniotis John. Here you go. Mr. Papatheodoros Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Scandalidis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Jellonis Michalis. Here you go. Ms. Friday (Egy) Christophilopoulou. Here. Mr. Amyras George. Here you go. Mr. Theocharis (Greek) Theocharis. Here you go. Mr. George Mavrotas. Here you go. Mr. Jason Fotillas. Here you go. Mr. Spyridon Danellis. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote by Members of the Democratic Alliance and the River. In voting on Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 27, 28, 42, 46 and 56 of the draft law, a request for a roll-call vote has been submitted by the Members of the New Democracy whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u570	I shall read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote of Members of the New Republic to establish whether the number required by the Rules of Procedure is available. Mr. Kyriazidis Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Consolas Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Besiropoulos Apostolos. Here you go. Mr. Davakis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Yoyakas Vassilis. Here you go. Mr. Katsaniotis Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Bukouros Christos. Here you go. Mr. Georgios George. Here you go. Mr. Javaras Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Charakopoulos Maximus. Here you go. Mr Vagionas Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Kelles Christos. Here you go. Mr. Stylos George. Here you go. Mr. Vlassis Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Tsiaras Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Athanasios Charalambos. Here you go. Mr Anastasiades Savvas. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for the roll-call vote of Members of the New Democracy. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u571	Ladies and gentlemen, the adjourned sitting is repeated. Do you accept the votes provided for in the Rules of Procedure in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u572	The House agreed. There will be a roll-call vote on the principle and on Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 27, 28, 29, 42, 46 and 56 of the General Number 112 and a special 6 of the Legislation of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘Cohabitation pact, exercise of rights, criminal and other provisions’. Receiving the principle and articles of the bill say ‘HA’. Not accepting the principle and articles of the bill say 'OH'. The voters say 'PARON'. Mrs Anastasia Gara is on the list by SYRIZA and Mr.Ioannis Kefaliannis from New Democracy. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u573	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that we have received letters from colleagues from the Bureau expressing intent to vote will be recorded in the Minutes of today's sitting, but not in the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u574	The vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and take the result. [[COMMUNICATION]] Ladies and gentlemen, until the count is completed, we will continue by voting on the rest of the articles of the bill. Will Rule 16 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u575	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u576	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u577	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u578	Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u579	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u580	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u581	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u582	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u583	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u585	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u586	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u587	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u588	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u589	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u590	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u591	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u592	Article 20 was therefore accepted as approved by the Minister by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u593	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u594	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u595	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u596	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u597	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u598	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u599	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u600	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u601	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u602	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u603	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u604	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u605	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u606	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u607	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u608	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u609	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u610	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u611	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u612	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u613	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u614	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u615	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u616	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u617	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u618	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u619	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u620	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u621	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u622	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u623	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u624	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u625	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u626	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u627	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u628	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u630	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u631	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u632	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u633	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u634	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u635	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u636	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u638	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u639	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u640	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u641	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u642	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u643	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u644	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u645	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u646	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u647	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u648	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u649	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u650	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u651	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u652	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u653	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u654	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u655	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u656	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u657	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u658	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u659	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u660	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u661	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u662	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u663	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 49 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u664	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u665	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u666	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u667	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u668	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u669	Article 49 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u670	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u671	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u672	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u673	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u674	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u675	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u676	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u677	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u678	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u679	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u680	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u681	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u682	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u683	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u684	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u685	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u686	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u687	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u688	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u689	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u690	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u691	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u692	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u693	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u694	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u695	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u696	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u697	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u698	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u699	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u700	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u701	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u702	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u703	Article 59 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u704	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u705	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u706	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 61 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u707	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u708	Article 61 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u709	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u710	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u711	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u712	Article 62 was therefore accepted by a majority. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number of 128 and a special number of 22?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u713	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u714	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u715	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u716	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 128 and a special 22 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number 129 and a special number of 23?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u717	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u719	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 129 and a special 23 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number 133 and a special number of 27?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u720	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u722	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u723	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u724	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u725	Therefore, the amendment with a general number 133 and a special 27 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number 135 and a special number 29?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u726	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u727	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u728	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u729	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u730	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u731	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 135 and a special 29 was accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 132 and a special number of 26?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u732	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u733	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u734	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u735	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u736	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u737	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u738	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u739	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 132 and a special 26 is accepted by a majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Mrs Mitafidis Trinidad and Mr Karanastassis Apostolos request permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u740	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights forwarded to the House on 18-12-2015 in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and the n. (EC) No 3126/2003 ‘Prime responsibility of the Ministers’, as in force, criminal proceedings concerning: Former Minister of the Environment, Spatial Planning and Public Works Georgios Souflias and former Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and Decentralisation Apostolos Andreoulakos. The Ministers responsible for Agriculture for 1996-2010 and so on. Stefano Tsitourides, Georgios Anomeritis, George Dry, Savva Tsitourides, Evangelos Bassiakos, Alexandros Close, Sotirio Hatzigakis and Catherine Batzelis. Former Minister of National Defence in 2003 Mr. Yannos Papantoniou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u741	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. A total of 249 Members voted. In favour of the principle of the draft law, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 193 MPs. Against the start of the bill, i.e. 'OH', 56 MPs voted. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "A Co-existence agreement, exercise of rights, criminal and other provisions" was accepted in principle by a majority. [[Upright Members applaud vividly and protractedly]] Article 1 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 191 MPs. 'OH' 58 MPs voted. Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 2 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 191 MPs. 'OH' 58 MPs voted. Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 3 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 191 MPs. 'OH' 58 MPs voted. Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 4 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 191 MPs. 'OH' 58 MPs voted. Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 5 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 191 MPs. 'OH' 58 MPs voted. Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 6 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 191 MPs. 'OH' 58 MPs voted. Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 7 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 190 MPs. 'OH' 59 MPs voted. Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 8 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 191 MPs. 'OH' 58 MPs voted. Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 9 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 189 MPs. 'OH' 60 MPs voted. Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 10 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 189 MPs. 'OH' 60 MPs voted. Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 11 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 189 MPs. 'OH' 60 MPs voted. Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 12 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 191 MPs. 'OH' 58 MPs voted. Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Article 13 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 191 MPs. 'OH' 58 MPs voted. Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 14 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 193 MPs. 'OH' have been voted 66 MPs. Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Article 15 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 167 MPs. 'OH' have voted 79 MPs. 'PARON' were adopted by 3 MPs. Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 27 of the draft law: 'NAI' were voted 155 MPs. 'OH' they voted 91 MPs. 'PARON' were adopted by 3 MPs. Article 27 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 28 of the draft law: 'NAI' were voted 155 MPs. 'OH' they voted 91 MPs. 'PARON' were adopted by 3 MPs. Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 29 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 191 MPs. 'OH' 58 MPs voted. Article 29 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Article 42 of the draft law: 'NAI' have voted 164 MPs. 'OH' have voted 82 MPs. 'PARON' were adopted by 3 MPs. Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Article 46 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 150 MPs Question No 81 by Mr Gasóliba i Böhm (H-0427/98) Subject: Human rights 'PARON' were voted 18 MPs. Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Under Article 56 of the draft law: 'NAI' voted 196 MPs 'OH' voting 53 MPs. Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. The amendment under number 112 and a special 6 of the draft law: 'NAI' were voted 152 MPs. 'OH' they voted 94 MPs. 'PARON' were adopted by 3 MPs. Therefore, the amendment with a general number 112 and a special 6 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u742	We are entering the vote of the nominated article of the bill. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u743	The latent article was unanimously accepted. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "A Covenant on Coexistence, Enforcement of Rights, Criminal and other Provisions" was accepted by a majority on the principle and on the articles. Do you agree to vote on the bill as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u744	Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u745	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u746	By a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u747	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: ‘A Covenant on Coexistence, Exercise of Rights, Criminal and other Provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u748	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u749	The House has given the mandate requested. [[Vibrant and long-standing applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have been distributed the minutes of Friday 23 October 2015 and Saturday 24 October 2015 and the House is asking if it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u750	The minutes of the sittings of Friday, 23 October 2015 and 24 October 2015 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-22-S2-commons.u751	With the consent of the House at 2.05 p.m. the sitting on Thursday, 7 January 2016 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
