ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. In other words, it is not the case that the Commission has not yet taken a position on REFERENCES Please beg the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Tsirkas, to read the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u2	The Members of SYRIZA and so on. Nektarios Santorinios, Sia Anagnostopoulos, Helen Aylonitis, Socrates Vardakis, Ioanna Giftani, Anastasia Garas, Mimis Dimitriadis, Zianis Zianna, Kostas Zacharias, Annetas Kavadias, Ilias Kamaras, Maria Kanellopoulou, Froso Karasarlidou, Michalis Kritsotakis, Aglaia Kritsis, Alexandros Meikopoulou, Triantafylos Mitafidis, Andreas Michalidis, Nicholas, Yiannis Michalos Micholonakis, Geramis Kyrimos Balaouris, Vasilios Tsilios, Panagiounis Kyrimos Kyrikos Kyrikos, Nikolikos Kyrikos Kyrikos Evrikonosiakos Evrikosilisianis, Greece, Greece Antilisilisilis Evrikonos Krikonos Ekou, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece, Greece Antilios Evrikonosilikonosilios Ekounis Ekoulisilis Ekoudis, Greece, Greece. The SYRIZA MPs Mr Fotini Vakis and Stephanos Samoilis report to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism with which the airport director of Corfu highlights the problems that arise in the response of the Airport's exceptional needs due to the legislative framework and bureaucracy. SYRIZA MEP Mr Theodoros Parastatis presents a report to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, according to which the association of workers of ‘ALUMINION MAKEDONIA S.A.’ (ALMACO) requires the immediate payment of its employees and their rehabilitation. SYRIZA MP Michalis Kritsotakis submits a report to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs that the Director of the School of Second Opportunities of Tylissos, Heraklion, calls for the conversion of the School of Second Opportunity Tylissos into a building of 5th EPAL Heraklion for the better service of its apprenticeship potential and for the upgrading of its operation. The Members of SYRIZA and so on. Hero Diotis, Anna Vageias, Dimitris Vettas, Kostas Delimetros, Panagiotas Deli, Chrysula Katsavrias - Siropoulou, Spyros Lappas, Alexandros Meikopoulos, Nikos Michalakis, Simeon Balis, Sakis Papandopoulos, Katerina Papanatsiou, Christos Simorelis and Danais Jeka - Kostopoulou report to the Ministry of Health, with which the President of the Panhellenic Federation of Nefropathia exposes the problems and shortcomings of the artificial kidney units in the 5th Health Area of Thessaly and Stereas Greece. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Mavroudis Voridis reports to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs that the Association of Parents and Gardens of the 2nd Elementary School of Nea Peramos Attiki presents a number of questions relating to organic and economic problems of this primary school and calls for their immediate solution. The Member of the New Democracy, Christos Bukoros, shall submit a report to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, according to which the TEB is requesting the timely legislative regulation of retroactive increases in the insurance contributions of engineers. The Member of the New Republic, Mr Eleftherios Augenakis, shall submit a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy requesting the non-signature of the registration authorisation by way of derogation from the EU- prohibited nematode of dichloropropene. Mr Spyridon Dannelis presents a report to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism that the Federation of Enterprises for Rental Apartments - rooms of East Crete "Knossos" highlights the problems created by the lifting of the procedure of a special adhesion of tourist accommodation and calls for the settlement of the issue. The MPs of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos, Diamanto Manolakos and Manolis Syndrakis refer to the Ministries of Finance and Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, in which the Municipal Council of the Municipality of Ikaria seeks to maintain reduced rates of VAT in the Aegean with a view to abolishing it in the widest popular consumption. MEP of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos reports to the Ministries of Labour, Social Security and Finance, by which the National Federation for Authentic Spectrum Rights calls for the improvement of conditions of retirement of people with autism. PASOK MEP Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou submits a petition to the Ministries of Finance, Economy and Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, according to which the Chamber of Development of Greek Islands presents a resolution on maintaining the special VAT arrangements in the Aegean islands. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Christos Bukoros presents a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy that the "Agricultural Association of Purios" of the Magnesia Prefecture calls for the transparency of the declaration procedure for trees and for the selection criteria to be guaranteed in order not to prejudice the legitimate interests of farmers. The Member of the New Democracy Mr Maria Antonio presents a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, according to which the Agricultural Association of the Municipality of Kastoria denounces the conditions required for the payment of the compensation to farmers in the regional unit of Kastoria due to the quartzisation of May 2015. President Spyridon Danellis presents a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, according to which he denounces shortcomings in the human potential faced by the Hersonissos Police Department of Heraklion. The MPs of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos, Diamanto Manolakos, Manolis Synthrakis present a report to the Ministry of Health that the Workers' Association of the General Hospital of Rhodes calls for the immediate approval of recruitment of permanent staff and adequate funding of the hospital from the state budget in order to meet its increased needs. MEP: Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos presents a report to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, according to which a citizen is required to rehabilitate the STAGE programmes of the Evros region. PASOK MEP Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou submits a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy that Mayor Viannos of Heraklion is calling for exceptional funding to be granted for the rehabilitation of the municipality of Vianno due to disasters suffered by the prefectures of January - February, 2015. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Christos Boukoros presents a report to the Ministry of Health that the Panhellenic Federation of Nephropathies highlights significant deficiencies in the clinical units of artificial kidneys of the 5th Ministry of Thessaly - Central Greece in medical and nursing staff, as well as in logistics, and calls for their proper functioning and for their immediate response to their problems. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Konstantinos Tsiaras reports to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy that the Mayors of Lake Plastira, Karditsa, Sofadon, Palama and Mousakio applicants for additional appropriations and the necessary administrative decisions for the construction of a sewerage network and waste water treatment plants within the water catchment area of the Plastira Lake. The Members of the River and of the Commission of the European Communities Nikolaos Orphanos and Kyriakos Charakides report to the Ministries of Home and Administrative Reconstruction, Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, according to which the Citizens' Movement of Photographs of the Prefecture of Evrytania calls for the immediate restoration of damage to the municipality's infrastructure from the floods that hit the region. The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinck, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinz, Mr Pinhetten. Emmanouil Synthrakis, Diamantos Manolakos and Stavros Tassos report to the Ministries of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction and Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy that Mayor Viannos of Heraklion Law is requesting exceptional funding from the municipality in order to restore the damage suffered by the municipal infrastructures from January, February and March 2015. Parliamentary of Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos presents a report to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, according to which a student of the Architecture School is required to find a definitive solution to the question of student transfer. PASOK MP Vassilis Kegeroglou reports to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs that the Association of Natural Crete presents a series of proposals and direct interventions in the teaching of physics. The MP of the New Democracy Mr Stefanos Gikas presents a report to the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights that the Association of Corfu expresses its strong concern at the malfunctioning of the courts of Corfu by the lack of judicial officers, which is increased due to the empty organic positions and constant transfers and secondments of their officials. The Member of the New Democracy, Eleftherios Agygeakis, submits a report to the Ministry of Finance that the Association of Tax Free Professionals in Heraklion highlights the problems of farmers in submitting tax declarations and the determination of their income by proprietary parcels, proposing a solution to substantiate proprietaryity per acre of land, based on the alleged land rents that were in place until the financial year 2013. Mr Kyriakos Harakidis presents a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, according to which the regional director of Eastern Macedonia - Thrace highlights the insurmountable difficulties in the certification of farmers for the rational use of pesticides. The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinck, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinz, Mr Pinhetten. Stavros Tassos, Diamanto Manolakos and Emmanouil Syndrakis report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy that Mayor Ikaria is calling for the immediate treatment of spatial planning problems relating to Ikaria. Parliamentary of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos presents a report to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, by which the Students' Group of the Movement of Criminal and Social Theology raises objections to the establishment of a Department of Muslim Studies at the Orthodox Theological School of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. PASOK MP Georgios Arvanitidis submits a reference to the Ministry of Economy, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, in which the Mayor of Volvis of Thessaloniki by letter points out the need to inform him of the works of the metro of Thessaloniki by "ATITI METRO" and the problems that have arisen and demanded their timely and effective response. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr.Notis Metarakis presents a report to the Ministry of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, by which the Anonymous Company of the N. Chios S.A. calls for the approval of recruitment of permanently qualified personnel for the proper functioning of the company. Eleftherios Augenakis presents a report to the Ministry of Finance by which the Chamber of Development of the Greek Islands expresses its universal opposition to the application of the measure for the exclusive use of credit or debit cards for all transactions above 50 to 70 euros on the islands. Potami Kyriakos Harakidis submits a petition to the Ministry of Finance requesting the exclusion of the country's chambers from the arrangements of the draft law entitled "Travel travel within and outside the territory", which is in public consultation. The Members of the Communist Party of Greece, Sakis Vardalis and Helen Gerasimidou, refer to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, by which the IKA of Pensioners' Association of Kavalas Law seeks the lifting of the appeals against pensioners from IKA, their exemption from interest and judicial expenses and the settlement of payment due in a hundred monthly instalments, which will not significantly reduce their pensions. MEP Dimitrios Kammenos presents a report to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, with which the Association of Owners of Corfu buses highlights the problem by electronic recording the hours of start-up and termination of employment and rest periods of the drivers of Corfu's tourist buses. Mr Georgios Arvanitidis presents a petition to the Ministry of Finance, by which the Municipality of Volos, by letter, quotes: A. Proposal for a legislative amendment to Article 115 of Decree-Law 1929 on the administration of public property and B. Proposal for a Directive supplementing Article 4 of the EC Treaty with regard to the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions. 3127/2003 'Registration - Register' on the conditions for the use of real estate by the public, on the arbitrary use of public property parts of the Community of Asprovala by the Municipality of Volbia. The Member of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Kasapidis presents a petition to the Ministry of National Defence, in which the Union of Military Regions of Western Macedonia lists a memorandum on military personnel working hours and requests the implementation of the designated legal framework of work (santa hour), as well as a statement as to whether the activities and services of the managers are calculated in the working hours or are further than that. Parliamentary of New Democracy Mr.Eleftherios Aggenakis presents a reference to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, by which the Agricultural Cooperative Harakas and the Agricultural Cooperative of Messaras by letters of the applicants for the final evaluation of the programmes of the Organizations of Oil and Work Organisations of Crete and highlight the need for their funding to remain irreversible. Mr. Kyriakos Charakides presents a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, by which the Association of Producers Cooperatives of Drama is requesting an extension to the submission of a Single Application for Aid 2015 by at least one month instead of the 2-6-2015. The MPs of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Sakis Vardalis and Mr.Eleni Gerasimidou report to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, with which the Trade Union of Officials of Food Enterprises of Thessaloniki - Pierres - Halkidikis and the Private Staff Association of the Prefecture of Imathia Applicants for the payment of wages and the withdrawal of redundancies from the company "ALMPATROOS". Parliamentarian of the Independent Greeks Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos reports to the Ministries of Culture, Education and Religion, Infrastructure, Shipping and Tourism, in which the Association of Professors of the Ministry of Tourism highlights the imminent problem of the abolition of the professional schools of the Ministry of Tourism (ESA) and calls for the interruption of the memorandum policy of the previous governments, which creates serious problems for work and education. The MP of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Andrianos presents a report to the Ministry of Health, in which the vice mayor of Argos - Mycenas highlights the malfunctioning of health services due to the subjugation of the Health Formation of the Regional Iatrician Mile of Argolis, which is made up of Mile, Kiveri, Skafidakis, Keffidakis, Kefaliri and Greek doctors. The MP of the New Democracy Mr.Leuteris Augerakis reports to the Ministry of Finance, in which the Cultural Association of Saint Catherine the Municipality of Heraklion, by letter, calls for the implementation of a number of requests concerning the adjustment of the objective values of the properties of their area. O Deputy of the JRC and Vice-President of the Parliament Mr George Lambroulis and Members of Parliament, Mr. Sakis Vardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy that the Agricultural Associations of the Trikalon Prefecture "ANIOXIXI", point out the need to meet their demands as a measure for the protection and relief of small and medium-sized farmers in the region, who are in a tragic economic situation. New Democracy MP Athanasios Davakis submits a report to the Ministries of Economic and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction that the Vice-President of the Lakonia Regional Regional Community denounces the implementation of the draft law on travellers' expenditure within and outside the territory, pointing out that it will be impossible to grant daily compensation for all officials, in particular the Regional Units. The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinck, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinz, Mr Pinhetten. Eleni Gerasimidou, Liana Kanellis, Christos Katsotis and Nikos Karathanasopoulos report to the Ministries of Finance and Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, according to which the Urban Non-Profit Agency GEA - GRAMMO, ERATO, COMPLET, in view of the change in the regulatory framework of VAT, requires a uniform VAT regime for cultural creation. The Member of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, shall submit a report to the Ministry of Health, which shall inform the mayor of Amorgos of the failure to support the newspapers by agricultural doctors and 30 days of the month, resulting in a deterioration in the provision of health services to the citizens and shall set out his proposals to resolve the issue. The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinck, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinz, Mr Pinhetten. Sakis Vardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou report to the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, in which the Federation of Agricultural Associations of Evros "The Independence" highlights the problems faced by the producers of Evros and calls for the fulfilment and resolution of their demands. MEP Mr Dimitrios Kammenos presents a report to the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Internal and Administrative Reconstruction with which a citizen presents a proposal to address the erosion of the coasts of the Corinthian Gulf. O Deputy of the JRC and Vice-President of the Parliament Mr George Lambroulis and Members of Parliament, Mr. Sakis Vardalis and Eleni Gerasimidou present as a reference to the Ministry of Health the resolution - a memorandum from the institutions of the Carditsa Prefecture about the problems and shortcomings in the health services of the region. Parliamentary of the New Democracy Mr Leuteris Aygeakis presents a reference to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, by which the Association of Foreign Language Centres (PALSO) of Heraklion by letter highlights a number of serious issues in the draft law on education and calls for the immediate removal of the relevant provisions. The members of the JRC and Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinheiro, Mr Pinck, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinriez, Mr Pinri, Mr Pinz, Mr Pinhetten. Stavros Tassos, Diamantos Manolakos and Manolis Syndrakis present a report to the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs by which the Association of Educational Primary Educational Education of Limnos "ARGYRIOS MOSHIDIS" expresses its protest about the abolition of the organic location of educational informatics at the 2nd Municipal School of Myrina and calls for the re-establishment of the abovementioned organic position.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much to Mr Vassiliou Circa. At this point, the reading of the petitions was completed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question report as well as the reports - Questions of Friday, 12 June 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure). 1. The question asked by MP Dodecanese, the Radical Left Coalition, Mr. Nektarios Santoriniou, to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, the Environment and Energy, about the pricing of electricity in the desalination plants. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 310/2-2015 by MP Kozani of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Kasapidis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the protection of Greek honey in the European Union. 3. 291/29-5-2015 topical question by MP B' Thessaloniki of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Photos Grassikos to the Ministers for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy and Finance, on the payment of compensation to farmers from the Organisation for Payments and Control of Community Aid for Guidance and Guarantee (OPEKEPE) Macedonia - Thrace. 4. The 280/27-5-2015 topical question by F' Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Parliament of Greece of Potamios Greece Mr Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the National Strategic Planning of Air Potamos. 5. The Question No 288/29-5-2015 by Evia MP of the Independent Greeks Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the need to extend the regulation of the hundreds of doses to PPC. 6. The 301/2-2015 topical question of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement, Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the implementation of the new joint ministerial decision on the distribution of pastures to farmers in the country. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure). 1. The question under number 295/2-2015 by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Chrysolas Katsavrias - Siropoulou to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy about the use of water resources of the Plastira and Sokovos lakes. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 311/2-2015, a topical question by Deputy Serres of New Democracy Mrs Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the injustices resulting from the unequal distribution of pastures in accordance with the joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy. 3. The question by No 293/2-2015 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Kasidiari to the Minister of State, concerning the licences of television stations, the loans to the media (SMEs) and the equal promotion of parties. 4. The current question by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, on the delay of the meeting of the Central Board for Environmental Authorisation (CSDP) to approve environmental conditions of certain projects and activities. 5. The 231-18-5-2015 topical question by Congressman Pireos of the Potamios Mr Nikolaos Orphanou to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the restoration of injustice for the owners of photovoltaic roofs. 6. The Question No 252/20-5-2015 by MP Evia of the Independent Greeks Nikolaos Mavragani to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy on the implementation of the decisions of the Regulatory Authority of Energy and the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission and in the case of ‘LARCO SA’. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of State, concerning recourse to the justice of television stations to the decisions of the Minister of State on the basis of which they were charged with retroactive frequency charges. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP Achaias of the Independent Greeks, Nicholas Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of State, concerning the recourse to the justice of television stations for decisions of the Minister of State, on the basis of which they were retroactively imposed on them. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Evrytanias of the Radical Left Coalition, Thomas Kotsia, to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, concerning the suspension of all licenses and projects in progress for the installation of large numbers of renewable industrial installations (BATURA) in mountainous volumes, rivers, and even in areas within the NATURA 2000 network of Evrytania. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Georgios Lambroulis to the Minister of Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy concerning the withdrawal of logging permits in Magnesia. 3. The question asked by Mr Georgios Amyras, Member of Parliament, Mr George Amyras, Minister for Productive Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, regarding Greece's participation in the European Pollution Restriction Policy processes, both from the new and existing lignite plants.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The first question under number 298/2-2015 will be discussed first cycle of the Prime Minister of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Health, on the problems in the health centres of Preveza Prefecture. The Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, will answer. Mr Barkas, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, the question of my question concerns the major problems in the health centres of the Preveza Prefecture. In Greece of the 21st century, the systematic underfunding of the public health system, which had been promoted by previous governments, by the Memorandumary Governments, has created a tough reality in the field of primary care. In addition, the administrative transfer of the four Preveza Health Centres from the Preveza Hospital, in the 6th RS, under Law 4238/2014, aggravated their already problematic situation, as the transition took place without programming and with budget cuts. The result, due to the subsidization of the 6th RCD, is: Difficulties in the payroll of staff, the supply of materials and maintenance. In this context, Philippida, Pargas, Kavali and Thesprotikos health centers have great shortcomings in medical, nursing and prison personnel, which endanger their elementary, basic and secure functioning. At the same time, the problem is exacerbated and tends to take uncontrollable proportions due to the cut of about 40% of the expenditure on newspapers, on the basis of the 2015 budget. The recent decision of the 6th Ministry of Health of Parga and Canalaki in June, as well as the decision by the Filippiada Health Center to on-call for 15 days a month, caused a turmoil for local society and raised reasonable questions about the future of public care. It should also be noted that our region's needs for access to reliable health care are growing during the summer months due to an increase in tourists visiting us. Because, Minister, health is a fundamental right for every resident in this country, you ask: What action will the Ministry take to provide the Preveza Health Centres with appropriate staff? What action will the Ministry take to ensure that health centres' newspapers cover all month with the necessary staff and in accordance with the scientific legal limits of safe invention? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u6	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Madam President. My dear colleague, we have said many times that the description currently being made of the problems of the public care area is entirely accurate, regardless of the political wing from which this description comes. Reality is tough. We have a health system in full disorganization, and especially the part of primary care in a state - I would say - of dissolution literally. One-and-a-half year after the notorious reform of the n. 4238, we have completely broken structures in the large urban centres - the old multi-medical offices of the EEA - and terrible functional problems in transition to the new administrative status of rural health centres. What the government is seeking to do is to stop this process of disorganising and depreciating the public health system, which, in our view, was done in the past period on the basis of a political plan and not just because of budgetary difficulties. With a political plan, the health system was downgraded, because the political perception was that the cost of the crisis shared in the world of work and the social state. This political plan is over. We have the political will to support with absolute priority and bias, let me say, public care in our country and especially in primary care where there is a timely deficit of decades - I would say - and which we are trying to cover through a serious reform which we are organising. In the next few months, we will have the opportunity to present a comprehensive plan. We've set up a department working group. Tomorrow its final form is presented to the political leadership. And I think that through a dialogue with the stakeholders, organisations, collectives in the field of primary care, we will proceed. In your prefecture health centers, in fact, staffing problems are particularly important. What has been launched is the appointment of two rural doctors for the Parga Health Centre - which we know very well that it is particularly burdened by the tourist season - and also by a curator of 2 pediatricians at the Kavali Health Centre. At this time we are necessarily trying to make the best possible use of the little human resources. We're forced to move into emblematic solutions. And emblematic solutions often involve injustices and inequality. The 6th PPP is closely following this issue. I think it makes the best possible effort. And through the plan of exceptional support for the health system with permanent and subsidiary staff, which is under way - you know that we have already announced and now the first nine hundred permanent staff posts after six years in the health system - we believe that we will gradually move towards covering these huge gaps, which are particularly present in the islands, the ancestors and tourist destinations of the country. The wound left this policy of austerity and cuts of an entire five-year period cannot be quickly healed. In this direction, however, we are moving as quickly and well as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Barka, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u9	Minister, I would like to point out that the effort made by the Ministry of Health in these four months of new governance is titanium. The abolition of the 5 euro ticket, the planning of the recruitment of four and a half thousand people to meet the needs of hospitals and health centers, the payment of the newspapers of nurses and medical staff of hospitals left pending and the signing of the CYP to ensure health and safety throughout the world, including uninsured people, is in the right direction and relief of those who paid for the marble, paid for the crisis, paid the Memorandum of the last five years. I would also like to make it clear that I fully understand the fact that the development of health issues is in line with the process of negotiating the government and your negotiation procedure with the partners. I would also like to say that I support this government and put my back on its struggle so that the memorial policies can also end once and for all, get away from the policies of the memorials and the world to breathe. I put my back on support for public health and education structures, because they - as you rightly pointed out - were, but the world of work was the ones who paid for the marble, the aim of the Memorandum Policies. I am delighted to hear that two rural doctors will come to the Parga Health Center. This will solve many issues, because the Paris region, due to tourists, is increasing its population in the summer months by 100%. Also, the pediatrician at the Canalium Health Center will solve problems. It is clear that Mr Samaras' government Law 4238 was not intended to build the health system, but to disorganise it and further invade private health systems. I support with all my powers the public health system. What I wanted to point out to you, Minister, is that the cost of operating health centres, only for the payments of newspapers - and I want you to take this into account - is low. It was cut by 40% by this law, by the previous budget, and it's nothing. And these areas can't do alternate on-calls. Parga and Canalaki separate them a 30-mile distance. They have a lot of tourism. Also, the Philippiada Health Center cannot do just 15 days on the record because it covers a huge rural area. They mainly go to farmers who, as you well know, because you are from a rural and tourist region, have frequent injuries. They go overage, elderly people who need access at any time to health centers. What I would like to point out to you is that the money needed for these three health centres to work all month is minimal. And I think we should, together, give this race so that we can ensure the monthly operation of health centres, that is to say, on-calls all month round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u10	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. We know very well that today citizens are suffering and being financially burdened to have access to health services. There has been a process, as we call 'patient privatization' of the health system in recent years. This, too, was done with a plan. The plan was to transfer the cost from public care to the insured and the uninsured who were actually found to be excluded from the health system. What we are seeking is with nails and teeth to keep public structures up at this time. That's the big bet for the government. And, of course, this is what the human resources of the system are, which under very poor conditions, under pressure from working conditions, under conditions of wage impoverishment and labour extermination, really offers valuable services. We respect that, recognize his work and try to be as well as possible in payments to him. There have been many problems in procedural and legal matters that we have had to deal with. We paid the first quarter of 2015 newspapers to hospital doctors, not the doctors of most health centers, mostly for bureaucratic reasons. The DPOs were not prepared to do any on-calls. For the first time, the PPPs, the administrative mechanism, were invited to make on-calls and there was a lack of preparation. That is why in some areas there have been problems, but not for economic reasons. The money was there. I believe that this will be dealt with shortly and in the next payments in June this issue will also be addressed. For the other staff, we know that there was a legislative lack of v. Date of birth: 4316. We solved it and the payment has been made. I think that by the end of June it can also be paid in the first quarter of 2015. The truth is that there is no mechanism for early meeting the needs of the public health system. The institution of the subsidiary has a five-month schedule for the placement and for the subsidiary, the non-medical staff are over six months in the current procedures. We have made a legislative change and we have a shortcut in time too long. Now this change is beginning to take place. There's a ministerial decision that came out the last few days. I understand that this year, especially the summer season, will be a difficult time for the public health system. The budgets are too deficits. You are right that there have been cuts in both operating expenditure and on on-call and overtime for other staff. Imagine that at a time when the demand for services from the public system has increased by 30%, expenditure has fallen and 30% of the human resources have decreased. This practically leads to functional black out. If we do not manage, then, through a sustainable agreement with the partners, to take the financial breath needed to reform the hospital budgets, we will have serious problems in the last few months of the year. The Ministry is moving in this direction. The government is also moving in this direction. We really want to prove that we mean what we say, that we are with public care and that there will soon be considerable changes in the everyday life of workers in the system and, above all, in the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The second time under number 308/2-2015, a top-stage question by the Member of the Republic of Attica, Mr. Mavroudi Vorides, to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction, on measures to reduce crime in the Neocto-Saudi Egyptians, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Member. We now go to the fifth, with number 304/2-6-2015, a top-level question for the first-round question of the MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health, on the problems of operation at the General Hospital of Rhodes. The Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos, will answer. Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Madam President. The General Hospital of Rhodes, as well as the hospitals and health centers in Kos, Kalymnos, Patmos, Leips, Agathonisi, Lero, Symi, Tilos, Kastelorizos have literally been bent under the unbearable and cruel anti-population policy that has now been imposed by previous governments in the field of health and which is perpetuating with its attitude the new co-government with the extension of Memorandum 2 and the new Memorandum 3 that is about to sign. At the hospital in Rhodes in particular, the appalling shortages in medical, nursing and auxiliary personnel have led, according to the workers themselves, a large number of staff to be ill by themselves. The eight and a half thousand days off, due to the hospital administration in addition to the 2014 permits to date, demonstrate the degree of intensification of the work and the elimination of staff with serious consequences for both their health and the patient. The number of staff currently active amounts to less than 1/3 of the necessary. In other words, they are security staff, and as a result of problems in the operation of surgery, the pharmacy, delaying interventions, postponing one-ways, with what this means to patients' health, but also to the workers' health. The huge cuts in the financing of hospitals mean that overtime is unpaid, that there are shortages in health material, but that workers - especially in washing machines - work in unacceptable conditions due to the lack of maintenance of the building. The new Internal Service Agency, which was published on 31-12/2012 and is currently in force, is considered unacceptable because it reduced beds, closed and merged clinics and departments, abolished organic positions of doctors, nurses and other qualified personnel needed by the Rhodes Hospital to cope with the needs of the hundreds of twenty thousand people of Rhodes and the Dodecanese, as well as the hundreds of thousands of daily visitors. Also, the whole island is served with just two ambulances, when only for the emergency, especially during the summer season when the Rhodes population is doubled, at least five ambulances are needed, of course, with the same staff. We ask, Minister: What measures will you take to recruit permanent, full-time and full-time staff of all the specialists and branches needed by the Rhodes Hospital, with full-time and insurance rights, in particular for the immediate recruitment of ninety nurses, ten traumats, ten medical machines operators, ten manufacturers, three physico-therapists and five administrative staff? Because they are needed immediately because of the huge lack of staff and in order to grant the eight and a half thousand days off and the 2014 permits. What measures will you take to provide the full and adequate funding of the hospital from the state budget to meet the increased needs and to provide all patients with absolutely free services, medicines, health and other material, regardless of whether they are insured or not? Also, what measures will you take to pay all due attention to the workers and doctors of the hospital from night and night, overtime and on-calls, to the renewal and supply of new ambulances and similar staff, to meet the needs of the city and health centres in villages all 24 hours a day?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, once again we are discussing health problems. This time it concerns a large hospital that has a regional role in the Aegean, the Hospital of Rhodes, which is indeed within the overall path of degradation of the National Health System in recent years, has also suffered significant cuts in both resources and human resources. I looked through the evidence from the agency. The hospital budget over the last three years has been reduced by over 50%. Operational expenditure was 21 million in 2013 and now, I see, in the 2015 budget is 12.5 million. We have said that these budgets put the survival of the public health system at risk. Our political will is in the context of a sustainable budgetary agreement on debt and on the development and prospects of the country - in these days, its tough political negotiation within the institutions of Europe is being completed - to have the opportunity in practice to strengthen public care and the social state. The wounds of the National Health System precisely because of these cuts over the last five years are too many and cannot be healed quickly. I said to my colleague earlier that there is no early provisioning mechanism for human resources in the health system. It's a long time, even though we've been trying to reduce times. The crucial issue is that - and rightly so - you highlight the great pressure that has been placed on the human resources of the system. There is a vocational neutralization syndrome at strong rates today in the health system, the so-called Burn out syndrome, which is now about 30% of nursing staff, particularly in the areas of increased pressure and responsibility, such as closed intensive care units, etc., but also the emergency departments and the specialists. We know this reality and believe that, in addition to the collapse of the financial and material adequacy, there is a huge risk of the demolition of people's morals, who really under adverse conditions give their best self to keep hospitals and health centres upright. We have said that for us, public care is a priority. The first moves and the measures we've taken confirm this. In the ninety-six permanent staff posts after six years at the Hospital of Rhodes there is the provision for sixteen nurses - three IPs, seven TEs and six others - and four other staff - two for the microbiological laboratory and two for the X-ray. We believe that this is a very small, of course, aid. But it will be followed by a more extensive plan to meet needs, which we are working on and believe that in June we will be able to proclaim the rest of the positions of permanent medical nurses and other personnel, where the needs of special departments that create a great deal of burden on the daily lives of citizens, such as oncological departments, such as intensive care units such as artificial kidney units, etc. We will try, my dear fellow Member, to take all the necessary and possible measures at this time of difficulty to strengthen the public health system. This is a top government commitment. At the same time, we want to relieve and facilitate citizens' access. The moves we have made and the removal of the access ticket and to facilitate the coverage of uninsured persons create additional needs to strengthen the health system. We are determined to go through this through well-thought out and established steps.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u17	Minister, I would really like to see what you are saying positively, but the act, life proves that the way you are moving is contrary to what you say you want to do. Keep going on Memorandum 2 and now you're about to sign a new Memorandum. The measures you propose with the forty-seven pages, if not taken even more, will further reduce the income of workers and people's populations by increasing VAT, by maintaining the EMS, by maintaining and increasing the solidarity contribution, by privatising everything, by ports and airports. So there is no prospect of it saying that workers and people will recover to some extent the losses they have had over the past five years and, more importantly, that they will be able to obtain incomes that can meet their current needs. Nevertheless, despite all the budgetary narrowness you say there is, you have found EUR 500 million to provide for the resumption of aircraft, to monitor the movements of immigrants by the navals. That's where money was found! You're saying you'll split the burdens on the havings. Do you not tell me, do you intend to abolish any of the fifty-six shipowner tax exemptions, which only earn 10 billion euros every year? Shipowners pay 15m euros of their supposedly inexpensive income when seafarers pay 55m euros! So how do you say that you really want to secure money so that you can solve health problems when your policy takes away income from workers and people and delivers it to the usual favourees? Because they are essentially the ones who have the real authority. That is why we are saying that real philosophical policy within the European Union and the capitalist system - because this is what this is all about - cannot be seen as a health issue. Now with the supposed reduction of primary surpluses, what are you going to do? You will also be able to deduct other funds from health, education, welfare, so that you can obtain funds for the supposed investments you will give to make the big capital. Therefore, in fact the question you are moving is contrary to what the Greek people and the workers need. That is why we really believe that the only way to enable the Greek people not to get worse is a process of break-up and conflict with this policy. We've said it many times and we'll talk about it again. Today it is a huge banner on the Treasury, which says: 'We have had enough of it, we have paid'. That's enough, that's enough! We cannot expect workers, people's mattresses to wait another hour. The needs are pressing and we cannot in the name of any agreement, which is surely anti-popular, hope that we will be able to resolve the problems that concern us. That is why we are saying a break with this policy, exiting from the European Union and NATO, unilateral deletion of the debt with popular power and socialisation of the means of production, because a break without socialisation of the means of production - that is, without sneezing off the wolf, because the teeth of the wolf are the means of production - you cannot have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u18	Minister, please, you have the floor for only three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u19	This political debate is interesting. My dear colleague, the Memorandum of Understanding was defeated in the elections on 25 January, and what we are living for is a difficult and painful transition to another political project, which puts above all people's needs and not the service of a non-viable debt. This political plan seriously, responsibly and consistently now the government in Europe's institutions. And because for the first time this main recipe has been called into question, that is why there is this appalling and unprecedented political conflict that is taking place throughout this four-month period since the elections. We believe, therefore, that because the needs of the people in our country are enormous, because the deficits - especially in the social state area - are blatant, because the humanitarian crisis, despite the efforts made by the government, is savage and is present and we know it, and that is why we have every moral, social and political argument needed to secure a fair and decent agreement for our country and for our society, and that is what we will do to the end. Obviously we are currently interested in ensuring the survival of the public health system, not closing up public structures and failing to collapse services very critical for people's daily lives, but of course, in order to solve the issue of sustainable funding and the health and social state, very big changes are needed and, above all, what we call redistribution of wealth. Only through a fair tax system that captures wealth at its source and can provide sufficient funding for a reliable social state can we hope for an upgrade of these services in the future. It is of course necessary to address the outbreaks of waste, the challenger of demand and corruption and the interests of the health system. It is necessary to set mechanisms on the basis of scientific criteria for monitoring the demand challenge and the substantiated care to be provided in the world. But in the end, the answer to the issue of fiscal deficits is to address the biggest reform pending in this country, which is tax reform. We believe that this is a prerequisite for this government to be able to implement its programme and its commitments to society in a fundamental way. So we have no political reason to continue to offer political immunity to the wealth that was taxing and concealing its income, whether in the banks abroad, in offshore companies or in real estate investments. We are determined to collide with this system of clipping and the interaction of major business interests, in particular with government procurement and the state, and we believe that this will also help us the lasting mobilisation of society that is demanding here and now that there are significant changes in the daily lives of citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We are now going to the first with number 1384/1-4-2015 question by Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, Member of the European Parliament, concerning the problems of the operation of the Centre for the Health of Lower Achaea. Mr Katsaniotis' question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u21	Thank you. Minister, the accumulated problems faced by the sensitive health area are constantly growing. Subscribing and sub-financing shall be common denominator. I do not want to abuse the question, but I cannot avoid temptation to make two very small reports. The level of accumulated debts of the EEA to doctors, pharmacists, is exorbitant and continues to increase, with everything that implies for the health services provided. I have pointed this out to my question on the debts of EEAS since 6 May 2015, under Protocol number 2313, which remains unanswered. The month's over. Allow me to refer much more quickly to the problems of the health system and health structures in the Achaea Prefecture. I shall mention a few examples. I'm not going in detail. The first example is the University Hospital of Rio. I'll say a very special thing. The image presented by the University's Radiotherapy Department, the uniquely organized section of radiotherapy for cancer patients in western Greece, due to serious staff shortages and functional problems, has a huge problem. It is called upon to serve a sixty-five-treated patient. We're talking about something very sensitive. It has the effect of forty-two cancer patients being on the exterior waiting list for radiation treatments and is the only one in western Greece. Also, at the General State Hospital of Patras "Agios ANDREAS" the problem is huge. Here comes the new unit, it's supposed to be ready, there's a problem with funding, a problem with staffing soon. Orthopaedic clinic can't do on-calls. In Kalavry, the autonomy you said in the election after all these months has not been implemented. The autonomy of the Kalavry Hospital, which was a request from SYRIZA MPs in the election, has not been implemented. Instead, the radiology doesn't even have a doctor, it's personal. He doesn't have a radiologist. We're talking about the Calavres, which have a ski resort all winter. Half the Kalavrita on-calls, especially the mountainous area of Kalavrita. There's a problem with microbiological, radiological problem. Going further into the health centers, I'll tell you a few reports, not from me, but from the people of the health centers and the reports they made on the 6th RCD: ‘Residue scheme in most health centres. The situation is dramatic in fact. It is not just a matter of remarks, but of problems that we face every day in these primary health units. For the first time, three times the phrase 'first time' is mentioned, and this has to do with the previous government, 'private and medical staff work on a permanent overtime basis, with on-calls who even touch forty hours of continuous service'. Six months they haven't been on the news. More specifically, there are serious problems in the Lower Achaya Health Center which make it difficult for them to function smoothly and by extension...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u22	Mr Colleague, please conclude, because the ministers are also in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u23	Yes, Madam President, I'm ending. The Lower Achayas Health Centre serves more than fifty-three thousand permanent residents. Especially during the summer months, because it covers all the beaches of western Achaia, the population is overcrowded. It is on the well-known axis of Patras - Pyrgos, a very difficult road and it is the Health Center that covers the largest area of Achaias Prefecture as well as the industrial area, a rural area with special conditions, land workers, migrants, a large concentration of Roma. The hospital's livestock maintenance is poor, it is missing 50% of doctors' organic locations and it is a huge problem on the part of the consumables. You ask yourself, Minister, from the date of your duties and until now, what action has been taken by the Ministry for Health Centres? Why are the on-calls of the rural and qualified hospitals on-site in health centres not yet paid? Do you intend to adjust funding for health centres? Four and a half thousand were the Prime Minister's announcement of new positions. How many are going to the Health Centers? What about the Achaia prefecture health centres and are there any new posts planned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u24	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u25	My dear colleague, the question was about the Lower Achaya Health Center, but I see that you have put the problems of all the structures of the county together. I understand that there are obviously problems in all these structures, but I am not prepared to answer all the matter to you. The picture you describe corresponds to about the image that exists in all public structures, either primary or secondary care throughout the country. The truth is that the Lower Achaya Health Center, as far as I can see, is one of the relatively best staffed rural structures available. This, of course, does not mean that there are no problems or that there are no difficulties, particularly in terms of payments. I have already explained that the fact that medical staff on-calls have not been paid to health centres is due to the fact that for the first time the OPOs have been called upon to fulfil this obligation, without having a mechanism and experience, and that has caused problems. In Crete, for example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has succeeded and paid for both on-calls of health centers and in another, two Ministry. In some areas there are problems, we are dealing with them, and I believe that in June there will be a payment. The overtime and nights will also be paid, empty and exceptional for the other staff in the first quarter, because that is where we have been faced with legislation. What is to be done as a reinforcement of this health center is a post of Member of the General Medicine for the Regional Medicine of Erymanism and also a post of curator of the Second General Medicine for the Lappa Metochiou Regional Hospital. These are two current posts and the appointment is imminent. The need for visitors to health centers from non-primary health care specialties, such as orthopaedics, ORLs, ophthalmologists, you mention, obviously predict, but with the problems that exist and the staffing of the corresponding sections in hospitals there is a difficulty. In any case, our understanding is to exploit the human potential and structures of the EMCDDA, where there are such specialities that need to be exploited at the same time in primary and secondary care. There is a project that we are working on, which will create an important reform section in the health system, focusing on primary care. It's changing the model. Our logic is that the nucleus of the sick will be the family doctor, the health unit and the neighborhood doctor. This goes beyond the medical center and hospitality of the system that had many years of HSH and was the cause of many distortions in operation and of course its cost. We believe that we will go to another concept, where the family doctor will be responsible for the overall care of the health problems of the sick, from prevention, promotion of health, pre-symptomatic control, monitoring of chronic diseases, preventive laboratory tests, to naturally refer them to the other stages of the health system. In other words, we have another culture, which must be gradually founded on the human resources of the system, but also on the population, which we are going to buy services in holistic care. I think that this will be an important development and we really want, in a landscape of dismantling and disorganising public care, to make some institutional changes in the next period, which give such a signal of another concept of health and public care. We also want to place a great deal of emphasis on the division of services, namely to have a population of responsibility and the logic of the proximity of health, structures, close to the everyday lives and lives of citizens. There is also, of course, a democratic planning and planning of health services. That's very critical. We want a project that will be implemented from the bottom, with the involvement of local societies, with the involvement of self-government, the services concerned as a whole with the public system and the social state and, of course, with the workers in the health system. So I think that we are going to another way of approaching these issues. We are going from health need to the political health economy and not as it is today, where the economy is dominated by both politics and health.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Colleague, would you like to use the right to dentext?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u27	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u28	You've spent time on your prototype, that's what I'm saying. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u29	Wait a minute, not three. Minister, the theories very well, the strategies that you say will be done are of great interest, but we need to see them and see them in practice. Announcing on their own is a hollow word. What I hired is that from the four and a half thousand you said you'd hire, we don't know when they're going to hire. Only ninety heard before. A lot of people are missing. So you're gonna have to answer that. The second is that the previous government, in the corresponding year, in the first quarter, had given 630 million euros for the health part, 400 million for late and 230 million for operation. The current government has given 43 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u30	You're making a big mistake!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u31	That's what I saw, and I can get it for you. If you have anything else, we'd be happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u32	You're a little back in the briefing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u33	It's okay. I said for the first four months. So what we need to talk about is that within the government of yours - because you are government - you have to tell us what you have done. And you have to understand that it has short feet to say about the past, the bad Memorials, the very bad Memorials, these bad people and us good ones. You have to say what you have done and you will be judged by what you are going to do. So we always have that in our minds and know you can't say in general we'll do that. You've got a unionist from the SYRIZA Commander of the 6th, so you have a very specific logic, too. You come here and do something you blamed the other guys for. You're in the same mistake and you're going to be in the same mistakes all the time. So let's judge and discuss what you're doing. Tell us what you're going to do about health centers and tell us specifically what your design is for the four and a half thousand. That's the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have the floor. Please keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u35	Although my colleague is causing me...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u36	You spoke six minutes ago!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u37	There is the Bureau, Mrs Canelley, to remind me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u38	We time the challenge.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u39	Mrs. Canelle, please. Minister, you're on your way now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u40	We, my dear colleague, have put in the administrations of the Ministry, not unionists, but people of public care. We didn't even put unsuccessful politicians...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u41	Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u42	All seven commanders of the DPO are workers in the public health system. And we did this consciously...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u43	Former candidate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u44	That doesn't mean anything, obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u45	It wasn't a failure, was it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u46	That's not how it works. That was not the criterion, my dear. The criterion was to be people of public care, to know the reality, to be able quickly to cooperate with human resources and to provide the necessary solutions to the accumulated problems and not to wait for a period of six months to be informed and to understand the reality. This is our main political choice. You said that we would be judged - of course - by the act. Obviously we will be judged by the practice and the results of the policy that we are going to implement. We are not better people, dear fellow Members, nor are we more socially sensitive. Our difference is that we have another political plan. This political plan prioritises the needs of people and social goods. That's our difference. You guys are neoliberal and you think...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u47	Everyone's talking about themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u48	Allow me. I answer politically.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Comrade, did I give you the floor? Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u50	I answer politically, I do not answer you personally. I'm not talking about you. The issue of social sensitivity is not a personal matter. It's a political matter. It's a question of what your understanding of priorities is. So you have a perception that the area of health can be a free market, competition and profitability. We believe it is an area for real needs, rights and social redistribution. This is our main political difference, and that is where the different hierarchy of our priorities arises. There is an emergency aid plan for the health system with both permanent and subsidiary personnel. This plan is in progress. Some of him showed up. In the next period, we're going to make further divisions. It is precisely because we are trying to work on these interventions with the criterion of democratic programming, to have one of the needs below, to filter them, to see the priorities and not to function with the well-known customer logic, the topicalisms and the factors of the past. This way of managing both the health system and the public administration for us is over. It was part of the bankruptcy and politics and economics of the country and we have no reason to perpetuate it. So this is the big issue in our view. And I think it would be much more sensible for you to recognise that the interventions, which have been made very specifically in recent years, have led to this grim reality in the health system, which obviously cannot be overturned in one moment. The issue of austerity is not judged in a moment. It will be an ongoing political struggle in the next period to slowly undo this tough mechanism imposed on society and the economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We are now going to the third with No. 290/29-5-2015 timely question for the first cycle of the People's League MP - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, on the incidents of attacks on facilities, executives and events of the People's League - Golden Dawn. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Ioannis Panousis. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u52	Madam President, my timely question would be unnecessary, it would be unacceptable if we lived in the rule of law. Because we are not living in the rule of law, and we probably have no state at all, we say and ask - so that the Greek people who are watching us will also know: In recent months there have been many attacks by organised criminal gangs against executives, facilities and events of the People's League - Golden Dawn. Indicatively: Serious candidate's injury following a bomb explosion. He's in the hospital, he's been in surgery all the time, and his life's at risk. Armed attack during an attack on Dominic Magnesia, with serious injuries of concentrated and extensive damage to the town hall. Also, attack at the offices of Mytilini, at the offices of Chania, as well as displaying threatening slogans outside all our offices throughout Greece. I mention Piraeus, the southern suburbs, etc. In all these cases police have failed to protect the physical integrity of law-abiding Greek citizens, as well as public and private property. Through well-known internet sites - we all know them - there are serious threats to new criminal acts indiscriminately, to the detriment of anyone who is related to our party and not to our party's websites, but to existing people. The perpetrators post provocative remarks urging citizens to take unequivocal action and against our lives - I have a personal example for myself. So in view of the fact that these actions are not symptomatic or isolated, but are being carried out, as we believe, on the basis of a plan, they are guided and completely drunk, is the Minister, Mr Panussis, asked today, which of these crimes, if any, has been brought forward by suspects, what results have been obtained so far by the police preliminary investigation? Within the framework determined by d.d. 141/1991, what measures does it intend to take to protect the abovementioned sensitive objectives, namely ours? In what ways will the Greek Police's plan be reshaped so that it can successfully fulfil its tasks and prevent the uninterrupted social livelihood of the citizens who are politically active in the People's Association - Golden Dawn? Also, what will it do to improve the effectiveness of the preventive, if it does, these repressive actions by the Greek Police regarding the crimes that continue to be committed against establishments, members and people associated with our party?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u53	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u54	Mr Colleagues, you will allow me to express two preliminary thoughts. Firstly, the protection of parties and MPs is an essential obligation on the rule of law and on the functioning of the society and does not depend on ideological convictions. Institutions are protected, not faces. Secondly, it does not mean police to prosecute the political opponents of the government in question. Police are an institution of democracy, protects and serves every citizen, independent of colour, religion, ethnicity, sex or ideology. Anyone who believes that there is a parliamentary democracy that despises the role of police and reduces the authority of each police officer, offers bad services to the city. While the reconciliation of the police and citizens has begun to take flesh and bone, it proves any of the naives or the wicked reinstatement of a climate of suspicion. Many times self - surprise prophecies work as a boomerang. In relation to the first part of the question - in my dentext, I will reply to the second - we are told by the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police that there have already been proceedings on the cases referred to in the current question, which are under way and have not been completed, with the exception of the incident of Mytilini, where four appeals were made with negative results. However, the litigation against strangers has gone to the Mytilini Prosecutor's office. Police investigations to identify all responsible persons involved in the incidents and in the present cases shall continue and be closely examined. Each data item shall be examined. If there is any new data on cases, we will inform you and will be provided in due course. I just want to point out that, due to the criminal nature of the investigations and the principle of secrecy governing this stage of proceedings, it is not possible to disclose information in any way collected in the context of them. However, because you have also made a comment, I will tell you something on the occasion of the timely question. The mild management adopted by the Ministry of Civil Protection does not grant democracy, so the rule of law, to any form. Because the rule of law and democracy serves the police at the time of violent incidents. We will not let democracy be replaced by various cultures that threaten our lives, property and ultimately our city.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Before giving the floor to Mr Pappas, let me make a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-eight students and students and four teachers attendants from the 11th and 17th Municipal School of Agios Dimitrios. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Poppa, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u56	Minister, I was not satisfied with your general and theoretical response. I respect you, but I think you're talking as a professor, as a theoreticalist, and you don't speak practically as a politician. You spoke of reconciliation. What reconciliation? Let me report you some Greek police incidents. Yesterday we had a gathering and speech in our local North suburbs organization in Maroussi. I spoke. Police says: "We, guys, can't do anything. If something happens and they come you will be on your own." This is the Greek police, a police officer under our offices. Security Minister Amarusios, in the previous attack ten days ago, "Find it with New Democracy." Samarikos the Commander of the Security Department: "Find it with the New Democracy, guys. And as for them, meaning those who attack us, 'take one'. This is the rule of law you claim to command with the police, to urge the police to make civil arrests. "Arrest one and we'll take him after us and you'll see what happens." You're in charge of this police. Do you know that? Do you know about the police business? You said about mild management. Yes, mild management, but with mild management there is also a violent suppression of political ideas, due to the sound management of yours. Shall I list you incidents? Red parastates stabbed twenty-six years in Victoria Square because he wore a shirt with the Greek flag. Invasion orders, in collaboration with the police, attacked our anti-immemorial gathering at Volos. To continue, murderous attack on Maroussi, we said so. Invasion of parastates in the trial room, with huge police responsibilities. What else can I tell you? It's a mess. I don't give it to the Minutes, I give it to you personally. Give it to Mr. Panousis, if he doesn't know. Do you know them, Mr. Panussi? Does your subordinate, the chief of police, know them? And I wonder, are you incapable - with all due respect - or are you technicians able to use the parastate as a fear of the people, as did the previous ones, on the Mexican Right? Finally, it seems that the state is constantly in place. And the parastate keeps going. Minister, I want to believe or better believe that you are an honest man, even though you are a political opponent. Is that enough? Is that enough honesty, good conduct, to have someone strong enough to correct situations and offer what is fundamental in favoured status and in the rule of law, as you mentioned? Offering not the feeling, but offering real security to its citizens. And I wonder with you and convey your words to my question: 'There is a state?' Answer: 'Now you understand that there is no state?' So, to tell the Greek people truths. The parastate, Mr Minister, and I shall end, Madam President, has deep roots in Greece since the 1960s. It was and is the rotten part of the Police, and it was also the Squadrons of the Secret Service. Your responsibilities, Minister, for the provocative provocations against the nationalist movement are enormous. The responsibilities of those who want uncontrolled situations are enormous. I can't tell anyone who wants these things. I suppose they are embassies and dark decision-making centres, that is to say, all those who make scenarios about the dark future of our country. You have responsibilities, too, Mr. Panousis, not only your government, but you too. It is not fair for you to say that it will be an accident to develop into a Prokopi Pavlopoulou or a Nikos Dendia and I am referring, of course, to the term of these two former ministers of the bourgeois Right. They are responsible for your colleagues and your party, namely those who applaud and motivate these actions, those who do not condemn these actions against the third political force. Much more you are responsible...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Pappa,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u58	Madam President, one more minute, because I have a 'cava'. Eighteen months did not allow me the previous Bureau to come and ask questions. I have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u59	All right, but shorten up, 'cause the other questions are too.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u60	We wait much longer than you, Mr. Panussis, or colleagues who know what a parastate is, who have felt in their minds what political persecution means. So I wonder: Do all of you on the Left have so much memory? Did it affect you and does it affect your delightful life? Did it affect you and does it affect the urban lifestyle you now order? We, Minister, beyond threats, beyond illegal, unconstitutional orders for our persecutions, in addition to the orders for the lack of protection in our movement, in our MPs, will continue to fight unreasonablely, in order for there to be a state, a state, a state, a rule of law, a state belonging to the Greeks. We are against all, against para-states and anti-hostism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the educational program "Worker of Democracy", which is organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, thirteen students and students and two teachers from the 3rd Municipal School of Agios Dimitrios. Today the municipal schools of Agios Dimitrios have their honor in the House. The Greek Parliament welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u62	I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report. I was born in Cologne. I don't get a lot of power issues and power prerogatives, nor am I a political career. So I leave all this to discuss the parties with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u63	I have not talked about you personally, I have spoken about your colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u64	I condemn armed violence because I believe that democracy has no place at all. But I'll remind you that in the police section and I'll check what you said one by one and call me tomorrow or tomorrow, because I'm not letting anything fall down...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u65	There's nothing going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u66	Wait a minute. Justice is not going well or badly at the speeds we would all want and it is not only in these cases, but also in other cases. As you know, the police are now getting involved with justice and goes by saying. But don’t blame me for trying to cover up, because there is no such thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u67	Impossibility is...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u68	We'll see about that, too. I have no problem accepting that I don't know how to do my job well. But when you have fifty-five thousand police officers, you may obviously have various issues in there, which will also have fifty-five thousand lawyers or fifty-five thousand doctors or fifty-five thousand soldiers or fifty-five thousand different categories, say, municipal rulers, etc. It is too many people and has the power of legal violence, power and it can also have circuits. And all this - I'm not innocent - I know it and I'm trying to handle it. I won't handle them with screams. That's clear. I'll handle it on a schedule, with a plan, you just have to have some political time to do it. But what you have done today, speaking of a parastate in the four months of the country's governance, wants a document. And he wants a documentation, why? Because at the same time the police are hit on the other side, to the extent that they must disguise themselves to exist, at the same time you hit them on the other side, that they are all rotten.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u69	It starts with Lambrakis and ends up in Gregoropoulos...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u70	I know the Greek history very well. I can assure you that I know her very well. It is, however, another thing to do in order to restructure an area. All of us together to redeem him. The police, regardless of what every police officer thinks politically - and I'm not behind the party to see what she's voting for - must be neutral in relation to her function. It's her job to do what she has to do, social peace, the fight against crime, terrorism, organised crime. It's her job. I don't care what everyone votes for. I'm interested in having circuits in there and all kinds of pouch. That's what I'm interested in. Now, as regards what you have said, as a minister and myself, but also as a government - because I have orders, which tell me that there will be no Member of Parliament, not a Member of Parliament, of all the Members - we guarantee that nothing will be done. That's where we can protect ourselves. Because he told me the Headquarters and the 141, which you said, that there is a Committee on Risk Assessment - I knew that - that there are protection measures both of the objectives and of the offices and of the movement and of 24-hour guarding throughout the territory. And there is no, the Headquarters tells me - I will also check this, if you think it is wrong - and the relevant Headquarters have not received the specific information concerning threats or preparatory acts to the detriment of MPs has not been brought to the attention of the Heads of State or Government. This is where you tell me it exists. And that's an official document, they gave it to me to speak with you. This is where you tell me it exists. So please, in two, three days to call me at the Ministry, because that's what I'll check one by one. I'm not in favor of the police, which is this way and of the police that's over there. The police are an institution of democracy, they protect the whole world. It's over and out.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u71	That's the way it has to be.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Panussi. It will now be discussed in the tenth year under number 303/2-6-2015, a topical question for the second cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelles, to the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction, concerning measures to protect the country's anti-nuclear protection. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Ioannis Panousis. Mrs. Kanelle, you have the floor for two minutes to present your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, in 2003 Mr. 3144, in order to give the staff of the firefighting officer necessary. From then on, twelve years ago, the Presidential Decree has not been published. We are in the second month of danger for fires, what we say when anti-nuclear protection is escalating, because winds are coming, because tourists are coming, because this is coming, because that is what comes, because the other comes, and the funds started - what funds, the cuts for five years by 134 million euro - are being distributed. And where are these distributed now? The Ministry of Productive Reconstruction decided to assign the fire protection of Parnitha to a private person, compared with 410,000 euros! We are talking about huge deficiencies. There has not even been a straightforward opening-up of the roads engraved, the so-called fire protection, the fire roads. It doesn't exist, it didn't happen. It's not like we're late, there's no design. The frustrated fact that you received a burnt earth, believe me, here is a literal expression and we're talking about the real life right now. Nothing can disguise the problem, Minister. Nothing! Means are minimal. The human potential is exterminated. The funds they left went to the municipalities and regions did not go to the forests. In any case, the policy that has been pursued so far is incorrect. It has also removed from the Firefighting and Air Force and from the forests the substance, the formation, the scientific approach to forest protection. This forest has become Greece - you know, pericardial or otherwise - described by a saying: You see the tree and you lose the forest. You see the tree and you lose the forest. We repeat it from morning to night. I've seen the meeting that's going on, and I've attended the conference, and I hear about spots, about commercials, about them, about the rest. However, this is the only way to do this if there is no plan, if there is no reform, if the country is not able to make a central planning and, above all, if the forests and firefighting do not make the necessary funds available. I will not fall into the populism of the days, about where the funds went, and if they go to five, the time they're away from Canander, which we rent every three, and one, comes a big Toupolef, which can't, while there's the ones in the firefighting that really die. They're dying! There are firefighters who pay out of their pocket tires in the fire-fighting cars. We are in a situation where, at the moment we are talking, we are all inhaling dioxin. No one is going to deal with the funds of the paradoxical inhaled drugs that cardiovascularly need, which they cannot deal with. In any case, there is a policy of entrusting private individuals. Because the fire extinguisher has gone to volunteers too. The funds - he says - go to links. All this can't be controlled by anyone, and most importantly he can't coordinate them. And everyone makes their public relations, takes on a corner in their area and among them, a few times, a source of trouble and a real seal was discovered, i.e. real fire. I would therefore like to know what you are planning, what reform you want to do, and how you will speed up the lost time of the distribution of funds so that we do not stay on the voluntary offer, with firefighters being without any materials, without gloves, without the proper cars - unsuitable repaired and altar-like - and without the ability to deal with something that we are deposing of to God at the fate of a fateful moment. And as you know, his angels' battalions don't come down to extinguish fires, even for the most faithful in tail.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u74	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you the naked truth - I have no reason to round things - which I said to a delegation from the Communist Party of Greece who visited me last week for information after my invitation. It's a little worse than you said. The question is, are you lifting your hands up? Are you saying "let God solve them" or are you trying with the materials you have, with your shortcomings, to create a new conception, a new grid of relationships between the firehouse, the Forestry, the Region, the municipalities? We've turned all over Greece. The other day, only I told you that with the firefighting helicopter all the lead went to Samos, Chios, Mytilini, Rhodes, Kos and to see the migration, but also to see the situation. I have visited about all parts of the country's fire department, to see both men and to speak to them and see me and be encouraged and tell them the truth - after all, they know it now. So what are we trying to do like things in the anti-nuclear period that he found us in the three months? Preventive vegetation cleansing, removal of cleaning residues, preventive cleaning from forestry services, the road network. We had a very difficult winter, so we had great problems because of rainfall on the forest roads. The road's down, and you need to fix it to get through the critical moment. We have problems with fire extinguishers, but we're not naked. We have issues with the Canander - and legal issues from the past - and we are trying to have them right now - and we have - a Canander more and two helicopters from the Fire Corps more than last year. There has been a rational distribution in the country. Because that's important too. It's not just how much you've got in there, but where you'll have them so that the critical moment is not going to happen. So we have done all we can to do in the conditions with which we are currently dealing with the problems. We have also notified the European mechanism, Italy, France, if, if the non-genus, we have a problem, to run. Dear colleague, we have to spend this difficult moment in the country so you can say after that you'll find the moment you do the five years for the firefighting. I've taught many years at the Fire Academy, and I have a special relationship. Firefighters are dear to the people, they do not have the problems of the policemen for whom there are any suspicions at all. They want encouragement right now. We should help them right now and show them at the next minute that we've forgotten them. We put a thousand five hundred seasonal, two and thirty-two-five years of obligation. We're doing everything with the evidence we have. In other words, I would like to subscribe to what you have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u76	Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u77	And where I went to smile, you threw away the fatal talk and sent me all the way! Literally. Because you told me to have the hard time after five years. And you're telling me that you've been teaching in the fire department for years. Check out the five-year plan, see where you want to go. I did not tell you to apply it to the difficult moment, and I did not ask you or anyone from the JRC who came to visit you, and the invoicing of this five-year-old. Let's see where you're headed. Where are you going? Are things gonna get back to them with the fire brigade? Is there going to be a scientific formation? Will any private person, like the one who is in Aspropyrgos, be licensed from that Service, who cannot fix it, when he cannot erase the fire that will erupt? Because I can't imagine you going to Karpathos, where they're going to build the new base, and they're giving us something of my birds there. Burning the areas around here, I can't imagine you said we'd put something in Carpathos. Well, because we will give it to them - because as the Minister has said, it will be - it will be nothing important for the islands not to burn down. That's not true now. There could be a direction, a plan, a piece of repair to existing policy, since you know it in depth. Yeah, they're like firefighters. They're like firefighters, because they often die. And they die of their friendship, from the bad circumstance that can arise in a fire and, at the same time, at the same time, at the wrong time, because of lack of capabilities, planning. But you know what? This is not the source of wealth. Because I heard the previous Minister say we're going to catch the wealth in his source. You have to accept that the producer of the source of wealth is the worker and therefore the fireman. If you accept that this is the big chapter, and you're going to take it taxly, so to speak, or at the level of corruption, I don't want to stay on such matters. She cannot currently have a private person against 410,000 euros at a time of difficult fires at Parnitha, as others had her plantation by decision of the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction, and I do not know tomorrow morning which Forestry will control this individual, if she erases the fires, if she does what it should or actually puts on fires. Because you can put on fire without throwing a molotov or a glass. You can set fire and become responsible, especially if it is going to make you profit, - so that we both agree absolutely, although I do not doubt that we agree on this - by not doing what you have to do, by not making the road open, cannot pass, by not being able to work, by the cranes, by not operating the water supply system - because that is the very big problem - because there is no possibility for pumps to function, because if a fire is cut and electricity is cut. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Ioannis BALAFAAS, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So in that sense, I don't want any contributors. I just want to admit that we have come with a plan, a proposal, a position that we can judge in its direction - right? - a result of how quickly the funds can be distributed and staff needs - gloves, those, these, the other materials, shift distribution. And above all, I want to know the sharing of responsibility in what is now called the state and state, which so much 'dachardistish' is acting against the Golden Dawn. That is how the atmosphere is, that it is poor children, who have spent so much time in prison, to bring them in here now, to let them do so and a little so, to feel that they have approached democracy a little bit. Well, if we talk about the state, talk about the state. We are asking the state for responsibilities. No communist came to tell you, "Come together and go on pilgrimage, make our cross to find a solution".
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Canelley. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u79	On the question of whether or not an operational plan exists, there is. In other words, the Secretary-General for Civil Protection, Mr Mavropoulos, the Chief of Firefighting and all the co-presidents have an operational plan. The issue is another, how synergy and responsibility will work at the critical moment. This is also critical of the outcome, Mrs Canelley. One of the prisoners. And when I said 'five years', I said five years of general restructuring. In other words, Mr.4249 was voted on the Fire Academy and we are now obliged to postpone its start-up, because he said that a legal person governed by public law has done nothing for a year and a half now in order to implement this upgrading through education, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u80	But I told you that 12 years have not been passed by presidential decrees.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u81	I wrote it down. I didn't know. So we have a problem with regard to forest fires and the Department of Forest Protection of the Ministry of Productive Reconstruction. We need to see that we don't all run together or nobody runs. Because what is particularly interesting is what you said. Usually, in Greece, we have crimes of omission. This matter also had my doctorate, know, crimes of omission or omission. So you leave it and it's done. You don't. And so you don't feel responsible. At the moment, however, prevention - synergy - co-responsibility - is the tripartite that we can operate with rationalisation of distribution and an operational bad moment plan. But we have evidence of the great negligence. We had a small-scale fire fortunately and responsible was a ninety-year-old man who put it. He didn't set the fire, burn the grass. We're trying to go to the village's last cafe, say we don't burn our fields at that time. We're going to school. Even in the congregation, the responsible ones went to make it seem strange to you - through the preaching to be informed all over the world. We are trying on ships to enter various circulars saying 'watch out for the fires'. So in closing I shall refer to the 'human' factor. What do I say in all my talks to all the firefighters? " Houses are made. Forests are made. The man's not made. I don't want anyone missing. The risk weighting you're going to make is within your mission. Your life. One is waiting for you at home, your children and your family." I want October to have finished the anti-nuclear period in the best possible way, start planning and not miss anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u82	We agree on 'no one dead'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on this topical and urgent question has been closed. The third question will then be discussed under No 279/27-5-2015 topical question from the F Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Mr Spyridon Lykoudis, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on measures to be taken for the new homeless. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotou. Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, the image of a homeless in Greek cities today is the image of absolute impoverishment. The "Atholioi" in Greece today, the homeless, are the "Miserables" of our time. In the years of my own youth a homeless man was a rare picture. We rarely saw a bench under a tree a homeless man, despite the fact that our country was fat at that time. Today, the homeless and the newly homeless are more than twenty thousand citizens. It has obviously affected the whole picture, the deep crisis that we are going through, which works aggressively in this area and which is growing. The problem is what we do. The European Union states - and I do not question it - that it ensures the social cohesion of its members. What we are talking about at all times and on all matters is not if it takes care of it, but how it takes care of it. I also believe that the Greek Government has every reason to try with its own sensitivity to ensure that these people are charged. The problem is what we are doing about these issues and not whether we have the sensitivity that no one disputes it. At least I don't question her. On your Ministry's website - because the National Centre for Social Solidarity - I think there is no - correct me if I am wrong - a specific package of measures for this effort. With the well-known "CALL" part of this effort has gone to self-government. You know, however, very well - and I and all of us - by what means modern self-government is trying to deal with the problem, the 'new homeless' throughout Greece. It also helps many times the church or non-governmental organizations or even volunteers, who are very useful and touching for their efforts. It is important, however, not to try or provide any voluntary aid, but to produce results which I think are poor. That is why, Minister, I ask you. Do you intend to immediately have a new integrated strategy plan with totalitarian, if possible, absorption of all the Community funds available on this issue? If so, what will that be and when about will we get into its implementation? Secondly, the social dividend will be established immediately and there will be clear care in this for the hospitalized neo-liberals and possibly correction of previous mistakes by the previous governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u86	Mr Lykoudi, your question today, I think, is extremely critical and lifts the arrow from the face of the humanitarian crisis in one of the areas called 'home shortage'. And indeed, as you have already said, Greece has been in this situation for the last four years under the memorial policies and policies of austerity, when - and you rightly remember from your childhood - it is the country with the highest percentage of self-interest, 82%. So what happened, and what should we do today? These days, we have been planning this policy, that is, a national strategy on social inclusion in housing. It's got two legs, like right, I think, you're asking to know. One is immediate measures and the other is long-term measures. In the long term, all the political and all the analysis we do is with the help of two universities, TEI Piraeus, the National Centre for Social Research and the University of Crete. In other words, we are drawing up the data from these surveys. It is the situation, which I would like to see, to tell you exactly the immediate and the longest measures, strategies and financial instruments you have asked me to do. Four categories are, Mr Lykoudis, those called homeless or newly homeless: The first is the ones who have no roof and are on the street, the ones we call homeles, the ones you see sleeping on the benches. The second category is the deprivation of residence and which are currently in various institutions. The third category is precisely the result of the crisis, it is those who cannot afford to pay their rent and are under eviction or are in danger of losing their home, because their loan is not repaid again because of an economic need. So they risk losing their first home extremely poor layers. I'm not talking about those who got a loan to get a lot of homes. And the fourth category is those who live in camps, in poor institutions, even in their cars. They're sleeping in their car! Well, how many are there? You said a number. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Do I have the chance or should I go to the second part?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u87	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u88	As you wish. So the numbers. Unfortunately, Mr Lykoudi, the figures from the University of Crete are seventeen thousand for all these categories only for the Lefkanopod, whereas the last two categories I have told you, namely the red loans and the ones that live, according to methodological calculations - because they cannot really be calculated - start from ninety-three thousand and may be half a million. I'm saying this to have a little conscious of the scale of the problem. Now, what do we do? What's there? Firstly, there is the 'House and Reintegration' programme. What was that program? That was 20,000. Last April through the social dividend, i.e. from the part of the primary surplus, the government said to give 20,000 000 for this programme. It didn't start. We started this these days. In other words, tomorrow, the first allowance is, unfortunately, only to - because so many people - a thousand seventy-three people. This allowance is starting to give it as early as tomorrow, because we, unfortunately, started the programme, which had not been in progress since April last year. This means five hundred people for Attica, a hundred fifty three for Thessaloniki and four hundred twenty for the whole country. Unfortunately, it is only 9 million, which will be made available from these 20 million. That was how the programme was designed, which we are implementing. The remaining 10 million were given to churches for feeding. What do we do now? As far as the humanitarian crisis is concerned, Mr Lykoudis, you are well aware of the bill, which you, too, voted in honor and whose applications expired on 30 May, namely 11 days ago. At the end of this week, we will have the number of beneficiaries. How many applied? Three hundred thousand. How many people is this about? Six hundred thirty thousand people. How many of them asked for a roof? They asked for a home subsidy of ninety thousand people to sixty - thirty - three thousand. How much money will we give and how many families will we give a rental allowance? Thirty thousand families. In other words, if you want, one third of applications will be able in the first phase to cover with an allowance of EUR 70 to EUR 220 a month to avoid...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u89	Madam Minister, you will also speak in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u90	Yeah, yeah. The second programme that we are accelerating at the moment is the ETVA, a European programme. And that's in hypnosis. Forty-five million of this was not absorbed last year. We put another forty-five this year and we take forty-five more than a year. TAVA is for feeding. So we have an extra 135 million to feed. The last thing I want to say to you is that we have given the uninsured card to all these uninsured people so that they can have access directly to the health system and, of course, these days we are discussing the travel card for the unemployed and therefore also for these vulnerable groups. I will continue with the long term and other measures, which we will take immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u91	Thank you. Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I will not exhaust at all the three-minute period of my dentistry, firstly so as not to repeat the things I have said to you and secondly, because I think that with wonderful accuracy you have described the problem much better than the honourable Member, because you have told me some of the elements which I did not know, such as the fact that the twenty thousand, which I mentioned, homeless and newly homeless, are the homeless in Attica and not all of Greece. I thought - badly I hadn't noticed - that it was all about the homeless. I think the problem is too big and too serious. I understand from what you said that it is extremely difficult to resolve, seeing at the beginning the few you have managed to do. Watch out. I'm doing a parentheses. I exercise parliamentary control. I do not denounce or blame anyone and, on the contrary, I would say that if you try to solve the problem, I agree with you. So I am not opposed at this time. The problem is very serious. If, however, what we have approached so far is to grant - if I remember correctly, if I listened well - four hundred twenty-two citizens across Greece, you can see that the distance to approach the issue and not to resolve it is too great. You know that in the structures of the social services of the municipalities - I refer to the Municipality of Athens in which I am a member of the capital and have looked a little bit at this - despite the enormously heroic effort made by the services, things have not gone wrong. It is unbelievable that there are also economic and health care structures, possibly reintegration into work, etc. So I say - and I close because it does not matter to repeat what I said to you in my prototype - that a very great effort is needed. You know that because it is considered this part of the citizens of this country to be marginal on purpose - they are the people who are on the bench, who are in the park - often outside the sphere of our own social insight. We believe that we need to see what we are going to do with the employees, who will be fired, who will not be fired, what will happen with the worker, with wages and pensions, and we forget thousands of fellow citizens, people who, with a blanket, are lying on a sidewalk. I do not question the sensitivity and care you have shown and what you have tried to do. We just need to make them faster and more decisive. That's why I asked the question, so we could open it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Lykoudi. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u94	I understand your answer, Mr Lykoudi, and I understand that you have the same anxiety as us. These are not matters for any kind of confrontation between us. I will now tell you how we are going to proceed with the next steps, taking into account the size of this problem. I already told you that a thousand people are covered by the Housing and Reintegration programme, which had been launched and planned by the previous government. He just hadn't activated it last year in April and we did it and we activated it now - I told you - from tomorrow. Two are the elements of a long-term policy. When you have it in your head, you look at what direct moves you have to make. These two elements exist in a country with large house surpluses, housing, because here we have no housing shortages, here we have population groups that either lose their home or are unable to rent because of a crisis. Understand? We have a particular case and we need to take special measures. The people on the road must deal with them at the moment in a double direction. The first is with groups of people and equipment, i.e. van, which have laundry facilities, for example, or have showers, which spend all day through specific places where these people are located and serve them, as well as certain places in the city. This will be a permanent situation. In other words, they must be able to access such an access. At the same time, there must be experts there, psychologists, sociologists, who will take care of them, because it is not that simple for these people. You're in another psychological state now when you start living on the road. That's the one. The second great thing is to increase hostel structures for all those who, for some reason - whether seasonally or not - are in this exceptional need or for those on the street who want to go to these hostels. What do we do right now? Two hundred forty buildings of welfare, Mr. Lykoudi, are untapped. If you'll excuse me, because you know now that I'm an architect and I'm sensitive to this matter, I want to tell you that the proposal that I told you before the van "Diplomatics" of the Architects School has been designed. They've designed these polytechnics. And she's ready to provide us with her help to quickly convert buildings. I also inform you that citizens are coming and giving their buildings - I have to find the legal framework, to see what I will do - to the Ministry and they say 'Take up my building if it is to put people in the homeless right now'. There are possibilities. It requires a large network and legislative initiative. The main thing, of course, is red loans, Mr Lykoudi. We have all this anxiety, and we are making all this effort to be able to gather the people on the road, stop the flow of people who lose their home or who, because of economic data, are inexhaustible. That's why we made the first gesture, the 30,000 rent subsidy for people, to avoid eviction, so that we don't start, that is, to tighten up the armies of those you see on the street. We really need to find further European funds for this part of housing and reintegration, because the other two things you say are important. One is, of course, integration into society and the second job, because if we do not have a job, the history of the allowance, as you well know, has no end. Besides, it can keep you in a poverty trap. We therefore need active policies - that is what we are trying to do - European funds to which we are coming forward. We have been given an initial approval of forward actions, but, as you know, if they are not registered for this purpose, we will ask for a redesign and redesign of some funds in the coming years. Finally, let me say - and I conclude - that for the social dividend, as you know, it was 453 million the difference from the primary surplus that had to be repaid and what was to be left here. You know how the social dividend was created. So I'm telling you that last year it was given with an April 2014 CSR to six hundred and eighty thousand people a reinforcement once. Mr. Lykoudi, once-in-a-life support is not politics. The problem today in the humanitarian crisis is the response to the problem of essential missing goods. I would like to tell you a tragic number: of the three hundred thousand applications, the hundred forty thousand applications are asking for power. Social good is electricity. If you don't have power, there's nothing going on. And the most tragic: of the three hundred thousand applications, the two hundred ninety-seven thousand applications are asking for food. The Greek people are hungry. I do not want to make it dramatic - I could - but I tell you how complex the problem of the humanitarian crisis, which we hid under the carpet, is. We didn't say it at all, nothing. Mr President, I say to you - and I conclude - that I am very pleased to have this debate - I am not happy about the debate, but about the day - with Mr Lykoudi who knows exactly what happened on 11 June 2013 with the 'black' to the ERT. I'm happy today that you're here toward me and ERT is open again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Minister. This question was raised. We continue the fifth under number 286/29-5-2015 topical question by MP II Athens of Independent Greeks Athanasios Papachristopoulos to the Minister of Finance on the correction of the wage inequalities of the tax sector, appointed by notice 1K/2013/ASEP. Mr. Mardas is present and will answer. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u96	Minister, I would like to believe that we have the same assessment of tax evasion. I want to refer to two - three events which are not called into question. The Yannissi report was very clear. The rich paid 8% and the waffles 340%. I must also remind you that fifty-two thousand transfers left the nose of Provopoulou and the then government. How many of these have indeed been taxed and how much no one has ever learned. I still remember that few offshore were checked. These few that were checked gave us the terrible scandal of Aki Chohazopoulou, which I believe is the tip of the iceberg. The offshores of Karouso, for example, haven't been searched or the offshores of Batopedia and they go by saying. There is an undeniable need here. Everyone whispers and say that 'we don't have any staff to do tax controls'. I would also like, Minister, to remind you - and I believe that we speak the same language - that tax evasion may be the greatest open wound in Greek society at the moment. Many people say that if tax evasion were actually taken over, the country would have taken off in three or four years. I do not know if you share these views - there may also be a small exaggeration - but I believe that they are a great deal of real. I would also like to remind you before I came to my point that five judicial associations indicted the previous government for illegality in tax matters. All five judicial associations, which I imagine were neither your friends nor the Independent Greeks, did so. I would also remind you that George Sourlas, Secretary of Transparency at the Ministry of Justice, is still looking to find the names of the highest bank officials who gave without guarantees of incredible loans made for investments and who were leaving directly for abroad. It's indicative of the case at the Post Bank, which you know to be indicted at the moment. Indicative is also the case of Proton Bank. I don't want to refer to names, they're not here. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is where a big deal comes in. The then government did not - I don't know why, we all suspect - the intention of strengthening tax mechanisms to do the work they really had to do for decades. That's it. It's been four months. I would like to remind you here - and I would like to turn to my point - that, in August 2013, about three hundred and forty people were recruited, the auditors, and even deepened into the Lagard list, the Liechtenstein list, the transfers that went abroad, the ILO, the differences, the great wealth of businesses and natural persons. I'm doing a little parentheses. I don't have the requirement that Greek tax collectors become IRS. I would like to remind you, however, that there was once thought, Minister, to hire individuals to strike this gangrene called 'tax evasion'. Bad thinking, because I trust tax collectors, and I believe that if they did work with motives and proper conditions, we would have solved the matter. What now about these four hundred ninety tax people who have an average age of thirty to forty years? This is of great importance, because it is the corresponding average tax age in America, the famous IRS, which I dare not say is that we can reach it, but at least something to do. These people went right into the deep. They did a job while older people, who know the street, don't take tough cases. Especially cases in the great wealth of natural persons and businesses make 'jiz'. Many of them know what's waiting for them. They don't have any legal cover. They work under adverse conditions many hours. To get to the point of the matter, they should have motives. It is a promoted thought to talk about such postgraduate employees, who are economists - because that was the requirement of the contract, they did not enter by means, but through ASP - or lawyers and many of them, at least half, have a doctoral thesis. These people have indeed moved cases. We saw some results on both offshore and on the Lagard list and on the other lists and on the high wealth. They are therefore rewarded with the net astronomical sum of EUR 719. This is the astronomical amount they get, who are waiting to bring us billions from tax evasion. If we all, in this Chamber, believe that this can continue, I'm sorry, but we speak another language. Because I say again that tax evasion is at the edge of the spear. He needs to be hit and if he gets hit, the map of the country will be changed. Something needs to be done for these employees, who are paid less than half the money a guard or a trade union worker of the Treasury receives.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Papachristopoulos, you're telling your dentistry the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u98	To conclude, I would really like to ask the Minister if he has in his mind the creation of a new wage, which will solve the current disparities and injustices in the Ministry of Finance and whether he intends to include them in these provisions of Article 188 and so on, until the new wage is passed and applied to the Ministry of Finance. I don't want to say any more now. I'll tell you some more in my denture. In fact, I feel that tax evasion is 'gangrain' and should be hit. So such an employee cannot be treated with the criteria of a staff member who does a standard job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, Mr Papachristopoulos, ladies and gentlemen, I will not go into the issues of tax evasion you have raised, because it is the responsibility of Mrs Valavani. I shall refer directly to your question. As far as this payroll is concerned, like the single payroll is concerned, we are in a process of processing this wage so that it becomes more rational and many other cases than this can be dealt with. But you understand that we need to have an agreement with the partners to complete this whole effort. This agreement will put the framework in place and on it, we will build the specific payroll, which, according to our original proposals, does not provide for reductions. With regard to the second part to which you referred, for the application of this Article, this provision was provided for three specific categories of officials, auditors, in the context of equal treatment with their colleagues. Therefore, we cannot incorporate other officials, auditors from the Ministry of Finance into this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u102	Minister, that sounds a little like throwing the ball away. I am never going to ask a question in this House that has personal motives or motives of other kinds, such as locals, etc. I say again that tax evasion is being taken by these officials, and it doesn't matter to me if it's the Minister responsible. First of all, I would like to remind you of one fact: a hundred of them did not even go to work because they left jobs in the private sector very good. Of course, unemployment is affecting them too. Fifty and fifty have resigned and a few others are on permanent leave, that is to say, it goes on to dismantle this story, which we very much need. If you are treated dryly - look out! - bureaucraticly 'this, this and this', I will agree with you. I believe that for this category of officials, Minister, there must be a special provision, as has rightly been a special provision for cleaners. That's right! It's a special category and I want you to see it warmly, not dry and cold, "these people don't come under" and go by saying. I already know that. It is a special category of young people who are in the mood for work and who can bring us billions, not just millions. I request - I call it the 'crisis of agony' - that you see from another perspective this case of officials. And I am telling you just one example: one of these employees can in one year check ten cases of high wealth taxation. Seventy such employees would control seven hundred, meaning that we had to take not millions, but billions. And let me tell you the last one. Do you know how much the four-cosar - 400 euros cost is for me to be clear - which they are asking for? Around 2.5 million a year - that's the whole story - what we'll get from an offshore and, indeed, furious offshore, not even strong. Take these into account, Minister, and look with special attention at these specific officials, who are currently working to relieve us of a terrible wound. They cover 30% - the old people don't go because they know the bad news - of the services I told you, namely Liechtenstein, the Lagard list, the transfers and they go by saying. It's a long story, and I want you to watch it carefully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u104	I will not disagree with what you say, but you understand that there is a set of restrictions. On the other hand, of course, if you have a specific proposal that you can make us on this point, it is welcome to include it in the whole debate that has been opened on the single wage, which will be completed in a short time, in the context - I repeat - of the restrictions to be made in the light of the agreement to be reached.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u105	Minister, if you'll excuse me, there's such a proposal and we'll bring it to you. We think you'll see her with understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u106	Sure. Give it to me. Thank you very much for your contribution.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u107	Thank you. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, both of us. The seventh question will be discussed under number 271/26-5-2015 of the second question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Christos Staikos, to the Minister of Finance, on the internal posture of payments and the planning of the liquidation of public debts to the private sector. And this question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Dimitrios Mardas. Mr. Stavura, here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u109	Minister, according to official figures from the Ministry of Finance, the government's overdue debts to the private sector exceeded EUR 4.1 billion in April 2015, increased by EUR 1.1 billion or by 37% - I repeat, by 37%! - since December 2014. If, in fact, we add the outstanding tax repayments, the dues are close to EUR 5 billion at the end of April. It is recalled that the dues were about EUR 9 billion at the end of 2012 and decreased by 70% in the period 2013-2014. These formed around EUR 3 billion at the end of 2014. The significant increase in outstanding debts, which is extended and increased every month, is due mainly to the outstanding debts and unpaid obligations of the social security institutions - we are talking about a 23% increase - of hospitals by 56%, as said by the previous Minister and by the central government itself, where there is a full posture of payments, by 487%. This also contributes to the under-utilisation of the state budget in the expenditure side, which exceeds EUR 2 billion in the first four months of 2015 - I think this will have been extended in May - both from the regular budget and from the Public Investment Programme. In the first quarter of 2015, the costs of covering hospital deficits and the repayment of outstanding debts amounted to EUR 63 million in the first quarter of 2015 from EUR 631 million in the corresponding quarter of 2014. These are the official information you have published. The expenditure of the Public Investment Programme amounted to EUR 820 million from EUR 1.4 billion in the corresponding period of 2014. In other words, they have been reduced by 41% since last year - I repeat, of course, that I appreciate that this will be extended in May - and the special grant of the Local Government agencies is reduced by 30% compared with last year. In conclusion, the government has proceeded to a substantial, expanding posture of payments, which has led to a suffocation of the Greek economy. However, since the Government has, among other things, committed itself, as is apparent from the Greek Government's proposals to the partners, since February, 'to design and implement a strategy for the settlement of outstanding debts' by the end of April 2015 and not only because this date has expired, but as we see these obligations rather than being reduced, you are asking, Mr Minister, what is the government's strategy and what is the exact schedule for repayment of public debts to the private sector, as I have already seen - as I appreciated - to the partners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Stakoura. Minister, here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u111	As you know, for some time now Greece has been fulfilling its obligations towards the partners according to its own resources. We've given around 8 billion. So you understand the restrictions that are being met in the country's budget, which you also know because of past experience. What I have to say to you is that all this time - the question you have asked, we have answered it in writing in the House, so I repeat the written information we have given - by April in total expenditure of EUR 12.5 billion, about EUR 1.5 billion, we have transferred expenditure to the tune of EUR 1.5 billion, which you see in the monthly notes, which we are doing. This is a necessity, it is a practice that has also been followed in the past, when the pressures we face on the budget, as far as resources are concerned, are particularly high. What we are doing is transferring and at the same time investigating whether or not these expenditures, which have been planned, are considered necessary. This investigation refers to the codes of the four thousand seventy-seven in number and we investigate them by Ministry. Our first conclusion is that when it comes to their payment time, some of them will not be paid because they are deemed not necessary. And this work, which is being done this year and will be completed, will also have to do with shaping next year's budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Stavura, you have the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u113	Minister, I have listened very carefully and with interest to your position. I am particularly aware of the extremely difficult task you have. Repeat, as you have said, your written answer to my current question. I am telling you what you have written: 'The modulation of expenditure at lower levels is mainly due to the restructuring of cash planning in the light of the prevailing cash situation. It is estimated that following the normalisation of cash, expenditure will return to budgetary targets’. So basically, with your current position and the written answer you confess four things: Firstly, you admit that there is no real primary surplus, because if expenditure, and when expenditure, comes back to the level of budget objectives, as you say to me, that is, an increase of EUR 2 billion, the primary surplus becomes a primary deficit. And I think this will be clearer in May. Secondly, there is no proposal to limit the total government budget expenditure, since the government accepts, and in writing, the objectives of the previous government budget. So any financial adjustment will be made with new, additional, direct and indirect taxes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Thirdly, there is a substantial internal attitude to payments, since the reduction in expenditure by EUR 2 billion is accompanied by a corresponding increase in public debts to the private sector, contrary to what was done in the previous two years, which reduced expenditure, and the delayed commitments were reduced. That is the definition of the internal attitude of payments. Fourthly, the internal posting of payments is largely - correctly - due to the pressing cash requirements, but also to the needs of the government in recent months. And since some of my fellow Members - not you, we have been in this House, and you and I - and forms and electronics - come to an arbitrary conclusion on the country's cash situation at the beginning of the year, I repeat - and I shall submit back to the Minutes what I have supported in this House and on 24 April and 14 May. Firstly, after the elections on 25 January and despite the delay in revenues in December and January due to the political uncertainty, the country had EUR 1.9 billion of cash. These cash assets of EUR 1,9 billion were collected by the current government. And this despite the fact that since the summer of 2014, as you quite rightly said, no instalment has been paid by the partners and without the previous government making an internal payment stop. Secondly, then, the assessments were - and you have agreed on this too - that if the current government did not take any initiative, it would begin to deal with cash problems after 24 February - small in February and larger in March - problems which the previous government had had to deal with so far. Thirdly, this pressing cash situation was also the reason why the previous government sought to close within a two-month period, with the benefit of the country, the agreement to get the last instalment of the current programme. On the other hand, the current government initially assured the Greek society, despite the fact that it knew the truth about the country's cash situation, that it does not need the instalments. And then, on 20 February, he signed that it would be disbursed as a whole at the end of the assessment, namely at the end of June, which the government officials themselves today, the new head of the negotiating group, admit it was a mistake. And in the meantime, these months we have lost time, credibility and allies because we have invested in inertia and creativity. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I hope that there will be a good deal of agreement for the country. But, if there is one, it will, as it seems, contain conditions that are more unfavourable in relation to the recent past than in terms of achieving far lower primary surpluses. In this case, responsibility will be burdened with both the government for its negotiating strategy, the absence of a realistic plan and the incompatibility of its announcements with the European framework, and the lenders for their timely uncompromising attitude to policy aspects. In any case, I believe that in our homeland - after the testing of the Radical Left in governance - it is time to stop the ideological riots, dogmas and high tones and all the social and political forces, regardless of any differences and our peri-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-per-view role in the political scene, constantly put back on a spirit of understanding, with a sense of responsibility so that the country can come out quickly and definitively from the dawn, develop justice and cohesion, and engage in dignity and dynamism in the international environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Stakoura. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u115	I answer some of the questions and the issues you raised concerning my responsibilities. I would remind you that the primary surplus of 2014 is about half of what you had assessed according to the "programme". This showed that the 2014 budget did not evolve in the way it had to evolve. This reasonably affects 2015 as well. Clearly some objectives have been set, but in fact, taking into account the 2014 data, we are absolutely convinced that these objectives could not even be reached by the New Democracy. I come to other, sub-texts you raised: We are adapting expenditure to the resources we have and our expenditure will be adjusted in the framework of the agreement which is being prepared. We will see what the primary surplus will be, which will be agreed and according to it, we will move and pursue the primary surplus we will agree on, that is what we will lead to at the end of the year. As far as the transfer of payments is concerned, I will repeat what I said earlier: in the context of the effort to distinguish between non-necessary expenditure or waste and expenditure, where, as I said, we are monitoring four thousand seven hundred codes relating to non-wage expenditure, we believe that we will save resources, save expenditure, and the budget will now refer to more basic expenditure than previously.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Minister. This timely question has been concluded. We move to the fourth with no. 275/26-5-2015 top-level question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary, Mr. Theocharis Theocharis, to the Minister of Finance, on the information on the progress of the Greek Government negotiations with European partners on the financing of the Greek State by EFSF and the achievement of a new agreement. He is present and will be answered by the Minister of Finance, Mr Yiannis Varoufakis. Here, Mr. Theochari, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Minister for answering my question. Minister, the situation with the negotiations has actually reached the end of the day. We are watching no more bilingualism or trilingualism, but a real maliciousness on the part of the government. Others ask for a break, others ask for a drachma. We're hearing about unilateral actions. At the same time, we are listening, 'there is an agreement' or 'we will make it Kugi'. The morning is like this, the night is different. And always in a good climate! We have no results, but we have at least a good climate! We're watching the government hope for Uncle's money from America. One day it is the 5 billion from the Russian pipeline, mocking people that Europeans can pay alone for this pipeline, from which we will use the money to bring it to them. We have the Chinese incubators, who will put billions into them and finally put 200 million in them. Finally, we had yesterday, the day before yesterday, to discover and to get us out of all this difficulty. I think after that there's no need to negotiate, we're fine! The government is hoping for political negotiation and pressure. Merkel's got a little pressure on Lagard. Yunker's trying to force Merkel. Lagard to pressure Tomsen. Lew should press Shoeble. Obama should force Merkel. We've lost the booze now. This is not a negotiation strategy, it's not a recipe for food, it's a sugar pie. Put pie up, pie down, everything we find in the fridge, add it in. So the Greek people will not eat, they will be hungry. We can't go on like this. And the world shows it now, which sees the government’s negotiating tactics as a minority in the world. 54% disagrees with the way in which the negotiation takes place and only a 45% agrees. Describing examples: we are monitoring the negotiation of the primary surplus. For one week our partners have been saying 1%, we say 0.6%. He called us one percent again, we say 0.75%. He called us one percent again. We finally agree on 1%. If we had in March this kind of agreement, we could achieve 1% with 1.2%, but we would also have a balanced economy close to 0%. Now we may also have 1% of the primary deficit and need to take much worse measures. What is the logic of surrounding the red lines from interviewing, canceling the negotiating position? I ask you: does anyone know the red lines of the IMF or of Shoeble? Only our own red lines, and that is why it is actually canceling them. The economy in the meantime has frozen: Mine 0.2% of GDP reduction, tourism in threat and offshore - while it had started well, all the numbers have turned to the negative - sixty businesses every day, unemployment began to rise. ELSTAT announced in May unemployment now titled SYRIZA. He needs a lot of attention. People want the deal, as the latest polls say, at 58%. And, of course, he wants the euro at 80%. He is now worried about 60% of the world, while hope from 80% has fallen to 30%. Why? Because the world intuitively feels the destruction of other scenarios: the drachma, which can reduce its purchasing power to one fifth. They may be forced to get bored. What about the worst? We may be in the drachma and we need support from our partners for the parity and so we should be in the memorandum. The world may end up having a drachma and a memorial. And that will be the worst result. So even the capital controls are something people want to see. She's scared of them. Why? Because he won't have access to his money. He will only trade internally in banks and will not get money to make cash transactions. And, of course, even the payment of wages and pensions, which is now too difficult - and this month is difficult to achieve - will become virtually impossible in such a scenario. I would therefore like to ask you as the competent Minister: What is the framework that we have already shaped for individual issues under discussion? I hope then, after the Prime Minister's meetings yesterday with Mrs Merkel and Mr Holland, that we have now reached a framework, particularly VAT, red loans, insurance, labour, primary surplus and budgets. In particular, what are our proposals in relation to those of the partners? Secondly, if the instalments were to be paid in June 2015, as you took them all at the end of the month. Have EUR 1.6 billion been guaranteed, or are these payments to be postponed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr. Theochari. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Theochari. The Greek people, Mr Theocharis, as you quite rightly said, want the agreement, as the government wants it. But he doesn't want the subjection. And he doesn't want subjection to a misanthropological irrationality like that of the last five years. The mandate we have received was the agreement, through a negotiation, so that there is a financial framework, a reform package, a debt restructuring, an investment programme that all together gives hope for a way out of the crisis over the last five years. That means negotiation, of those we have not had in the last five years. Why didn't we have a negotiation for the last five years? Quite simply, because no government in the past, since May 2010, has come up with what we are doing, namely to discuss with an open mind everything, to accept the proposals of the institutions, to oppose these positions and to be prepared to say no. Because, as you know, Mr Theochra, either in the private sector, either in the public sector or in the international precinct or in the Eurozone, if you are not prepared to think that you will say no to what your lender or partner will tell you at the last minute, you are simply not negotiating. You're demanding and dragging into a darkness like the one we've had in the last five years. Allow me to use the rest of the time to respond to your own, if you like, pluralism and noise, which I did not expect from you, Mr Theochari, because you know that I appreciate you at a personal level. It was never the position of the Greek Government that an agreement on a pipeline with Russia or an agreement with the Chinese about some privatisations would be a lever to put pressure on the partners and would be an alternative to the agreement in the context of the European family. I have said at least twenty times since 25 January that the bilateral relationship between Greece and friends of non-Eurozone countries is not a substitute for an honest and sustainable agreement with the Eurozone. So I don't understand why you're talking about this. You said that we hope for political negotiation. What do you think happened last night? Last night the Prime Minister negotiated with the French President and German Chancellor. As is the case today, such a debate is still taking place at many different levels. This negotiation would not have happened if we were not prepared to do what some - I do not know if you were included in them - were to be indicted. And what's that? To aim at the root of the problem of monumental policies, which was the logical inconsistencies of the objectives. On the one hand, they asked for primary surpluses, which were based on certain assumptions of growth rates. These primary surpluses were, if you wish, some of the budgetary targets, some of the tax measures or cuts that were imposed, with the aim of this primary surplus, to ensure with mathematical accuracy that we could never get - and we could never - the growth rate that was the post, on which this algebraic model was built. So when we are asked today for the primary surpluses - and incidentally I say to you that we have not agreed in any case in 1% for this year, this has been the case with some newspapers, but it is not true and I tell you, for example, about 3% to 3.5% on average for the next five years, on the basis of the case, they will have more than 3% on the pace of real income development, and at the same time they are asking us for 3% and 3.5% of GDP measures, refusing to go from a static to a dynamic analysis, for example, asking for an increase from VAT that does not take into account any developmental dynamics, I am simply saying to you, Mr Theoharis - I think you understand and tell me in your denture if you agree or not - that this kind of approach is part of the problem and not of the solution. We are never going to subscribe to that. Unfortunately, Mr. Stavrous is gone. He said something that was said, namely that from the outset we said that we do not want the doses. What we say, Mr Theochari - and Mr Staikoura, if he was here to listen to me - is that contrary to previous governments, we do not put the next dose as the target. The doses are inside, they can't be targets. For so many years, five years now it has been 'now the next dose' and to take it, we have signed reasonablely inconsistent financial plans, which have raised us the next instalments we have to take to maintain this darkness in order to maintain this lie. VAT. Do you agree with the proposal of the institutions? I believe that you do not agree, because in combination with what I have described in relation to the insurance and financial framework, if we sign up to this agreement at the moment, as the Greek people want to close this agreement, in six months' time, we will be here again with a continuation of darkness. That's not what we're doing. Why? Because we are responsible for the government, and we do not endorse logically, inconsistent and non-humanist agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u120	Thank you. Mr Theocharis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much for the very detailed answer. I always get that from the Minister, who I, too, appreciate his knowledge. But we also have a few arguments, so I'm going to stick to them. You spoke about the subject of the pressure lever. You, Mr Minister, have said too many times that it is not a lever to exert pressure and the Prime Minister's journeys to the various countries, but also the possible agreements that may come from these trips. You know, however, very well - and you cannot blind yourself - that there are other major ministers who are explicitly using this strategy in an attempt to either turn the government's policy towards that or for any other reasons or simply a hope they may have. In order to deal with what you have said and to reply briefly to them, you are talking about an agreement, not about subjection. I'm with you. We do not disagree with the logic of what you say. It is also a mistake to discuss the next instalment, but it is wrong to look for a programme of materialism, a programme that will put new taxes, without any help for development. We need a simple stabilisation at the moment, which we have had in previous years, a stabilization of the primary results at a certain level tolerable and beyond reforms that will bring growth. However, we do not see, with your own logic, that this is not the case for many reasons and strategically and tactically. With regard to the regular reasons, the reasons are that because you were not mature and ready to get an agreement, which you will probably get worse in March, and you will now be forced to take it in June or July, you are making an agreement, which will necessarily have new substantial measures. It will either be an extraordinary contribution, as it is on 47 pages, which is more material than the increase in VAT, or an increase in VAT, which is in the Yunker Plan - I think a little of this is of interest. What matters is that three months later we will get a worse deal, because the numbers are worse and we start with a worse base. You spoke of an investment project. Of course. No deal can miss the investment project. But you also talked about debt restructuring. You must be very careful here. It is not possible as you did, and as you were handed over by the previous government - which actually handed over an economy worse than it was at the end of 2013 and at the beginning of 2014 - debt restructuring is almost impossible to achieve by an overall agreement. The reason is simple: you cannot at the same time ask someone for money by spreading the hand and at the same time saying to him "What I already owe you you will remove them from my téféré". They don't do these things, and the simplest man on the street understands it. I think you can understand that. It takes confidence to be able to build a proper deal. Confidence can only gradually be built by the government because it has kicked the barn with milk. The carda was half full, you came in the first few days, in the first month, and you put a stone, you filled it a little bit longer, and then you gave a kick, and now there's no trust from our partners. You are also part of the problem, because you will have to bring in a programme that will be a cardboard for the New Democracy and PASOK programmes beforehand. As far as 1% is concerned, do not give up on me. Call and talk to Mr. Flambury that last night in Ellie Stay said he would have an agreement on the primary surplus at 1%. I'm not the one who says it. I'm just conveying the message of the rest of your government. So keep an open mind. Obviously we have to think about no, but here we hear them asking us what will happen if the Europeans do not give what we are asking. If the Europeans do not give what we ask, Mr Minister, you have failed. Because you've been telling us that they can't deny what we're going to tell them. They have to lose much more than we do, so it is not justified for them to refuse the agreement with us. Finally, as far as VAT is concerned - because it is a matter that I have also made personal proposals - we do not agree with the proposal of the partners. But we do not agree with the Greek proposal. We believe that you should go to a single factor of 18-19%, at the small rate, at 8-9%. This way you'll hit the tax evasion. To relieve businesses of up to EUR 30,000 from the stiffness of VAT on declarations and payments. You won't lose much money. That's how you'll reduce red tape. So, even though there is a burden, it is assisted by the reduction of tax evasion, to multiply the benefit of the Greeks' efforts and at the same time to take something back that is to reduce their costs from bureaucracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u122	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u123	Mr. Theochari, I'm starting with the last thing you said about VAT. I'll agree with you. And the proposal that I tabled in the negotiations was close to that. It was rejected without praise from the foreign troika there. There's no troika here. We'll talk about this later. However, I would like to say something else before I mention two issues which I think are of common interest and which need to be discussed. The first is that there is indeed a democratic issue in Europe. You are right at the moment and you and too many even partners within the SYRIZA. It's the subject of information. We are now negotiating four months and the Greek people are in the dark for what we say in there. The House is in the dark about what we say in there. It is not our choice, Mr Theochari, and you know it. Casus belli, on the other hand, is considered to be a casus belli to make public in our world, our people, our Parliament, what is being discussed. Sometimes we have published things of direct importance to the Greek public, it has been considered that we have effectively interrupted the negotiations. Europe cannot go on like this, and I think that all three hundred Members of Parliament can agree here. With regard to the financial data of the five-month period in the government, Mr Theocharis, you know very well that our Government has not made any moves to justify the observed economic downturn in activity. You know very well that the reason why this downturn is, firstly, that we have a European Central Bank, which has decreased, has closed down the liquidity grid in the Greek State. From the EUR 15 billion and something of the treasury stamps we have fallen to EUR 9 billion. On the contrary, in the summer of 2012, when a negotiation took place again, with another new government, T-bills, the inmates were up from EUR 15 billion to EUR 18.3 billion. And here is clearly a political intervention by the European Central Bank. You know very well that before we were elected - and I do not think it was something you from Potami would have approved - the government of Mr Samaras and Mr Venizelos had already created since the beginning of December, at the end of November, in the context of her desperate effort to remain in power, a climate of fear, a climate that if SYRIZA wins, the next day the ATT will not work. You remember that. It is not possible for the government, even government under the panic regime, to lose the election, to create such a psychology in the world. And let us not forget that since we were elected, the price we paid as a government and as a people for the fact that we decided to negotiate was that there was no day when the WALL STREET JOURNAL, FINANCIAL TIMES, if you like, the Brussels halo, even the European Central Bank itself, did not constantly make threats to Grexit, which only creates suffocation because of the impact it has on the psychology of the Greek people. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Theocharis - personally, because you know that I appreciate you - your anger towards all those who create suffocation, regardless of the criticism that comes and can be reasonable of our government. But, now, let me close by saying something that I think is the most important and we agree that it is the most important one. What is the framework for a sustainable agreement? The framework for a sustainable agreement, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, must be made up of three pieces. The first is, of course, the reforms. The pathogens of the Greek economy need profound reforms. We need reforms both our budgets and our tax system. I don't have to tell you, it's a little too common place. The point is how we do it. But that's where we had to focus. Yesterday I said something to a TV workshop, which played in a well-known perversion. It is not a reform that cuts. Reform is to create conditions to reduce costs and to increase proportionately, for example, the sustainability of the insurance system. We need these reforms, and these are our fingernails and teeth trying to convince our partners that they need when they tell you what? Put the VAT up to 23% for electricity. Like that was the problem! Because we did not have enough VAT in Greece, and that was the problem! It wasn't the problem of collecting! We are talking about collectivity and they are saying 'Well, this is something that you will solve at some other time. Now raise electricity to 23% to have some more revenues." This is not a reform debate. And you should know that we are very confused four months now, because we who are accused of denying the reforms are constantly making reform efforts and moves and proposals that are rejected or not discussed. Well, the first thing we need - and we agree - is the reform package of the agreement. I'm going to the second one now. And I will tell you with all the love and respect I have that your criticism there was misguided, because we are not asking for a haircut. Since the first day I entered the Ministry, my proposal is for debt transfers, for debt swaps. The proposal we have tabled and have seen it, because it has unfortunately leaked to FINANCIAL TIMES - I am sure that you will have seen it - it is very simple and has a goal, how can Greece delete Grexit once and for all, deleting the debt problem - not deleting the debt problem, but deleting the problem of debt - so that it does not exist in the minds of investors, but also of citizens and consumers, looking in the future and saying 'September we will have a problem', '2022 we will have a problem', 'in 2017 we will still have a problem', 'Grexit will still be negotiated'. So how can we restructure the debt without a haircut for anyone so that this Grexit leaves? The answer you have given, we have documented it very strongly, we have submitted it to the institutions, they have not dared to criticise the proposal, they are just trying not to discuss it. In fact, technically, they have accepted that there is no other solution. And the solution is very simple and I will present it to Parliament briefly. At the moment, there is a debt that remains from Mr Trichet's SNP 27 billion, which is an old bonds of the Greek public that are left over in the books of the European Central Bank. So this short-term debt - because they've been growing these bonds for years, in the next two months, you know we have 6.9 billion to pay off from them - is creating a financial gap. The second and perhaps more important issue here is that, because it sits like a boulder in the accounts of the European Central Bank, it excludes us from the quantitative relaxation of Mr Draghi, even if we close the agreement tomorrow. If this 27 billion-dollar boulder moves from there and goes to the future, we will have first secured a solution to the financial gap for the next few months, for years and, at the same time, it will be clear that Greece can, after an agreement, participate in the quantitative relaxation. Immediately the loan rate will collapse with this, you know it well. How can this be done? It's very simple. It can be done with a new 27 billion loan from the ESS. This passiveness is borne by Greece. But basically it goes our passive way, without a new euro for the Greek Government, from the European Central Bank to the ESM with a lower interest rate and maturity - maturity - 20 years and 30 years. Of course, that's a new loan.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u124	Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u125	I'll be done. It is a new loan, but here is the issue of agreement and negotiation, Mr Theochari, and you know it. We have already agreed, at least at the top level, not at institutional level, on common conditions, to close the previous programme and to make this restructuring of this part of the debt that will be healing for Greece. In essence, such a communication - and I would add a third communication on an investment package from the European Investment Bank - in conjunction with the privatisations that will create a financial investment flow in the Greek private sector, basically, these three: reforms, debt restructuring and a package of investment which will actually attract private capital together with the privatisation programme, would constitute a 1 July communication in the context of a press conference that would put out of discussion with Grexit and the Greek crisis. That is what we are fighting, striving, negotiating to achieve for the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u126	Thank you. This timely question has been concluded. Before we move on to the last question, I would like to inform you that the Member of Parliament, Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, is requesting permission from a short-day absence from 16 June to 17 June abroad in Cappadomia. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u127	The House approved the requested permission. The sixth question under number 282/28-5-2015 of the First Cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Greek Independents Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning the need to suspend the application of provisions of the recently adopted multilingual draft for education, which do not promote the educational needs of children with autism, is not discussed after consultation of the honourable Member and the Minister responsible. The first, with number 300/2-6-2015, topical question of the Attica MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister for Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the upgrading of the Theatrical Education course, is not discussed after consultation of the Member and the Minister responsible. The eighth Question No 272/26-5-2015, on the second question of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, on the intention of the Ministry of Education's leadership for an overall withdrawal of the transfer of teachers, is not discussed after consultation of the questioner and the Minister responsible. We move to the seventh under number 281/28-5-2015 topical question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Attica of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the “Brussels Group”. Mr Giannis Varoufakis will answer that question as well. You have the floor, Mrs Christophilopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will, in fact, continue on the basis of the words I have just heard. None of us think, at least in the constitutional arch, would object to a debt settlement agreement. After all, we in 2012 have pushed the respective governments and those to whom we participated for a national negotiation team and a possibility of a minimum consensus to get the country out of this vicious circle. And no one could argue that the policy followed for many years in the European Union is at the moment a policy that produces the crisis, and it is becoming not only social but also profoundly political, with Euroscepticism, with a rise in populism and a rise in apparently demagogic parties. So I come to the point now. Minister, we've heard the government electively say it's going to squeeze the bulls and the clarines and the markets will play. But what we've seen for four months has been that we've probably been dancing for pentosal. And we danced with the pentosal and took a Scots shower, because one day the talks and the negotiations went well, and the other day nobody talks to us. But then someone's taking us back. After all these nice and communicative, after all we have heard as proposals, counter-proposals, positions, oppositions, the country needs a specific reform strategy. You may have ideas and say some at times and indeed very good times or have the courage as Minister to take the ideas of the previous government, such as the one about the lottery and say 'I will implement it'. But what exactly is your reform plan? In what way do you tell the Greek people that you will negotiate hard and succeed? For what we have seen for four months is that they have drained everything, that banks are on their limit, that the public - we have heard it before - has declared an internal attitude to payments, that the market is frozen and that the world is waiting for the agreement. The Memorandum was extended and the Greek Parliament has never seen it, and today, Mr President, we are listening to a further extension of the existing memorandum for a nine-month period. So all that remains, I fear, Mr Minister, as a sex of the government, is that this government is negotiating better and harder, because the previous government is saying 'yes'. So I ask you, have you personally as Minister of Finance, not just the narrow-minded cost of the Brussels Group, but the concept of cost-benefit, of the new way you are negotiating? Because, Minister, so that the troika does not come and can be renamed to institutions, we have spent many weeks hiding from the Greek people that the memorandum has been extended and the troika here is and reigns, but is not here. And we lived in the first few months of public officials, technocrats, officials of your government roaming between one hotel and another, often not knowing where they are going, entering the taxi, knowing that they are going to see the institutions - i.e. the troika, the same persons are, that is, Costello, Mazow, and Rice Goyal, these are the same people, they are their team from below - not knowing whether they will go to the "CARAVEL" or whether they will go to "TITANIA" or to which other hotel. Apart from the collapse, which is a cost for the civil servants themselves who were transported to a taxi in secret to prevent anyone from seeing that they accept the troika - mercy! - there is one substance, beyond the euro, Minister, for which I would like an answer. Because then we went out. What's the point of the negotiation? That there is a difference between the politician and the technocrat, which must be linked and harmonized in such a way that there is a benefit. Because what we are seeing - and I shall end, Mr President, because I will also have the possibility of secondary education - is what? It is that many times our representatives do not have the authority of their ministers to answer and go - let me - for free in Brussels. People sit down, drink their coffee and come back unreal. Why? Why, beyond you yourself or Mr Tsakalotos, who is now directing the economic part, but do you not stop being the country's representative at the Eurogroup, beyond you, the other ministers themselves? How exactly do they participate and how exactly their own initiatives in the fields are linked to the negotiation that is taking place? Because if we even saw the first things that you announced to us today in the four months now, because what you announced to us today is your first approach, which we now hear, on debt restructuring, which I will agree is the major one. How exactly can the Greek citizen or Parliament know what your areas are? Why you don't want to reveal and you can't reveal what you hear inside the Eurogroup or what's happening in the Brussels Group. You can, however, reveal to the Greek Parliament your reform intentions, even. Your intentions are being heard in general terms. Plans in particular, we haven't seen. So, Minister, I think you should see the Brussels group again. You need to appreciate it, make a cost-benefit analysis and come here to the Greek Parliament. If you have anything to tell me now, I will be delighted to hear you and answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u129	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all the Brussels Group is over. So, your question is a little delayed, but here we are, let me answer you. The Brussels group is closed. This stage is over and we have been through the technical, technical negotiation, the political negotiation, which is a huge success of the government. You said something, which you will allow me to tell you is not accurate. You said that on 20 February and a few days later, on my signature, the memorandum was extended. The loan agreement was not extended, so that the Memorandum was abolished, so that we can negotiate its abolition and be abolished by transition to the post-mortem period. The reason why this negotiation is taking place is precisely because we did not extend a memorandum, we did not accept it, we rejected its philosophy, its logic, its absurdity, in fact. You said something else, which is absolutely inaccurate. I'm sure you just don't know and you didn't do it on purpose. You referred to specific names. For example, you said that Mission Chiefs, like Mr. Richie Goyal, for others Mr. Mazuhu, came to Greece and we hid them. They never set foot in Greece, in our government! And we are very proud that the troika has ended, at least in the Greek area. In fact, on the day that I took over by the Ministry and on the day that it had come and visited me, and the President of Eurogroup, Mr Gerun Düsselblum, explained what the difference is. Some need a second explanation. I'll do it. The difference is that the troika is not the institutions. The institutions are the institutions that Greece has been part of since 1944 in some cases, as in the case of the International Monetary Fund. The Troika is what the PASOK - New Democracy governments have brought since 2010, which was nothing but a team of technocratic occupations, who invaded your ministries - then - a fellow Member and conquered you with the ministers, the Secretary-General, the Greek State and the Greek people. I want to tell you something else about the Brussels group, perhaps something that is not known, perhaps something we should have already said in the past. After three days of negotiation, a debate on the accuracy, consultation, very collaborative and cooperative nature of Mr Pierre Moscovici and me has emerged. And when we arrived, Mr Moscovisi returned to me and said that this is something very good that we did, which was abolished by the troika, the invasions of the ministries, where the technocrat interrogated the Minister, humiliated the Greek Parliament by sending texts written in English, which were translated into google translate in order to legislate here in this Chamber. In fact, Mr Moscovisy told me that it was supposed to be that way. And these are precisely, verbatim, his words: 'The discussions should be held in Brussels and the ministers should speak only with Ministers.' So the question you raised - because I imagine that five years of troika exercise has established you in this kind of thought - who Minister was talking to Mr Goyal, is none. We are particularly proud of this and it is something that the Greek people are proud of. In your written question, you have even taken the initiative to ask me the question - and I will reply to you - how many meetings took place in the framework of the Brussels Group and how much it cost. Seventeen meetings were held and travels cost 66,687,34 euros. And you know what? It was an amazing investment in re-establishing the country's dignity. Why do you have to answer the question now? How much do you appreciate the humiliation of your ministers all these years? How much do you appreciate the indulgence of Ministers to wait in their own ministry outside a room for their turn to be interrogated by a technocrat who no one had ever elected? How little do you appreciate the upsurge that the Greek people felt in seeing that the technical staircases were at the CARAVEL and that we had denied them the automobiles they had been used to for so many years? How do you appreciate the fact that the Greek Government has not agreed to continue the attempt of technocrats to build careers by making carnivores in the place of Caliph, not to say Tomsen in the place of Tomsen? Do you want to calculate the costs paid by the Greek people for so many years of troika hospitality? Because when they came here, we were paying for them again. If you don't know, I'm telling you. Personally, as a member of this government, I feel absolutely proud that no troika has ever entered my ministry or any other ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twelve representatives of the Finnish Institute of Athens and Finnish teachers of middle-education history. Welcome! The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u132	Minister, you're not telling the truth. And you're not telling the truth why the Memorandum was extended. You call it a loan contract like the troika you want to call it institutions. That's your right. But tell me why you are not tabling this - we cannot have a debate, does the President of this House not agree, does he think it is a communiqué, as he said, on 20 February - after we have asked you to do so? We have asked you on several occasions, Mr Venizelos. Why don't you deposit it with the annexes? For the Greek people to see that a loan contract can never be valid without its annexes. Allow me, that's the way it is. And the memorandum is valid and the Greek Parliament has not seen it and you are not tabling it. And I do not accept a single word about it. Because I've lived on my skin what it means to negotiate hard and quarrel, I'll tell you something. If you had accomplished anything, I'd say good for you that you don't see Mr. Goyol and see him underneath you. But what did you do? Take the chief off first. Because - as I told you - it is not just a matter of costs, and I thank you for the information you have given me. Of course, it is not possible to compare the figures for the five-month period with the four-month period, but it is not there. It is the essential cost - benefit from the way you negotiate. Well, well, you don't see Mr. Goyol, they see him underneath. Why have you changed twice between Mr. Theaharakis and Mr. Juliarakis? Why was there an incident? You're pushing me with all the nice things you've told us, to tell you a very specific story, Minister. I'm sure you'll know her. One of the big reforms that we had started, and we have to do it anyway. Tomorrow morning, the debt must be settled and given to us all, the single wage must be paid, must be completed. The first attempt, which began some years ago, must be done. So you cannot discuss this and you do not want to discuss it. And outside don't tell them any details, don't lose your dignity, but present it here in the House. I know very well that the officials of this ministry who traveled for the Brussels Group said we didn't give you any clues because the Minister wouldn't leave us. Indeed, there is a great deal of effectiveness in the negotiations! While presenting the country with a plan of seriousness to the partners and institutions, it loses credibility, you are right. You asked why it's 18-1 against us? Have you ever asked any of them? For I am speaking, Minister, and we are also talking to MPs and other parties and our own party at European level. Well, they haven't seen a serious reform plan from this government. What do you tell me about negotiations now? What exactly are you negotiating and what is the serious thing? You're talking about investment projects. Of course you are right, there must be investments. What's your plan, and when did it come here? Has he come to the government's programming statements? There you were talking, Minister - and quite rightly so, I was in agreement with you at the time - about the 70% of the part of the current memorandum that we had to adopt on our own, because that would benefit the country. And who was right, Mr. Lafazanis, who still wants to, and told us here in the House, to statize everything, and he doesn't accept anything or Mr. Baltas who takes us back to education forty years? It shall be invoked by the Prime Minister and the OECD. These are the things of your own government. You may want and be a reformer, but the things that have been done so far, and what you have said, are so vocal and conflicting, that if our partners and lenders do not see a seriousness in terms of a reform plan that they do not see, they are not going to give us anything. And this loan, for which you have spoken to us, will go to the bells if the Greek Government does not show what you said now. But who will you negotiate with? Are your colleagues tabling such plans? Does Mr. Army and Mr. Skourletis have a plan for his insurance and his profound and substantial reform that you must bring? But all you want and all you do is literally keep this fig sheet, because it is a fig sheet, that you, my dear, are best negotiators. Minister, the result counts. And the result the Greek people have not seen it. And there are people who voted for you to leave HNVY, there are people who voted for your 12,000-euro tax, there are people who voted for you because they broke up from our own policies. These people feel betrayed and you know why? Why did you tell them nice words and fine words easily burn! I therefore call on you, having partly lived in the previous difficult period, to see the reforms, firstly, and secondly, the way in which you are negotiating more effectively. I insist: any political negotiation without technically thorough, systematicly prepared at a level that is back office, without a systematic back office, will therefore fall. Look what happened to you the right thing to do, I say again, the idea that we have to give an incentive to plastic money. You said to motivate him through the lowest VAT. It couldn't be done. Before you say, Minister, triumphantly this right idea shouldn't you see whether the banking system and how it can do so and what are the legal implications? So I want to say that where you are suffering is to link your ability to make reforms - which you do not have - and your ability to have a technocratic, serious support for the political negotiation. We are with you as Greeks in political negotiation, but we do not see any results.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u133	Thank you. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u134	On a technical issue which is important for VAT and discounts, I would like to say that it is legally sound and technically prepared and we will do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u135	Do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u136	Listen to me. I'm going to let you know. That is why I came here to the parliamentary control to inform you. But when the other side tells you that "I do not want to discuss this in the context of VAT. Do it separately through the banking system as a return, which will not be an integral part of the value added tax system, but will be irregular," we agree. Because we're trying to make a deal with them. We will do that because we want it for the reason you said, namely, that our own reforms go far beyond their own.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u137	Where is he?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u138	Wait. Wait, because you know that right now we're in a negotiation we're investing in twenty-one hours of 24 hours. Because I do not want to oppose it and I have no reason to oppose it when you are criticising our reform gaps, we do not yet have tabled the reform programme as we want it and as it deserves in that country. We'll do it. And your criticism, as is the case with all the Opposition and Coupling, is very constructive and we invite it, not only do we accept it. But you will allow me to tell you this and so I will close: Our ears and our eyes and our souls will be much more open if you do not ask questions like the one you have done, which show a nostalgicness about a Tropical process that humiliated the Greek people. If you can dismiss this past, in a way that I think even would honor the memory of Andreas Papandreou - since you are from this area - I think that the debate between us would have been much more constructive and we could also go better together towards the reformist path that the Greek people demand to develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u139	Thank you. I will announce to the House that the Special Permanent Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its report on the request of the Prosecutor for the granting of a criminal prosecution warrant against a Member. We will conclude by announcing the timely questions which have not been discussed because of the Minister's impediment. It's: The second under No 309/2-2015 topical question of the second question of the Parliamentary Kastoria of the New Republic, Maria Antonio, to the Minister of Health, concerning the problems of the operation of the General Hospital of Kastoria. The fourth under number 305/2-2015 topical question by the Member of Parliament, Eitolakronania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the payment of workers to the Greek Habitats of "Asteria SA". The sixth under number 240/19-5-2015 topical question by MP Trikala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Simorelis, Minister for Health and Finance, regarding the planned payments for drug expenditure. The ninth under number 218/14-5-2015 topical question by MP Kilkis of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of National Defence, on the degradation and devaluation of the institution of the National Guard. Finally, the eleventh question under number 263/26-5-2015 of the Second Cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Panhellenic Socialist Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs, concerning the transfer of the Department of Administration of the Open University of Crete from its headquarters in Archanes of the Municipality of Archanes - Asterousias to the Municipality of Platanias Nov. Chania. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-06-11-S1-commons.u140	With the consent of the House at 13.17 p.m. the sitting is closed tomorrow, Friday, 12 June 2015, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and b) applications for waiver of immunity of Members, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
