ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting of the LEGISLATIVE WORK [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Resolution of the State Budget for the financial year 2016’. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Ayhan Kara Yusuf, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, this is the first time that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has tabled its own budget, a national budget which is an attempt to correct the country, to support the social structures and to relaunch its productive tissues. On the contrary, the budgets of previous years were accounting images of decline, underdevelopment and abandonment of a state. While we were opposition, we were accused of being ethers. Now they're blaming us because we're pragmatic. Clearly, we understand the difficulties and limitations that exist. SYRIZA is not in the government by chance or by chance the people trusted him in the last two elections, perhaps the most critical of the last decades. At this difficult time, the government is doing what it can and unfortunately not everything it would like. She does what is allowed by her mismanagement, tax evasion and corruption of previous governments, because the country's current image is the result of previous elections, of our practices as a people. It is a good thing that we do not forget, so that we do not fall into the same mistakes again. The big landowners, with lots of acres, were receiving subsidies, while the fight of the small farmer, the worker and the honest free trader had never been supported. The Government has shown us from the outset what its priorities are, in particular by trying to strengthen weak social strata and address the humanitarian crisis immediately. Through the budget, the successful programme has continued and strengthened to meet our need for food, electricity and shelter of four hundred thousand people. The development plan of the previous governments is what has reached our people in this situation. The development announced by previous governments has led to thousands of padlocks, unemployment, youth migration, etc. Let me continue with a reference to the rural world, due to my origins from a rural family and from a rural area, but also because SYRIZA has fought great battles to highlight the agricultural sector as a key pillar of development. Unfortunately, the reconstruction of the agricultural production policy has been a long way behind, with the responsibility of all the Governments of Transmigration. The construction of the customer state, the dependency on subsidies and the creation of a small group of privileged producers has been affected by a large majority of small and medium-sized producers, which are currently on the limit of survival. The government's strategy is to boost production, promote cooperative schemes for the exploitation of agricultural and livestock products, mobilise all productive forces, prevent the disinvestment by Greek farmers and fairly distribute tax burdens. We will protect agricultural income, in particular what is below the poverty line, and give incentives and aid to young farmers. Furthermore, the administrative management and payment mechanism will become more immediate and flexible so that the farmer is paid quickly and ensure the necessary liquidity without losses. Despite the difficulties, already in the first few weeks of December, farmers will be paid more than EUR 1.2 billion with loose ends from 2009. As a government, SYRIZA has already worked out and legislated measures limiting the tax burden on agricultural income. For example, compensation for natural disasters in the rural economy has remained tax-free. It was planned to tax them from the first euro at a rate of 13%. Farm subsidies have remained tax-free up to 12 000 euros. This regulation covered over 90% of farmers, mainly small and medium-sized farmers. There was a tax on the first euro at a rate of 13%. Another point I would like to make is growth and, in particular, regional development. After months of the country's absence of a development law, our Government has developed a new framework of incentives for private investment. Despite the difficult economic situation, the use of closed industrial plants has been supported. For example, in our Komotini industrial area, we have been committed to restarting ENKLO, the United Clusters, as in Evros the Sugar Industry now operates. Our Greece, through the extreme Thrace, by exploiting its traditional relations with Bulgaria and Turkey, as well as the neighbouring countries of the Black Sea and Russia, must be active in cooperation with European partners to strengthen its role as Greece, the country - bridge to a new architecture of security, peace, stability and development. Finally, I would like to refer to the major issue of education. This year we went on to recruit more than twenty thousand assistant teachers in primary and secondary education, i.e. four thousand more than last year. At special treatment schools, records were recruited, with an increase of almost 50%. Also, since this year the institution of aiding teaching has been restored and the classes of aiding teaching have been reopened, which is supposedly directed at children of poorer social groups, who do not have financial capacity to take care of them. At the same time, the program for the distribution of quartish to school is piloted. In technical training, the available ones were returned, and this year they were placed at organic posts, professors of PES specialisations whose positions had been abolished. The 2016 State Budget has been drawn up on the basis of budgetary coercive. However, the government has sought that there should not be a substantial new reduction in the insufficient funds for education anyway. They remain stable at 2.8% of GDP. In this context, there was provision for not leaving the funds for student care, which is so necessary to address the consequences of the crisis experienced by students and students. In conclusion, I would like to stress that sterile political criticism is the easy solution, especially from colleagues who are still part of or come from former government parties. It is very difficult to assume the responsibilities that one is responsible for, and unfortunately few have the courage to do so. I am voting in favour of the State Budget of 2016 and I expect colleagues to do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to Mr. Stamatis, I would like to make it known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of the House, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Hellenic Chamber VENIZELOS and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th High School of Nea Smyrni. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Stamatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, one day Hodjas saw his friend sad. He asked him why he was sad and he answered: “Because I saw in my dream that I had won 200,000 and on that basis, I told an engineer to design a house for me. He designed it and cost it exactly 200,000, but I forgot to put on a stable to put my horses and my cart and I'm sad." Hodjas tells him: “It is simple. Say you won 230,000 and make the stable you need." Why am I saying that? In order to be able to judge the reliability of the budget. When a budget is submitted, it can be criticised, because it is against other anti-grass or anti-development or otherwise. Anything you can say. One element, however, must be undeniable, the question of credibility at the very time it is tabled. So it's true, at least at the time, if it doesn't keep going, some of his basic assumptions. Last Thursday in the Committee on Economic Affairs, I ask the Minister, Mr Tsakalotos: 'I have the assessment that this budget is overrated in its basic elements'. His answer was: 'No, he's underestimated'. It was not twenty-four hours and ELSTAT announces that for the third quarter of 2015, the recession is not 0.0% but 0.09%, almost twice. What does that mean? This will have further consequences for both 2015 and 2016. One of the assumptions in the budget, before it was announced, has been cancelled. I asked him one more question: 'Mr Minister, are you sure that the capital controls will be lifted?' Because we hear various views from government officials. Each Minister has his own view of when the capital controls will be lifted. It tells me: 'No, I'm not sure of anything.' So when two main assumptions, at the time when the budget is being submitted, do not apply, one has already been cancelled and the other is doubted by the Minister of Finance itself, what credibility of this budget can we talk about? That is why it was forced yesterday - I do not know if you have noticed - the Deputy Minister of State, Alexiadis, and he clearly implied the fact that this budget, which lasts for 2016, is likely to change. That is certain, because there is also an overstatement of revenue. And I wonder: In an economy in a recession, how can we expect an increase in tax revenue? Where's that money coming from? At Thursday's sitting - and I say this to inform you and the Greek people - I have raised another issue that is useful for you to know, to which I appreciate. It may have an opposite political view of things and it may belong to a different school of politics, but it is a serious man and it has relieved us of the atrocity of a roaring human - suffering, which has given us internationally, Mr Varoufakis, the star of the first left-wing government. So I asked him: "Mr. Minister, since the government took the responsibility to end the second memorandum, did Draghi and the European Central Bank have the opportunity to continue providing liquidity to the Greek banks?" And he's answering me 'no'. An honest answer, he said, to an honest question. I say this because we are tired in this Chamber of hearing Mr Tsipras misinforming the people. It says that banks and capital controls have been imposed by foreign lenders. They didn't impose them. It is a conscious decision of the Greek Government. If Mr. Tsipras knew so, when you have glorifiedly interrupted the second memorandum, their responsibilities are heavy for what is next. If he didn't know, he's inappropriate for a prime minister. So do you realise that we have a budget based on wrong assumptions, wrong data, with bank closures in fact, with no funding, and I ask you: Where will there be a development that you are evangelizing? And because I don't have any more time, I'd like to dwell on the subject of consensus. He asks for a consensus from Mr. Tsipras, who, while in Civic Opposition, did not stop saying "if I visit Maximos, I will visit it for one reason, ask for the resignation of Mr. Samaras and his government". Did she think about it then? Oh, no. Mr. Tsipras re-quested a consensus last summer. He asked for the parties' consent because he had lost the majority. Another day in the House I will tell you how he caused the majority to be lost in the House, so that early recourse to the polls can be justified. Three of your colleagues voted against, abstained, cast white, in the vote on the third memorandum. They practically voted against the Prime Minister. It was a proposal from the Prime Minister. They were found on election day in elections, while the rest were thrown off the lists. The number of MPs Mr. Tsipras now had was less than a hundred and twenty. So it could be justified that he lost his last fort too. How did he lose it? He did it himself. But, in any case, he called for the consent of Officer Responsibility and other parties. We did not agree either with the negotiations it made, which we ignored and now ignored, nor with the result. We then supported the government's decision, so that the country does not fall on the rocks, so that they do not take us out of the euro. He asked for the support, promising that he would not go to a sudden election. The next day he went to a sudden election. What kind of credibility does this Prime Minister now ask for a consensus? And because, Mr. Theonas, I heard you the day before yesterday complaining about the morality, the style and content of the speeches of the speakers of the opposition, I heard nothing strange.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u5	I told you about the faggots.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u6	I, however, heard the Prime Minister two days after the meeting in the Presidential Palace, begins a public speech with the phrase: 'Dogs bark, caravan moves'.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u7	He's not talking about you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u8	Didn't I get it? As you want to see it? Who's he talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u9	For dogs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u10	For the interests of the great.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u11	That suits you, that's what you say. A Prime Minister, therefore, asking for a consensus, must be more modest. And it's not. And in any case, what does he ask for, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u12	Forty-eight prerequisites.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u13	Consensus, he says, for the insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u14	Please, Mr. Stopate, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u15	I shall conclude, Mr President. But he's taken you out of this dilemma. By voting for the budget, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you are actually voting for insurance. For 77% of the cuts provided for in the budget relate to pensions, subsidiary and all other benefits. Makes it void in advance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] And, of course, it is not legitimate for us to ask for a consensus when it is his behaviour. He could ask for a consensus if his behaviour was different. And above all, if he submitted this budget by asking for "sorry" at the same time, not from us, but from the Greek people. I am sorry, because in the budget this is what he had renounced after abomination. I am sorry, because in the budget this is not what you promised. And I'm sorry, because because of this political fraud he won the election twice. From us, then, you cannot have such a consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Stamatis. But I would like you to clarify whether what you mentioned about the Minister of Finance...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u17	It's written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u18	... that he told you about the capital controls?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u19	I've written it down. Let me give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u20	In other words, this is his official position in the House. It's not a private conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u21	He's in the House's Committee on Finance on Thursday.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much. My compatriot, Mr. Ilias Cameroon, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fourth day we are discussing the budget. Of course, many things are repeated. What we need to understand, however, is that all these repeated arguments from the opposition, that we have shown inconsistency, that we have fooled the people, that the memorandum was inappropriate, that we closed the banks, that pensions and all that, which are all lies, are all a dialogue, which I think Parliament has tired, but much more of our people. And I think it has also given answers to these issues in practice. The only good thing that can come out of this whole story is their insistence on being judged by the left and said that these measures are not left. But they do nothing but confirm the hegemony of the left's ideas in society. You confirm that it really is the Left who struggles for the lower layers, fights for the weak, etc. And that's not to be lost. What I mean: we must respond - and every day we will respond to the people, to all those who have voted for SYRIZA and the current government - that we will not be lost, we will not lose this element here. And it may be bypass right now that we are forced to pass, but we do not lose our way and that, when we get away from these difficulties, we will implement our prologue programme. In addition to the budget, although weak, even through these difficulties, this dimension is reflected here. That is why I have said repeatedly and again to stop this dialogue with the opposition - it does not matter, we do not benefit from anything, nor does the country benefit - and let us see really, let us talk to the people, to respond to the real problems that we are currently dealing with. Because time is limited and I cannot talk about everything - and I do not need it, because many have been mentioned - let me refer to the issue of the budget in relation to islands, since I am from an island. Are we happy with the print on the island budget? No, ladies and gentlemen, we're not. Could it be better? And he could have and he couldn't. On what issues could it be? I have said on many occasions that I have proposed to the Ministers, and from this Step forward and in writing various proposals, which may be within this suffocating framework, in which we are moving and not let the lenders - as I have told them - take a breath, but there are some things that I do not think would affect the minimum extent of the budget so that we can give the small islands a breath to what they have under three hundred inhabitants. And I have said on several occasions, Minister, that even two thousand inhabitants are not all of the islands with fewer than three hundred inhabitants. And they're paying HISBIA. And it is a pity to go to the Arquis, on the island that has seventeen to twenty inhabitants, and to tell me that one of their main problems is ENPIA. In fact, in real estate, which they state and are also claimed by the public. The amount is minimal and does not affect budgets. We know very well that our area in most islands has been hit by immigration and refugee. They've destroyed operations. Would it be so difficult to say that in this area, even with certain strict criteria, those who have lost them are reinstated in the hundred instalments? Is it very difficult to take some of these small measures to taxly alleviate the small islands? I understand that there have been difficulties in this budget. But I say it because, especially for the islands that have abolished the reduced rates - and they will be abolished in the next few minutes - we need to build the parallel programme. So we absolutely need to see - and we can - health and shipping issues and much more. I shall refer to some of these briefly. And the Ministry in this regard, through all its problems, has already set up the Island Policy Council, which has so far not existed and is planning to set up an institute. You understand that it takes some time to do this. However, because there is a need for major changes, up to a change in the regulation, the structure of the ministries, in order to do all this, we need to make some things like what I have said in everyday life. In particular, in the health field, it is not possible for the hospitals of the islands, Mr Ministers, to be treated like hospitals on land. You have to understand. So we can't say we have two doctors. We know the difficulties in recruitment, we know it's not easy to move. But some recruitments are made, some locations are made. And that is what we need to give the islands priority. It is not the same thing that the hospital has not had a pediatrician - which has not had - fifty and sixty and a hundred kilometers from Athens to the hospital in Kos, who has not had a pediatrician for seven years, with forty thousand inhabitants and a million five hundred thousands of tourist arrivals this year. That's what we have to understand. I am not addressing the opposition. I don't expect anything from her. I'm addressing us. We must understand islandity and apply it in practice tomorrow, with little things that we can do. It is not possible - be careful - to have an employee of the Kalymnos, who has the responsibility of Patmos, Lero, Astypalea, Leipzig, Agathonisi, all the islands. An employee! We had a problem, but also where there could be some kind of business, like in Patmos, where we have traditional settlements! Antypalaea, Patmos, Kalymnos are traditional settlements with terrible problems. An employee can't handle it. We can't, that is, we can't put a second, third employee over there. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. We have to say too many problems. But we can build a parallel programme for the islands, with little things that don't cost us. The same applies to teachers. It's not the same thing to say that I'm going to have so many teachers per so many students in the rest of the islands and the same on the islands. It is not possible for the Arquis - I insist again, Minister - to have children who do not continue after primary school, because they cannot go to school. What about tele-education? We have to move on. What about the services? It is not possible, as the previous government has done, to abolish tax services, for example, and not to take into account the fact that this cannot be done on the islands. You can't dismantle services in Kalymnos, in Leros, to go to Rhodes or Kos or even to Kos' services to transfer them to Rhodes. It's not the same. There's a peculiarity. We need to take care of the potion of islands through which all the legislations will be passed in the next period. I'm sorry I don't have time. But we will see to it that this filter works next time. It's the difference of the Left that everyone accuses us of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much. Mr. Davakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, the electronic system has perhaps brought it - not luck - to succeed in the step by the chosen colleague of SYRIZA from the Dodecanese. In the ears of all of us is the narrow voice of the government side in the election, that no bills to abolish VAT on the islands will pass, heroism, controversies, discrimination and all that constituted your opposition rhetoric. Fate brought it, though, and history so the things that you come here two months after the elections and continue in the same style of opposition tactics, you speak as if you were a Member of the New Democracy and of the Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u26	Is that what you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u27	Nemesis, which follows the hybrid, always follows us, Mr President. And I speak to a man who, from what I have seen in this House, is distinguished from his decency and his dynamics, representing the people of the Dodecanese. But that is: The ancient goddess of Nemesis will always lead and follow Hybris. Historical excitement has been that you have taken advantage of the difficult moment in our country, taken advantage of the difficulties, exploited the economic measures, unbearable and sinful, I would say, for us economic measures to ensure your government's prospect. And you did it. Nevertheless, it has been two months since then, ladies and gentlemen, that the Prime Minister in this Chamber during the debate on the programme statements gave the tone and the note of his government's term of office on a four-year basis. The budget is coming today and tells us a few things that only the tone of the four-year period does not give us in terms of its programme statements. No plan, no programme, no argument, no reason to justify that there is a strategy and a plan for you in terms of the current budget that we are discussing and tomorrow we will vote and we will not, of course, vote. There's only one difference. From what was happening in the previous budgets brought by us - and I am glad that Mr Stagioras, who had the great burden of their pensions, is here - you are not changing almost anything. Even some pages, however, as mentioned yesterday, for example, page 92 is identical to page 193. One thing we've been different about. We differed from the fact that we had finally balanced budgets, which is no longer certain when it comes to doing so. After a leody contract signed by Mr. Tsipras with Mr. Kammenos, we all expected that you would in any case have a left-hand view of things, on which we could also rely, put back beyond the back that we put the stones of the 15th century and for which we are invoked today, hypocritically in the way. Still, nothing happened. No plan, no plan. Copys and falsehoods, of course. You realise, ladies and gentlemen, that a government, like yours, will not be long-term, based on further lies. The nemesis will come. I believe that the first step of your policy, which was this first budget of the SYRIZA Government with the ANELs, could give a perspective so that it would put our own criticism of what I am saying these minutes. What has to happen is to stop aerobisms and land, land the government side in reality, stop the rhetoric of division, that this party serves an economic elite. What financial elite does this party serve? And its history and its roots and personal routes to these people today made up of the members of this party do not justify this immoral lie. I, ladies and gentlemen, have been representing the Larcona farmer, the Larcona breeder, the Larcona fishermen, the Larconas unemployed, the small and medium-sized one, as you all represent him. I do not want to refer to the prominent names of the economic elite today that are assembled and assembled in your ranks. I would therefore like you to stop saying such things and I would finally like the plan that the government is invoking to see it. Not to wait even today, one year later, for the amendment on the Lefktro - Sparta, adopted by the Court of Auditors and still not here to go on a road and complete, which has been completed by 90%. Let us not expect the port of Piraeus to be partially privatised, as it has already been said, and all that that makes up a good tactical and political practice that you are pursuing. Do not listen to the ideals of excellence, as we heard yesterday from Nikolaos Thibaeus, MP of Boeotia: "Do not deal with the idealism of excellence, which relates to 0.7% of the students". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I want to close these short minutes that the Rules of Procedure give us with the issues of the Ministry of National Defence. Unfortunately, we see in the budget that they are reducing their operating budget by 5%, which means a reduction in fuel, a reduction in uniforms, a reduction in supplies, a reduction in supplies, a reduction in the mental stimulus of our Armed Forces, as well as - and I am glad that the representative of the ANELs, Mr Terrence Quick - has announced that he will be included in the budget for the other 50% of the remuneration and the right of the military, active and retired officials of the Armed Forces, the Council of State, their cuts. Nowhere has that happened. The Samara government had given 50% of the cuts. You're only an announcement. He referred to seven months ago, Mr. Quick, in military schools, he referred to television interviews, and was mentioned by the House Step. These successive announcements by the Minister remind us of a trumpet in the old barracks, when we still had those heroic subjugations, the mullies that glorified Greece in the Greek-Albanian mountains,...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u28	Please, Mr. Colleague, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u29	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. There was a trembling, "weaving hay" or "weaving half". They also swept underwear when they heard that trembling while they were hungry, stopped and calmed. Is it the "walk hay" in these announcements to honest and proud Greek officers and active executives and retired executives?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u30	So you're assimilating them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u31	I'm not assimilating anything, Mr. Theonas. Don't be so easy on criticising. You underestimate the intelligence of the Greek officers and soldiers, who are unfortunately awaiting such announcements. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr Kammenos, who has repeatedly asked him for an appointment and does not accept them and finally tell us what happened with the contract signed with the Piraeus Bank on 23 June and nothing has happened yet. The pride of the active and retired Armed Forces is not bent by the lies and by the sculptures of "heavy hay". It's just, it's just, it's,
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u32	What will happen, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u33	It bothers you, ma'am, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u34	Finish, Mr. Davaki, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u35	It is about what is happening all the time, particularly in this Chamber. Correct yourself, because things are beginning to get serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, too. I would like to comment on a point made by Mr Davaki which does not concern Mr Davaki personally. Parliamentarians are free to express themselves critically, whether they belong to the League or to the Opposition. In fact, it is also best for the Coupling to make criticisms. In other words, it is not wrong for the Member to say something he thinks is wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u37	I barely did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u38	That's right. That's what I'm saying. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday, 7 December 2015. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 235/1-12-2015 topical question by MP Samos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Health, on the issues of the operation of health centres and decentralised primary care units of the Prefecture of Samos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 228/27-11-2015 by MP Drama of New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks about development planning for Drama Law. 3. The 230/27-11-2015 topical question by MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK. - Mr Ioannis Manniatis, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on delays in the performance of the special wind power station production charge to the beneficiaries of the Argolida mountain communities. 4. Under number 237/1-12-2015, a topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Health about the decision by the administration of the OKANA to interrupt the operation of methadone units during the weekend. 5. The question by No 226/27-11-2015 of Mr. Achaias, Member of the River, Mr. Jason Fotella, Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the sustainability of the HERE's therapeutic and pedagogical centre "MERIMNA" in Patras. 6. The 232/30-11-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the delay in granting the oil allowance. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 225/26-11-2015 topical question by Piraeus II of the Central Association Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on measures for the immediate coverage of the gaps in primary and secondary education in the Municipality of Saronicos. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 236/1-12-2015 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Irinis Kasimatis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the exception of the Orthodox Perama - Salamis from the concession of the Greek State to the PPA. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 229/27-11-2015 topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Prussias Prussia to the Minister of Health, on the problem of the operation of the Dumotio Hospital. 3. The 234/30-11-2015 topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism regarding the planning of the investments provided for in the development laws and the extension of the deadline for the implementation of the remaining investments. 4. - The current question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Security, on the reintegration of all workers from the recycling plant in Heraklion Crete from the WAST SOLUTIONS company. 5. - The current question by MP Larissa of the River Mr Konstantinos Barriota to the Minister of Health regarding the reduction of the number of donors and transplants carried out for 2015 in our country. 6. The 233/30-11-2015 topical question by the Member of the Attica of Independent Greeks Mr Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of Finance regarding the imposition of a luxury tax on luxuries cars. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question by No 231/30-11-2015 of the Greek Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism of the question of the risk of unfavourable financial consequences to the debt debtors of the main residential housing loans in case of partial coverage by the Greek State of the amount of his monthly payment. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 456/30/22-10-2015 question and application for the submission of documents by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for Athens of New Democracy Mr Nikita Kaklamanis to the Minister of Finance concerning the public debate between the Government and the Secretary-General of Public Incomes. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Bardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the problems of workers in the region of Central Macedonia under liquidation. Mr. John Stephen has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. In ancient Greece, in addition to Nemesis and Hybris, there were the Henrys. The Henrys seem to have been absent from the mind of many of the colleagues who ran over the past few months. Ladies and gentlemen, I should particularly like to address the opposition. Thinking of what the Vice-Presidents, in particular PASOK and the New Democracy, have told us and listening to their arguments here, beginning this debate on the budget, I am indeed very interested in the question of how you really find the courage to make such criticism of the first budget submitted by this left-wing government and the Independent Greeks. It is the first budget numerically that has a social value. You led with your policies and brought the country into this terrible situation. You're the one who broke down the funds, you threw thousands of civil servants on the road, you threw the new generation into unemployment. You left schools without teachers after you have at least five years to appoint teachers, left hospitals without doctors and nurses and destroyed all concepts of a social state. You have not touched anything and there is nothing to do with corruption and complexity. So you come to us today and move your finger, outraged and awkward for what this people are burdening you, you who no longer own any Erinda for the burdens that you have borne on this people, at least in the last five or six years, but also in the previous decades. But let us put things in a row, ladies and gentlemen. This government, the Left Government, has been carrying out and maintaining a budget planned by the previous government for about a year. It was not our budget that we are currently implementing. So during this period and in the middle of a tough negotiation, we were called upon to implement a budget which was not designed by the present government, without any external aid, in your interest. So the new budget with two objectives has been tabled: on the one hand, we have the objective of budgetary equilibrium so that the deficits and, on the other hand, we have social justice in favour of the weak. I would like to refer to the area of education, as I come from this area. This year the government appointed four thousand forty - seven more educational deputies in primary and secondary education. Technical and vocational education has been returned to the "available" and technical schools and the PESA have reopened. Obviously, there is an absolute need to recruit permanent staff in higher education. It has therefore been designed as a priority and has recommended the Ministry of Education to the relevant Ministry of Finance the recruitment of eleven thousand teachers. It is known that allergy has the large part of the counterpopulation, mainly the PASOK, the New Democracy and the River, in public education. For a while now, the Bourlanges programme in schools has been operating, which I feel a little shame in bringing it up. However, the situation led to the country where it was led, i.e. the caterpillar in schools. Eleven thousand students get breakfast. Imagine where we've arrived. We're not proud of that. However, we are trying not to live again on the phenomena that we have lived in PASOK and New Democracy governments and to faint young children in schools. No one's proud. Of course, at the same time, important initiatives are being taken to recruit scientific staff in higher education at the TEI and at the Schools of ASPATE, so that research programmes can be completed and outside as few as possible young scientists. In the health sector for the first time after many years, permanent staff will be recruited to hospitals and free care will finally be provided to all uninsured people who have been treated for so many years by the Greek state and your governments, PASOK and New Democracy as second-class citizens. The unemployed and the unemployed don't pay public transport tickets. At least, we won't have the phenomenon of an unemployed person's life cost as much as a ticket. We continue the programme to deal with the humanitarian crisis, which covers about four hundred and fifty thousand people, with feeding, electricity, housing by means of a rental subsidy. It's not much, but it's important. EUR 350 million is planned to increase expenditure so that there can be an effort to develop a development policy within 2016. At the same time, we are keeping spending on TAs and Preferential Benefits firm, and we are providing more than EUR 823 million for social costs. For example, 62 million euros go to cover uninsured overages. You'll tell me, all this is self-evident. Yes, they are self-evident, but you did not. But I will answer you why you have not done so. We're other worlds. You insist on redundancies, the privatization of education and health, the poverty of the people. You tolerate corruption and complications. The audits have doubled in the first quarter of 2015 and the corresponding first quarter of 2016 is foreseen. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, the budget tabled by the government is a realistic budget. It enables us to pursue a social policy. It's a redistributive budget. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot close our eyes in a Europe that changes, in a Europe that fights the policies of austerity every day, at the level of movements and at the level of governments elected by the people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In Greece, the people trusted the government twice in a year. We are watching Portugal, Spain and Britain. This world is going to change it. They must be examples of yesterday's movement and we must take strength from them. It is not just these, it is also the safeguards of these strike mobilisations in businesses that you are always protecting and doing well. However, we are talking about enterprises which have circumvented every concept of labour and labour rights. Finally, for this world and along with this world we give and will continue to fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Stephoe. Mr. Karasmanis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if with three words someone was trying to describe the 2016 budget, he would simply say that it is the most materialist, tax-based and, therefore, the most anti-developmentist of recent years. It is a budget that reproduces and intensifies the disastrous combination of overtaxation - recession, a proven disastrous recipe with no prospect, no outlets, no hope, that is, what it takes to deepen the frustration and turbulence of our society. The worst is, however, that it is exacerbating the crisis that is now six years of not only performing and dismantling the Greek economy, but as aggressive metastatic cancer it is destroying the inspiring of our fellow citizens. I would like to ask the Members of the House not to invoke the condolence to the vote in the third memorandum last summer. The Memorandum, ladies and gentlemen, is the framework for how the indicators and the necessary reforms of the Greek economy should be initiated. In no case, however, is the special roadmap for how the objectives pursued can be achieved. It provides opportunities and flexibility in the common direction, giving us the opportunity to multiple choices. All Greeks know under what conditions, under which prospects we have given our vote. Ladies and gentlemen, imposing only taxes and other taxes and additional taxes is a admittedly easy solution. Only the last citizen is aware that this practice, the imposition of more and more taxes, is the most appropriate one to lead a country to further predicament, to its market, to even greater recession and to even greater unemployment. Nor do we need to have a postgraduate or doctoral economy to see that cuts in resources, such as pensions, social security benefits, benefits, lead to a growing social crisis and a greater decline in our economy. It is very easy to bleed income and stifle family budgets in the air, as well as it is easy for farmers to make greater contributions to the OGA, to increase income tax and tax advances, to abolish them the reimbursement of excise duty on rural oil. Do you need a lot of brain to predict where this leads? It leads to a further reduction in the competitiveness of our agricultural products, to the deterioration of the already heavy trade balance. And these for a sector that could and should be a pillar of the development and recovery of our economy. It is not necessary to be an economist to understand that development tools are very specific: the Public Investment Programme, the ESDP, the Community co-financed programmes in the agricultural sector, which are left untapped in drawers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, with the slight increase in the Public Investment Programme, which is the fuel for the restarting of our economy, we are then guided by the completion of the absorption of the NRP funds, funds that can provide growth throughout the entire Greek region, jobs for young people, to ensure the payment of significant amounts of VAT, more income tax, more contributions to the funds, to ensure more work in shops. Here, then, the most infamous equivalents you say you are looking for, gentlemen of the government. It is at least outrageous and unheard of to remain untreated by the previous Rural Development Programme of EUR 902 million, due to the Ministry's failure for one year, with a risk of being lost or, at best, to be transferred to the new development programme. This will, however, mean a 21% reduction in the funds for the new programming period 2014-2020, that is to say, a 40% reduction in the funds for rural farm development programmes and businesses, and this will in turn have a direct impact, with a reduction in the funds for the establishment and modernisation of small and medium-sized rural enterprises, such as startups, newly-born businesses, and so on, and the strengthening of young farmers to deal with unemployment. But there is, ladies and gentlemen, the other risk that these 902 million will not be approved by the European Commission for transposition into the new programme. Then we will have to pay the beneficiaries through the Public Investment Programme, with all that that implies. At the same time, I would like to tell you that our government last year in November and December paid producers over 2.5 billion, an important economic breath for the market that is now kneeling and squeezing under the lack of liquidity, and today producers are looking to find their rights and do not know when the repayment will take place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] But, at the same time, you are also abolishing the measure of the Rural Development Programme referred to in the ELGA. That is to say, you are flying a sum of 200 million, money needed to cover certain insurance risks to plant and animal production, and at a time when damage is constantly increasing due to adverse climatic changes. Ladies and gentlemen, I told you and the other day, it is very easy to tax on the wine of the people rather than to restructure vineyards, make them more competitive, more productive, to promote Greek wines in the local and international markets so that you have more than doubled revenues from the tax you impose. Only that's why it takes vision and mainly work to implement it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not without the basis of what is said in politics that a government's prospects are being deleted from the first hundred days in power. In your first term of office, months were wasted in a miserable so-called negotiation, with the known ending. They tend to pass both the hundred days of your second term and we will, from what I see, have one of the same measures as supposedly equivalent measures to make a nightmare greater than the measures themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u42	Please, Mr. Karasmanis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u43	I shall conclude, Mr President. Since this is your budget, since this is your vision, since this is what you consider to be the fulfillment of your promises to the Greek people, you like us, but our vote is self-evident. Thank you. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u44	Thank you too, Mr. Karasmani. Mr. Gaki, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, I would like to focus a little on the position of my political director, Yiannis Theonas, who raised an issue regarding the quality of the debate, the direction and the course that the Greek Parliament can and must give. Unfortunately, we are all aware that the Greek Parliament has come to the service of communication rather than the substance. Anyone who cries more and swears more becomes more beloved and the best. Unfortunately, hypocrisy and populism are too much. I shall avoid standing at this level, so I shall say that the draft law we are debating today is defined in the main political guidelines, set the objectives, indicators and ceilings for state expenditure in a critical period for our country. The European Union of solidarity is questioned by conservative and extreme right-wing circles. Instead, people insist on defending the basic principles of the French Revolution, freedom, equality and brotherhood. The Government gives us battles every day so that Europe can face up to the major challenges of the times, such as the refugee problem. It fights to defend Europe's multicultural character. It gives every day battle so that Europe can face up to the major challenges of the time, which, as I said, is the refugee. We are working against the degradation of social cohesion that the conservative neoliberal elite wants to impose. It fights to cancel the plans that want Europe a fortress surrounded by wires. In this context we are discussing the draft budget today and this is his great challenge, to act with social sensitivity in the context of the possibilities of the August agreement within an association of equal partners. The government has laid the foundations for stabilising the economy with a plan aimed at restarting economic activity, with reforms leading to growth. The implementation of a new development and budgetary policy requires a budget that goes beyond its nose. The first positive reversal sign is found in the revision of the forecast for the recession, which for 2015 will range to 0%, while for 2016 it will be limited to 0.7% with a prospect of further decline. Thus, in the second half of 2016, the Greek economy will return to positive growth. The financial adjustment of the programme agreed with lenders is limited to EUR 500 million and will be about EUR 5.7 billion. The primary surplus target for 2016 is 0.5%, while on the basis of the previous PASOK and New Democracy governance programme it would be 4.5%. The cost of the measures it would need to meet this objective of the previous government is certain that it would exceed 10 billion. For the first time, we will try to achieve the 1% of GDP savings set out in the August agreement not by horizontal cuts, as has been done so far, but by streamlining the system. Here too, we must stress that most of this savings - 0.6% - have already been achieved by increasing the age limits and by 0.4%. We say that 0.4% are ways of finding it without painful pension cuts. The biggest bet is to make the system sustainable again, proposing a new overall system which is the general equivalent of the Memorandum measures. We are calling for national understanding here. Your denial, gentlemen, is a denial of the country's prospect. For the first time after a whole five years the budget that has been tabled gives considerable weight to the increase in social expenditure. Increased health, education, employment support and the fight against the humanitarian crisis by 823 million euros are planned. There is only an increase in the costs of EUR 300 million for health. In the Ministry of Health, that is, from EUR 48 million, we go to EUR 80 million. We are talking about an increase of 45%. They're recruiting staff. Mostly until the beginning of the year, a thousand doctors and nurses will be recruited. For the first time, five years later, health recruitment was carried out in order to meet the major health shortages of nursing establishments. In particular, in the island country and regions with specific characteristics, the role and effectiveness of the health system will be ensured. That's the beginning. They will immediately follow new institutional steps towards the implementation of upgraded social services. Also - and this is very important for our regions - the government has obtained a double-payment from social funding of 14% instead of 7%. Also, in the Ministry of Shipping, we have an increase of EUR 30 million in expenditure. In the Ministry of Education we have an additional EUR 120 million since the 2015 budget. In the Ministry of Development 140 million more, i.e. 35% more. From EUR 463 million we go to EUR 603 million. In support of the unemployed, a total of ten thousand eight hundred thirty-five or twelve-month-olds will be employed with EUR 500 million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, can I have another minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u46	Absolutely, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u47	In addition, we have already passed a law on the media. Now the responsibility lies in the opposition, which must at last consent to the appointment of the members of the PSE, so that competitions for media licences can proceed. The overall responsibility of counterpopulation is great. In your hands, ladies and gentlemen, it is not to confirm the suspicions that you want to cause by your regular blockage of the application of the law. Furthermore, we are not sitting with our hands crossed and in the fight against corruption. Comparing October 2014 to October 2015, i.e. two months, with similar tax obligations for citizens, the Greek State received more than EUR 700 million. Ladies and gentlemen, our aim is to develop a strategic review of the country's development model, which will lead to the reduction of inequalities, the redistribution of incomes, the restoration and respect of rights, the strengthening of social solidarity and cohesion with key development axes to increase employment, innovation, the extroversion of businesses and the repatriation of its new scientists. Return to growth is the only safe response to challenges. We call on all parties, instead of struggling in communication, to go beyond the small ones and to support the big and difficult ones. It would also be more effective and more beneficial for the place and society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u48	Thank you too, Mr. Gaki. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theory of the Parliament, since they have previously participated in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation, twenty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 8th Municipal School of Agios Dimitrios. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Stavros Kontonis has the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware that in the years of the Memorandum of Sport has been an area that has received too many cuts. And I sincerely want to tell you that the cuts made this year in the field of sport with this year's budget for 2016 are nothing pleasant. However, we will have to see the actual sizes of these reductions. I would therefore like to say first of all that the main reductions are made in the area of transfer payments. That is to say, grants to federations and stages. We are talking about a 7 million cut, because that is the real reduction. The additional reductions are made in the area of remuneration and additional benefits, which there is a household and, of course, from previous years to downward management. The important thing is that at this time we need to deal with a reduction of about 7 million. This is the real picture. Because the previous government had taken care of the circular issued by the Deputy Minister of Finance on December 12, 2014 to limit funding from the already voted budget to 90%. The federations and the stages, that is, did not take all the money that had been set aside, but 90%. So here we need to see things and tell you about the efforts the government has made to save resources. These 7 million which we have as a deficit in fact are limited to 3.5 million. And I would like to say that, in any case, the federations - because we are in an Olympic year, since 2016 will be the year of the Olympic Games - will take the money they took last year and for 2016. This is due to the fact that, every year, additional funding is being provided for national missions, as is the case here, which must be taken immediately in order to make better planning. I would therefore like to say that as far as the federations are concerned, funding will not be reduced by a single euro, because we are looking forward to this additional grant, which we will receive. But I would like to tell you that this year we have given the stages in addition - I stress it - EUR 1.2 million. We did so as a matter of priority, because the image of the stages which we received was a picture of total destruction, abandonment and non-use. The degree of risk was high. In particular, at regional stages, athletes who were subject to clubs or even citizens who use sports facilities could not be played, precisely because the situation was indescribable. Therefore, of the EUR 7 million, which I mentioned already, we are going to EUR 5.8 million. Of this again this year, we gave the federations an additional EUR 2.5 million to meet needs and indeed through the fight against waste and the restructuring of the existing budget. These were the efforts we have made and we are actually limiting the deviation of the 2015 budget from the 2016 budget to this very small amount of money. I find it very small the sum of EUR 3.5 million, which, as I told you, not only will we receive from an additional grant, but this grant is estimated to be about EUR 9 million. So we'll have to make more money available to both the feds and the stadiums. Where we have to stand a little is the tripleness of the ESRB's budget. The ETUC is the National Doping Combat Council. Ladies and gentlemen, we received a budget of EUR 50,000 in 2015. With this budget, the ESDP not just would not work, but would close. And we have already had the negative impacts from the International Federation, WADA, on the way the USSR operated here in Greece. The funding, therefore, of EUR 50,000 that we found, goes to EUR 200,000 and no longer there is any problem with the operation of the ESRB. If it exists, it will be dealt with during 2016. In any case, we are ready in terms of funding and of the legislative framework, because I have informed you, as the Council of Ministers in Brussels, that Greece is ready in 2015 to ratify the agreement with WADA. We are therefore leaving the surveillance category of other countries, such as France, Spain and so on, not to mention more. It will be discussed in 2015 and we will not even need the time horizon until 31 March 2016 that has been given, because we have taken a great deal of care and serious action on this problem to give a immediate solution. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to these, at this time at the Ministry of Sport, there is a great deal of work to find resources. The ESDP programme in which we will incorporate the energy upgrade of the stages is a pillar of direction for how we should work and for the money to be made available, but also for saving resources. Also, not only because of the fact that the stages at last receive the debts of years - and I had told you in the government's schedule statements that we found in the OAS 13 million euro debts and in the RFF debts of EUR 4 million - not only there is a flow of money that the stages will use, but the stages themselves will work so that they can make it happen and do so. Also, additional revenue in 2016 will be the creation of a special own resources code to deposit the money imposed on professional groups on the fines due to violence. We will also limit to the extent necessary and as far as possible all that huge operating costs are incurred with the new organisation which is being drawn up, and then we will also see the possibility of transferring them to other services that they may wish to do. In this context of resolution we have already agreed with almost all the federations on an evaluation plan, to see which federations - and the federations themselves want - are able to absorb money from the state budget. It is a project of evaluation of the actions of the federations, which on the basis of the plan will also claim funding. Finally, with regard to the Public Investment Programme, at a recent meeting with the mayors of the Western Attica, we were asked to give great weight to small projects which can meet the needs of mass sport, but also a large part of the population and unions. They are small coaches and not pharaonic works for the glory of national contractors. And that's what the Ministry of Sports will do. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that, unfortunately, this budget is being discussed in Parliament at a time when the candidate presidents of the New Democracy are on television every day and instead of listening to proposals, instead of listening to concerns about the major problems that concern society, we are following competitions who will be more aggressive to SYRIZA and its President, the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u50	What do you care?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u51	Unfortunately, there cannot be a serious debate on the budget in this way and there can be no serious political debate. At last, hold a conference, elect your party president to understand what you're telling us, Mrs. Vulture. To understand, at last, who is...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u52	You go to government six months and we'll do this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u53	Mrs. Vulge, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u54	You see that not only does the government rule, but it also sets order in a thirty-year-old mess built by PASOK and New Democracy. Thirty-three years old!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u55	Let us go and do yours. Now, did the Chief hurt you?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u56	Please, Mrs. Vuldesis, right after you speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u57	And most importantly, there's a class where you have the biggest problem with corruption.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u58	Now listen!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u59	For these are the big issues. If you can, finish with the procedures, to restore a normality.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u60	What do you care? Go, go, go, go, go, go!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u61	Complete internal procedures to restore normality, Mrs Vulture. Don't ever interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u62	But you're talking about our party.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u63	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u64	There is a need for regularity in the issues of dialogue, which Parliament needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u65	Does our Chief depend on your own governance?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u66	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u67	You're hurting parliamentarianism.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u68	Yes, now it's the pain.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u69	With what Greek society sees and international public opinion, you are harming the institutions. Understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u70	Now, don't you leave what you know? Rule a month or two before you run elections again!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u71	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr. Contony. Now you'd have the floor, Mrs. Vulture. Why are you interrupting?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u74	Uh, let them rule a couple of months and let us go.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u75	Okay, but now you'd have the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-three students and students and two fellow professors from the Corinth Municipal School of Athletics. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is a school day. Mrs. Vulture, would you agree that Mr. Kelles will speak and then you will?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u76	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Kelles has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the first budget of the left government in Chidras - Kammenos at a very negative juncture of events, both abroad and within the country. The deterioration of neighbour Turkey's relations with Russia, the terrorist strike in Paris and the possible conversion of the country into a warehouse of impoverished souls also bear on internal developments. The'second time left government' is in complete weakness of governance. Left policy is naked and the so-called left social sensitivity has become full anesthesia. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget you are bringing to the vote is anti-development, inefficient, socially analgesic and purely materialistic. Furthermore, I do not see the intention of implementing the memorandum you signed, and I am very afraid that you have fallen into the vicious circle of government introvert, inactivity, election and, in general, throwing the ball at the platform when the difficult ones come. With this budget you practically admit that your administration in 2015 has been destructive, wiped out the sacrifices of the Greek people and the consequences will continue in 2016. After all, the Minister of Finance himself told us that the issue of Grexit has not left the table. Our country from the primary surplus for the first time after fifty years and growth, returns to recession and deficits. And you boast. What exactly? Because the recession is a little less than the budget? Because if you compare the performance 2014-2015 and the forecasts 2016-2017, it is overwhelming at the expense of your Government, the Left Government. And all this following unprecedented pension cuts, additional private sector taxation and an increase in unemployment. Are we or are we not in any worse situation today than last December? Unfortunately, we are all, ladies and gentlemen. And the worst, we will be next year, despite the sacrifices of the Greek people who cannot hope for a better tomorrow. Why did we have to go to a referendum, due to the referendum in capital control, to leave 100 000 businesses in addition to going abroad, to increase unemployment, to reduce heating allowances to half? Why did tax rates have to be increased, private investment stopped, privatization has to be punished, tax advances increased and the market deprived of cash? To satisfy what? Your ideas? Or did you arrest the tax evasion and bring money to Greece from the Lagard list and the other lists at your disposal? Climbing is the recapitalisation or rather the sale of Greek banks to foreigners. It's a scandal equivalent to national moderation. Ladies and gentlemen, you have sold out the Greek banks. You taught what a sale means. And the worst part is that you have passed all the assets of the householders and business to strangers. As far as the social state is concerned, which you are essentially degrading, the overall cuts amount to almost EUR 2 billion, of which EUR 1,85 billion is for the insurance system, which is cooling. You reduce pensions, probably those under 1000 euros. You're cutting off the C.E.S.A. Dismantle the single one to breathe into the system, but in fact you get it from the afflicted people. The problem with insurance is, I believe, the contributions and the solution is private investment, the reduction of unemployment and the creation of new jobs. To attract investment, however, we must create a stable tax environment with low tax rates. What we had started, but you did not let us complete it. You, not only do nothing like this, but because of your idea of increasing taxation in the private sector, you have also stopped the payments of public debts to the private sector. Do you not understand that this has a huge and disastrous impact on liquidity and ultimately on employment and there are no other room for resistance? While we had received due debts of about 9 billion in 2012, we handed you debts of 3.5 billion at the end of 2014. And you reached that in ten months at 6 billion. This policy, ladies and gentlemen, leads nowhere. The economy will never return to growth. To tackle the humanitarian crisis, you promised 2 billion in Thessaloniki. We voted for EUR 200 million in the March budget and now we see only EUR 100 000. What happened? The humanitarian crisis is over and we don't get it? Because I see, it's over 100. I now come to the critical health sector. I will read to you what the current Minister for Health Mr Xanthos said last year in the budget debate: 'With today's budget we are discussing, it is not undone, but it is evenly strengthened by the memorial logic of cuts, the compression of public health spending, the depreciation of public structures and the strengthening of the private sector'. So what now? Subfinancing is evident, hospitals operate at 40% of the budget and 30% below last year's figures. Not only keep it, but extend the clown back tool to the medical expenses of hospitals. Do you want me to tell you what your government said in February to the pharmacists? They know better than that. May I remind you what Mr Kourublis said in the last year's debate on the national pharmaceutical industry? Mr Kourublis said in March: "Greek pharmaceutical companies should pay less rebate." Can I tell you what he did? He increased the rebate by 150m euros and the successor of Mr. Xanthos comes and lowers the price of the Greek drug up to 1 euros. The result is that with mathematical accuracy we have a destruction of the Greek pharmaceutical industry, an increase in unemployment, a higher financial burden on Greek patients and no benefit for the insurance funds. The same policy is being pursued in all areas. The increase in contributions, in favour of EPPY, supposedly, with a 6% reduction in pensions translated into 814 million euros for 2015. Of this, only 214, the remaining 600 million where did they go? Debt or pension payment? You are seeking, ladies and gentlemen of the government, an extreme consensus to rule, forgetting your attitude in the past. Communicating with who? With the "German girls", with the social killers, with the corrupt, with the "old", with the "toxic" New Democracy, with the "dogs"? Do you want a consensus on what exactly? In a further reduction in pensions, social analgesia, private sector destruction and further state growth? Or do you want a consensus to pretend you're supposed to be ruling and mocking social groups? So far we have had: from February to September we voted, from September to today we are voting, and from yesterday our Mr Apostle has a new invention, we are voting - it says - but we will not apply it. If that's possible! We did not ask you to go along with this, you did it for communication reasons, but also for your parliamentary group to be assembled. My friend and patriot Lakis Lazopoulos, who is also a friend of the Prime Minister, know how he said that to the "Ten small Mitsus"? Exercises of courage. Let's see it a little. Ladies and gentlemen, the country must be governed. If you can't, give up. This budget cannot be implemented, although you would like it very much, and that is why I will not vote for it, hoping that it will be the first and last budgets of the left government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr. Kelles. Mrs Buddhism has the floor. Now you're going to say it all, Mrs. Vulture.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. We laugh because I also wanted to talk about what Mr Contonis said, that they cannot govern because we have not taken the lead! What I was yelling underneath is: Rule two months, what will happen to you? Do you really need to have us? We're talking in here. What do you care?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u81	That's not what we said. We have said that there is a debate in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u82	We're doing a dialogue here. That's what we do. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u83	Conjunctions make the Chiefs who will be more aggressive to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u84	Aren't we doing you? Do you know what the problem is?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u85	Mrs. Vulture, time passes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u86	You'll give me time, as usual. Look, unfortunately, we are laughing because it is really funny for a two-month government to deal with what opposition is doing. And I say, sit down six months and work. Do your job and rule. Are you dealing with us again?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u87	Six months will you have to make chief, Mrs. Vultursis?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u88	You know, it's really for laughing, but, unfortunately, things are very serious. And because there has been a lot of discussion - the budget here by all my fellow Members, I would like to take the opportunity to say the following: I understand that at the moment we are facing a national disaster with what is happening in the country not only at economic level, which is reflected in this budget - the government of SYRIZA and ANEL has become a kind of 'inventor of taxes', in a sadistic way you have invented taxes - but also at national level now. I mean, so far, we've been going into the euro. And I still don't know where we are. Now we're going to Schengen. A chaos has been created at our border with Macedonia. And while it is well known that the decisions on the refugee issue had been taken since October, we are now learning that only yesterday the government demanded the activation of the European mechanism. Mr Muzalas himself said so, the Minister responsible, when asked: "Well, since October 26th, the refugee summit took place. Why did you expect the incidents to take place today, to intensify?' And the episodes you knew since August. Since August we have had problems at the Skopje border. And yesterday Mr Mouszalas replied: 'We did not do it two months ago, because then we were still unable to weigh exactly our needs'. Watch out now: Captain - we're talking now! - from Genoa. When problems began, the Government spokesman told us that we were spreading terrorism. It's becoming an absolute mill in the country. Syria's refugee was inexhaustible in 2013, and this situation was not only there, but we had never dealt with it. Suddenly, this whole situation is happening and the Minister of State comes to tell us, 'we made the request yesterday...' - today, that is, he said - 'because two months ago the decisions were taken, we did not know how to weigh our needs'. Since April, four interministerial ministers have been under Mr Tsipras, an interministerial minister under Mr Voutsi, then Minister for the Interior, an interministerial minister under Mr Flambury, and you still do not know how to weigh your needs. But that's not the problem. That would be a steep incapacity and an unjustifiable excuse. You are here in unjustified reluctance or rather in justified reluctance, because you do not want to do so. If we look at your texts from the SYRIZA programme in 2012, from political decisions, from the declaration of the European elections all day you are fighting with those who want something to do with immigrants. Open borders, not a fortress Europe, out Schengen. Why are you yelling for Schengen and disgusting one another? The text, the SYRIZA declaration on the 2014 European elections, says, “Outside, Schengen, open borders”. Now what's wrong with you? It's not just that the Prime Minister, who's running the video. You write it in your text, 'Outside Schengen'. So the other guy tells you, this is where you don't want us. You don't want us! "Outside FRONTEX," you say. By January 2014, you remember what happened. Two shipwrecks had taken place on our day in Samos and Pharmaconissi, and you were almost crucified to crucify us. And it has drowned so many people in the Aegean Sea, you are incapable of helping these people and creating this situation. What did Mr. Tsipras tell us in 2013? He wrote to Robai that no FRONTEX can deal with the situation. What did you tell us on October 26th? He said Mr. Tsipras made three absurd suggestions. One of them was to get FRONTEX to our border with Macedonia. Well? This is not so long to say, why do Europeans not guard our borders that are European borders? So what now? What was our point? And after all, keep them if you can! Keep them! We see the chaos you've caused. So long I remember saying that Europeans should come to guard our borders and not make so many equipment. Only tweets do you know how to throw down and self-determination the Prime Minister? He went and met with Dabutoglu. He went to Turkey. He saw him again in Europe. He's supposed to solve issues. Mr. Tsipras met with Ivanov of Skopje. And what was the result? As a result, Poposki, the Foreign Minister, told us to go and find them with Greece which is a member of the European Union and which is a safe country. I mean, he's throwing us the ball. Do you know what's happened? Twenty days ago, the Commission's progress reports on Turkey and Skopje came out and were negative. In twenty days these reports were overturned. Turkey's accession process has accelerated. So, what else is this gonna happen now? Are we going to do the grace in Skopje, because we can't do what we have to do at the border? I am telling you this again: there will be a problem of national destruction. It'll be much more serious than you imagine. Come on, then, and stop pretending to be heroic, that we do not accept this, and we do not accept that, for the country has been dissolved. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would just like to say a few words about the budget and consensus. You don't need anything. You do not need us because there are all the statements - and because I do not have time to do so, I will put them for the Minutes - from which it appears that Mr Tsipras, Mr Kammenos, all the members, all the ministers, all the Members, say that the people agree. That's what you're saying. ‘He was aware of the Agreement.’ "This is the first time she voted knowing the agreement." "He is an ally of the government." 'The people are being tempted with the government'. I've got them here. I'll give it to you for the Minutes. Title: 'Declarations on the people's agreement'. So the people, ladies and gentlemen, are in agreement with the budget, with what is coming for insurance and everything. So you don't need anyone else. You have the people with you. You have the people together. There are, for example, your statements on the fact that the people agree with you. Please, I'm tabling them for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Sophia Vultesis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned statements, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So if the people agree with you, we are spared. You will proceed with the people who agree with you. Whatever the agreement, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Vulge. Mr. Manius has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will avoid the great temptation to respond to what I hear not only today, but also in the previous days, except for some exceptions. I'm going to try to see the budget with the eye that I saw all the years when I was a mere trade unionist and we were looking at the budgets. I will not only see the budget from the point of view of the figures. Let accountants, economists, tax operators and I don't know who else is. Each country's budget, at any time, for each government has a basic political core, a political thinking. The budget of all the previous governments, on a memorandum and before the memorandum - because this story of how we got here we will then - is based on a logic. It is the logic of neoliberalism, which they do not accept in public, with all the meaning of the word, of course. No, I'm a neoliberal, I'm young, I'm a liberal. "Neo-liberalism" means less state, more private initiative. What does that mean, practically? Since 1990-91, when we gave hospital cleanliness to contractors, we have reached the phenomenon of 'Kuneva'. We have contractors and they get rich and we have workers slaves. That's the model. And when you hear the phrase, 'Strengthening public spending', what does it mean? It means the taxpayer's money to go directly to contractors of all kinds, to health and education and everywhere. This state, we do not want it. We have created a budget on the basis of stabilising the situation - we are at the tartars - and launching a development process. We have not brought a budget of euphoria, we have not brought a budget that will lead us tomorrow to socialism. "We are not ethers," to remember the well-known phrase of Andreas. We are bringing in a budget with two elements: firstly, stabilisation with a view to small growth - and you are underestimating it here - and, secondly, to take off the odor, smell, and the fragility of social justice that we have and our politicians did not have. How did we get here? Because whoever discusses a budget in 2016, in 2010, in 2025 and does not see how he got there, he cannot understand anything. How did we get here? With the historic name of PASOK, who said a dear colleague here yesterday, in 2009 they won the election. At the end of 2009, the report of the Bank of International Settlements has Greece in the first five eurozone countries, which had a credit rating. Instead, we entered the memorandum in five months in May 2010. And since we entered the Memorandum, which was a conscious choice, determined from 2009 at the meeting between Almunia, Barozoz, Konstantinos Karamanlis, which was then Prime Minister, and George Papandreou, who took place after Prime Minister, we do not know that. After agreeing to accept the logic of the Memorandums, namely the logic of a policy of strict austerity, the dissolution of institutions and the state, they now come and tell us, "Give only a hundred million pounds for social solidarity". And instead of crying that we have to give just 100,000, not a billion or more, instead of crying that we need to feed the kids at school, they tell us we're giving them a little bit. I'm sorry for the tension, but my tension is not against faces, it's against a historic process. And because... [[Noise from the river Wing]] Please, Mr. Theochari, don't scratch yourself in the cup of the chop. Let us see a little what is wrong with the opposition: the famous social consensus. We asked for a dialogue, of course. But let's see our story. I didn't mean to say that, but I have to say it, respecting my age and the history of our country. When the Left came out on the left in front of society, from '42 onwards, there was never a consensus with the Left. There was a war, from the Civil War to the 1961s, until the junta and it goes on to say. Can we get them one of those evidences? What happened after '58 when the HR got 25%? Any attempts to reach agreement? The 1961 elections were held which were an election of violence and fraud. What happened in the mid-1960s when the left developed an amazing labour movement? It's the junta. Can we talk more? What happens now that the Left is coming out front? If we're going to go porn to the ruler's right and PASOK, the hugs will be open. But coming under the leadership of the Left, which is at the wheel now - and history will judge us - does not accept it. On the contrary, they increase the battles against us. I also disagree with a number of my colleagues and my colleagues who are wrong between dialogue and consensus. A dialogue has been requested by the Prime Minister, I, too, call for a dialogue, not a consensus. Consent is not going to come as far as we train drivers are. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I wouldn't take the minute, but I have to say a word about the refugee. There hasn't been a word, beyond numbers, of evidence, so many people drowned there and I don't know what. What has annoyed the opposition to refugee policy? One thing is that they do not dare to say: that through our attitude - with the mistakes, with the imperfections - we have raised on the surface all the positives of a people who are endowed with knowledge of immigration, he has knowledge of the Asia Minor Disaster that the Left has not done. The name of the Left is not linked to any national disaster. Others are connected to them. Do not claim that we will lead the country to national destruction. We'll help the country, and that's what upsets you. It upsets you that we will survive and make policy and you cannot deceive the people. So that's what's bothering the Opposition. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Manier. Please, Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Lefkada Parliament, I will begin with the catastrophic earthquake that hit the island on 17 November and we have mourned two human lives. It is not only the earthquake of November 17, it is also the multitude of transmigrations, which have led to dozens of families being unleashed and to the destruction of schools, streets, public buildings, ports, churches, infrastructure networks and generally to change the lives of residents. The needs that have arisen are great, and what I ask this Stepma is to give immediate attention to what the Lefkada Prefects deserve and to restore the damage caused to the island. It is incomprehensible that after eighteen days the first extraordinary help of 586 euros has not been given to some one hundred seventy families. We are talking about a sum of just EUR 100,000, which would cover the first basic needs of the affected. It is inconceivable that we do not know when the students of the high school will return to the rooms in the southern part of Lefkada, in Basilica, and when the high school students - how much more so the seniors who run the Greek examinations - only yesterday, after three weeks, will begin the courses. The Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Networks, Mr Sguridis, visiting the affected parties, among other things, promised that it would help, due to the situation, by strengthening medical staff, and the Lefkada Hospital and the Vasiliki Health Center, which covers the areas most affected by the earthquake. We're waiting to see. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are not begging. These are benefits that Lefkada and the state have to pay. And as a Member of Parliament, not of the New Democracy, but of all the Lefkadians, I will seek no excuses for national economic closeness and no delays or cutbacks in what is laid down in the Law on earthquakes and compensation for citizens, but also for the restoration of material damages. What Lefkada is asking for is not to be abandoned at God's mercy. What Lefkada is asking for is to get what is right on time. We must, in other words, help every way and every tier from the state, especially those who have lost their homes, their jobs and are unable to cope with everyday life. Ladies and gentlemen, on the budget: We have all seen that the 2016 budget is nothing but a plan to intensify the frustration and desperation of the Greeks, a plan of recession, unemployment, cuts and taxation. It is a budget that is'shocking red', not because it is the first to be tabled by a left-wing government, but because it is the sign of the negative. It is negative in growth, it is negative in investment, it is negative in social cohesion. It is a budget that secures national insurance, eliminates wage earners and pensioners, equals the free professions, farmers, creates new unemployed and new waves of abandonment of the country by our young people. I shall start with the insurance policy, which, with the cost reductions, is a saving budget of EUR 1.8 billion, putting a hand in the pocket of the retired and the insured person. Main and supplementary pensions are reduced. Retired people's social benefits and solidarity benefits are reduced. The one-off reduction is reduced, the beneficiaries of the CSR are reduced. Contributions to the OGA are increased and withholding 6% in EOPY pensions is maintained. However, the measures that have been included in order to save EUR 1.8 billion do not result in this amount being read out of the budget. There is a hole of EUR 400 million and it is not clear what measures will be taken to cover it. Are there any thoughts of increasing employers’ contributions? There is no doubt, however, that next year will be very difficult if you think that only the expenditure on pensions and insurance benefits will be reduced by EUR 1.6 billion. And that money will come out of the pockets of all the insured. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, apart from taxes and cuts, there is nothing for the private sector, for employment support, and above all for the rural world. We all know how important the primary sector is in our national economy, not only for its contribution to GDP - around EUR 10 billion to EUR 12 billion a year - but because it provides, to a large extent, our food adequacy and supports the productive and social fabric in the Greek region. Therefore, instead of supporting effectively its development, farmers for 2016 are invited to pay an additional 102 million from the increase in the contribution to the OGA, 13 million from the abolition of the refund on agricultural oil, 32 million from the increases in income tax and 78 million from an increase in tax advances. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One minute, Mr President, because I referred to the earthquake in Lefkada. Please. They are measures that have already been voted on and therefore await the second package that will result from the discussions with our lenders and will level what is left in the Greek countryside. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, a year ago in this Chamber you were not only shouting that you would smash the memoirs, you were not only feeding a third pension. You have already threatened elections - and you have succeeded - on the occasion of the election of the President of the Republic. You have used all the patronage of political indulgence. Instead of eleven months after you have broken the memos, you are bringing in a budget which - as the Deputy Minister of Finance said yesterday, Mr Alexiadis, from this Stepma - is moving within the logic of the agreement and the commitments that the country has. Gentlemen of the government, with your budget, you admit you lied to the Greek people. Gentlemen of the Couple, from your policy the Capital Controls have come and remain. Every month, taxes that cannot be paid are increased by EUR 1 billion. Every month, thousands of people are out of control in the insurance funds. The public owes more than 5 billion of VAT refunds to private individuals, strangling free professionals, employment and the market as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u93	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u94	Public works and social subsidies are misleading. And the continuity of your policy makes it even worse for you. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy as a side of responsibility has already made it clear that it supports every national effort that gives prospects to the economy and supports the Greek society. But to be an effort aimed at the real development of our homeland. Unfortunately, this is not provided for in the budget you have tabled. For these reasons, I shall vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u95	Thank you. Mr Georgios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what characterizes the SYRIZA Government is an absolute consistency in all its programming speech from 2012 and all issues relating to the implementation of individual policies and the governance of the country, except for the issues of the economy. In all other respects - and I must admit it - I see and see an absolute consistency of words and works. To be clearer, I will read to you three series only from the 2012 SYRIZA government program on immigration. Greece cannot be the European Union's border guard. The only realistic and humanitarian solution is to allow those who want to continue on their journey, as well as equal integration, legalisation of those who live and work here. We seek to create open places for the hospitality of refugees, with social and legal protection services instead of concentration camps that are being prepared." Absolute consistency of words and works! That's what SYRIZA wanted for immigration policy, that's what we're experiencing and we're paying today! Ladies and gentlemen, Idiom Kilkis is developing into a symbol right now. Unfortunately, it is not just a symbol of entanglement of human souls. It is a symbol of irresponsibility, complicity and self-restraint of the government in policies and practices which become dangerous to the country. When the idea that I mentioned before, it is the dominant element in the SYRIZA immigration policy, when we are now forced to move behind the official threats to expel us from Schengen, then the folding of government officials is now beginning. I would like only one thing, however: this retreat is fast and short, not as it was with our financial issues with the partners. The longer we are late to have a realistic response to the immigration problem, the greater the damage to the country. As long as we are late to adapt and work with the partners, so that the separation between economic migrants and refugees can take place, as long as we do not provide the services we are asked for, both Greece is at risk of a loss, which will be much greater than the economic risk that existed. Because the damage will not only be economic, but it can also have consequences for our own national situation! This danger has not yet been realised by those in charge of managing this very serious issue. I have heard the Deputy Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Muzala, say yesterday from this step, that we should in Idomen - at last, I say - give a solution. This solution, of course, will not be a simple trip to the college students' forest. I couldn't agree more. It won't be like this, as SYRIZA has been entangled in this ideology and in the situation that is tense and escalated right now in Idomeni. Usually, however, this setting, as the Minister for Migration Policy described it, namely the forest with students, who are on a trip, is a stage that is also used to a thriller. It's a set where dragons and murderers fly through shadows. This very serious risk - I want to believe that since yesterday the officials responsible for administering this issue - have started to understand it as far as the country is concerned. Because - you know - the partners came to a consultation, they set back on the economic issues of the country. These issues, however, which are now calling for consensus and consultation with us, are issues where they are particularly sensitive in all the countries of Central Europe and have acquired particular criticism because of the latest developments with terrorism. And they see that a country can only not keep its borders, but refuses to operate and refuses to make the necessary separation, which the President of the French Republic, Mr Olad himself, admitted from this step. So this division - and New Democracy has been saying it for too long, but it has never been understood by SYRIZA and ANEL - is necessary not today, but yesterday! I hope on 17 December that we do not have any bad development for Greece's presence and participation in Schengen. It will be just as disastrous at both moral and material level as the risk of our economic problems. I would like to say one last word on the much-discussed subject of consensus. What consensus and what? What agreement and who? Two and a half years in previous governance only SYRIZA agreed with us, probably on one issue we all agreed, necessarily we. It was the question of the provision concerning the Roman and his education permits. That is all SYRIZA has found for two and a half years to agree and any other legislative initiative has been negative. I think, therefore, that we are wrongly talking about this issue in this House. Of all the wings of this House, this debate cannot be held with this government, with these ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Karayannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known to everyone that this budget has been formed within crisis management conditions, which come from the past, it has specific causes and known to the entire Greek people. We just happened to get the snake out of the hole! When the Greek economy in times of growth in the years to come produced deficits instead of surpluses, it is impossible to invoke the Kenyan policy to increase state expenditure in the crisis. And that is what those today are aware of a social policy deficit, as they also know that these surpluses are intended, according to Keynes, to cover higher costs in times of crisis. Really, where did the EUR 10 billion of the development laws of the last 20 years go? How did we lead to parasiticism, to the dissolution of primary production, to low-tech investments, to audible agricultural tourism and to sinful development? How did the need for special economic zones (EEZ) in the Peloponnese and Epirus, unlike the European Union, emerged? How did we reach such rates of disinvestment, unemployment, poverty and debt? Questions, of course, and many more have already been answered, but the place also needs self-criticism, an apology. Nevertheless, the 2016 budget on the basis of expenses per Ministry and Decentralised Administration creates the preconditions for stabilisation, productive reconstruction and support for social policy with an emphasis on health and social welfare. It is particularly good that the development of the issue of the benefits of the over-aged uninsured homosexuals is taking place. Support for the agri-food sector, the main pillar of productive reconstruction, will make a significant contribution to the country's level of self-sufficiency in food and will reduce the gap in trade balance. The extroversion of the Greek economy will help innovative businesses and industries with integrated high technology. At the same time, the conditions are being created for a stable, competitive and simplified investment environment aimed at attracting direct foreign investment and developing international cooperation and partnerships. Greece in relation to other countries is problematic according to the investment criteria, based on the risk and reward ratio. The risk remains particularly high for long-term investors. Modernisation of public administration, stable tax, transparency in public procurement, simplification of investment processes and strategies to attract investment will make a significant contribution to changing the country's investment climate. Ladies and gentlemen, the preparation of this budget has rightly been based on conservative assessments due to the procedures of the first assessment and the recapitalisation that are under way, as well as the debate on debt regulation, which will begin after the first assessment on the basis of the new consensus. The successful outcome of these three processes will create accelerating dynamics in the Greek economy and will significantly help the necessary development reforms that have to do with the reorganisation of the public sector and the fight against tax evasion and corruption. The time has come to develop the economic sectors, where it has comparative advantages, so as to be able to stand within this trivial geopolitical environment that surrounds it. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the dream of urban modernisation returns as a government proposal this time of the 21st century, which today has the fate of the country in its hands. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 5th High School of Nea Smyrni. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ms. Big Economics has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's speech is my first speech in plenary. It coincides with a juncture, since this debate is common to be the subject of the most serious debate this year, and it is no other than the budget debate. The budget is the most important tool of the government and its indicators clearly mark a country's economic, fiscal and social policy. So, looking at the 2016 budget, what does anyone see? Nothing but taxes, taxes, taxes! - reductions and cuts in all social benefits, pensions, wages. What you promised was all lies: abolishing the ENVY, reducing the tax rates. You did exactly the opposite of what you promised. You increased VAT on the islands, you put traffic charges on cars that were exempted and much more. And all this in an unbearable economic era, where the fiscal capacity of the Greeks has been exhausted. You closed the banks. You sold them out. There are still the capital controls, which have killed the market and crushed any effort to recover the Greek economy. Of course, no reason in this budget for combating tax evasion. No mention of the outstanding debts, which had been set at EUR 83 billion last year. 2016 will surely be launched at higher heights because of the non-tax capacity above the Greeks, because, as you know, no slaves than they have. In addition, no reference was made to the 2016 budget to offset public debts with those of private individuals. The public may, as we know, owe the individual no problem, while the private person, the taxpayer, when due, is threatened with seizures, even of his pension and salary. Has one of you people thought that indirect taxes still go beyond anticipation? This is the first time that the left-wing government, ladies and gentlemen, continues the social unaltered policy of the other governments. He's just got a difference: Now he's wearing a left badge! What else can I say? The proof is that the unfavourable taxes you have imposed will be 7.2 billion this year. Of course you also have a pillow with the help of which you can impose them, that of the ANELs. You will impose 4.2 billion revenue taxes, 3 billion from social spending cuts. And finally who's gonna pay this account? Of course the Greek people, the Greek taxpayer. Who else? In fact, ladies and gentlemen, you are constantly cutting wages and pensions, taxing the primary sector, our farmers, taxing entrepreneurs, killing all hopes to young entrepreneurs in general. You're generally taxing what's moving, what's breathing. As far as unemployment is concerned, we have reached one and a half million unemployed. We are the fourth country in the high unemployment index. First in deflation. We are the country where its real costs - it must make us feel like this - reach 58% of GDP. Gentlemen of the government, will you finally reduce expenditure and expenditure on the state budget? It's the only solution for the country to survive. Society boils, suffocating, and always pays its own bill. You must put a knife on the social benefits of the ILO insurance funds to save money for the private sector and business. Give incentives to young entrepreneurs. This will stimulate and develop the national economy. There is no need for that in the budget. Plus, it is nice that two funds for employment of the poorest are presented in the budget to have a surplus. In fact, these two funds are the OAED and the Fund for Economic Assistance for the the most deprived. It's really unreasonable in all its magnificence to have these two funds surplus! Since there is a surplus, you can allocate this money to employment. If you don't know what to do, hire technicians, advisers, connect the OAED to market people in the private sector and leave low incomes with benefits. For health? Yes, sir. This is the first time that the left government has continued to reduce the health budget. Is that the social person you've always said and shown up? Hospitals are depriving them of even the most urgent kinds. In fact, the hospitals of the remote areas and the islands are in a tragic state. As for education, no design at primary or secondary level, nor even at tertiary level. You should plan the educational needs per school from the end of last year, so that there are no gaps in schools. Help to keep the entire schools open and not to be abolished, because the entire school, in this difficult time, we are living, are doing a social work, apart from their educational work. They are a breath for working mothers, who have hardly found a job and strive to keep it. For all this, you need to make a targeted action. There must be a return to the primary and secondary schools of all posted officials.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u101	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u102	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Also, to those of our young people who studied abroad who were paid by the Greek taxpayer, they are not given the opportunity to remain in their country, so they are forced to exploit their knowledge and skills abroad. As for the Central Association - since I have no more time to talk -, by closing my speech, I would like to say to you that we as the Central Association will be in the way and give a vision and hope to our young people, we will relaunch, at least give our youth a leading role in order for our economy to make this relaunch. Gentlemen of SYRIZA and ANEL's co-government, we're pounding your bell once more. Our society, understand, slows down. You must make very courageous decisions. With these thoughts, we are telling you that the Centro Association of Centres is of course voting against this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u104	Then, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u105	So let's move on to the next congressman. Mrs Stuboulis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would only be interested in the budget if it were not so outrageous that the efforts of the previous and previous speakers to make minor political gains were not so outrageous, jeopardizing the tragedy of innocent people. Even for national destruction, we have heard, in order to reiterate the saying of Samuel Johnson, recently mentioned by Euclid Tsakalotos, "patriotism, the last refuge for every patron". And he was very kind, because the English translation that I knew uses a much more rawer word. Ladies and gentlemen, on 26-27 November I took part as the envoy of the Greek Parliament in Belgrade in the Council of Parliament coming from the Balkan countries, which organised the Serbian Parliament in cooperation with DCAF, an international organisation based in Switzerland entitled 'Centre for the Democratic Control of the Armed Forces' and on'management of immigration, protection of refugees - not prevent them from entering Europe - and the war against organised crime - and 'organised crime' means what it says: traficking people and species of course, did not mean jihadists, as you would probably - national responses and regional coordination. Do you know how positive the crises of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, the International Immigration Organisation for the management of the refugee wave were by this government, unlike the criticisms and international convictions that the previous government has committed and which do not involve the management of the corresponding European funds, which we have not yet investigated, should we? A few days ago, then, of those who were aspiring to make life inviolable to innocent people, against those who treat them exactly as people with rights worthy of all respect, in accordance with the positions of the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, whom I am tabling as expressed in a bulletin on 20 November. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Aphroditis Stuboulis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Do you know what glory you claim, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition? That representative of Slovenia, who called on the Greek navy "to do his job so that no one passes". Is that what you want? Say in here if you dare: "Put them all." Otherwise let this government respect the Geneva Convention and the UN Declarations. In the budget now: it is indeed a difficult budget, but the last ones to protest are those with the policy of deficits, even in times of growth of the economy, in order to satisfy every customer requirement, have created that problem, for which the medicine they have chosen, the memoranda, has proved worse than the disease. The Greek people have not forgotten who are responsible for the current situation, and that is why they are most trusted with SYRIZA in the last four elections. Four! Not one or two! I shall therefore refer to a part of the budget which we have dealt with very little or nothing, even though it relates to the 'half of the sky', in the budget for the equality policies and actions which the General Secretariat for Gender Equality is responsible for. Direct funding from the state budget of EUR 2,386 000 concerns payroll and operating expenses, and that is where the small reduction of EUR 123 000 has to be attributed compared to 2014. The most important and well-known action, which has been followed up by recent legislative intervention, is to prevent and combat violence against women by operating support structures, i.e. the S.O.S. telephone line, with a number of 15900 consultancy centres and hostel hostels. Co-financed by the European Social Fund either through the Operational Programme for the Reform of the Public Sector or in the structures where there is a partnership of the Local Government Institutions and the National Centre for Social Solidarity, of course, through the OPs with 2,860,000 euros. The upgraded functioning and development of these structures together with the harmonisation of domestic law is a prerequisite for the implementation of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Endogenous Violence, the well-known Istanbul Convention, which Parliament will be invited to ratify once the work of the project team has been completed. Very soon, I hope. Also necessary is the project "Organisation of services for the integration, monitoring and evaluation of equality policies across the range of public action", a equality observatory, i.e. an information system which composes and analyses data in line with the twelve areas of the action programme of the 4th World Conference on Women, held in Beijing in 1995. This equality observatory is funded by the ESRB with EUR 200,000. It is based on these twelve areas of intervention that the Greek Government will be judged by the UN Audit Committee for the implementation of CEDAW, the Treaty on the Elimination of Discrimination in Weights of Women, a committee that will visit us again in March 2017, with the Government of SYRIZA, be sure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a few seconds. It is good that this committee does not do once again the no-concentrating report it made in March 2013 - you know who was a government - which said: "Although the committee that informed us included high-level officials, it had no evidence to give us". The government of SYRIZA will also have evidence and results to give. Ladies and gentlemen, I will of course vote for the budget and should be politically correct and invite you to vote for it too. But I must say, I'm much quieter while you don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs Stuboulis. Mr. Charakopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we are debating is another act at the theater of irrationality, which, in the direction of SYRIZA - ANEL, we have been following for eleven months. It is impossible to describe the ruthlessness and the outraged inconsistency of election reasons and post-elections, but also the reasons for the government majority. I must say that I did not expect to hear the Left Minister relinquish the previous governments because they did not fully implement the Memorandum. I do not know whether Mr Marda's remark was an indirect message to the Minister for Agriculture, who promises that he will not implement a law, whose vote he was in favour of. On the occasion of the recovery from the farmers of the so-called 'Hadjigakis package', let me say, Mr President, that in Greece we are talking a lot, we often talk about things we do not know in depth, thus damaging the public interest. But whatever we say, it's a little bit about what we're living for. It has never been a government MP before to call for a strike and demonstration against the government that they support, against the measures they are voting on. We saw this with SYRIZA too. Perhaps it is astonishing that within two months a government with a fresh mandate and a comfortable parliamentary majority delivers and leaps to the limits of the collapse. This, however, is the fate of demagogues who lie unconsciously. Those who assured the re-evaluation of the thirteenth pension, which promised a minimum wage of EUR 750, committed to the abolition of HPAI, which brought about seismicity and protection of first residence. But once it's time for the truth and every scoundrel to go to his counter! [[At this point the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, takes over the presidential office.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 budget is borne by the criminal irresponsibility of those who have led the country to early elections, to literally throw it on the rocks, to plunge us back into the recession. And so, we are officially returning to fiscal deficits with the government's due obligations to third parties and primarily to health structures to reach EUR 6 billion, increased by nearly 60%. Oper means other measures and other taxes and other sacrifices and other cuts. And all this for what? For the son of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos to shoot down the previous government. Here's the power. You've got it. You misled the citizens. And not only once, but three, even when you signed the memorandum, when you told them that you had the equivalent to replace the tough measures. And of course, you had nothing. Because you never meant what you said. Everything was air talk. And your business, leg jobs. Only communication figures and tacticalisms. In this respect, I confess that you are engaged with amazing flexibility. But at some point the show numbers stock is exhausted. Then the king is naked. I am referring to your agonist effort to keep you in the chairs of power with the incomprehensible institutional meeting of the political leaders under the President of the Republic on insurance. To achieve what? To sign your best wishes for something you've already started? Because pensions are already being cut. Cuts that would not be necessary if the country continued to move at growth rates, as pensions and GDP are in a direct proportion. You have refined every positive perspective and now call on the retired people to pay the bride, those who voted for you, because you presented them with fantastic worlds. As you have misled hundreds of thousands of professionals and workers, who are now taxing them on taxes. Among those who have been properly treated are the farmers, whom you are obviously rewarding, because they gave you the election campaigns the first time. And shoot them relentlessly. Increase the rates of income tax. Remove the refund of excise duty on oil. You're increasing the income tax advance, as are professionals. You take every measure that crushes primary production, for which you are showing a peculiar empathy with milk, for which you have done it indefinitely on the shelf, with the wine that you are taxing, by yourself throughout Europe. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, there is the super scandal with the defection of the banks, with their sale against a lentine billboard, by you, who were electorally speaking about the nationalisation of the banks. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So you are well-known, you, the ultra antimonyist, who would culminate in the memorials at noon and now beg for support, fearing the collapse. And all of this at the expense of the fundamental failure of your policy and the front of immigration. After Grexit's nightmare, we are a hair from the exit, from the persecution and from Schengen, with hundreds of thousands of immigrants trapped in Greece. Why? Because you have been dominated on the basis of your ideas and because you are inadequate and ultimately dangerous for the country. So don't look for any corporations. You won't find any accomplices. Show at least the leafs and don't look elsewhere for lepers. And drink the bitter glass to the end. As you set up, you'll sleep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr Harakopoulos, Member of the New Democracy. Mr Papatheodorou has the floor from the Democratic Compact for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2016 budget shows, both in general terms and in its specific forecasts, the deep crisis in which the country has come from the government's policy pursued, and the lack of any prospects for the future. It is a budget of recession in the economy and greater poverty of the Greek people. The new budget provides for EUR 3.2 billion for additional taxes and EUR 2.5 billion for expenditure, mainly on insurance. The budget figures confirm the country's return to the recession, the increase in public debt and primary government deficits, the uncertainty and the continuous cut in the citizens' available incomes. This is therefore an undevelopmental, inefficient, economic and socially unfair budget. The recapitalisation of the banks and the emergence of improved indicators in relation to the forecasts of the Greek economy are of no value to the citizens, because they will continue to have new tax raid measures, wage and pension reductions provided for by both the prerequisites and the draft budget of 2016. In addition, EUR 3.2 billion will be called upon to pay taxpayers by increasing the taxation of legal persons, free traders and farmers, increasing rates of taxation for rents, maintaining the HISA. Instead of seeking to get out of the crisis or to overcome at least the crisis, through structural changes in taxation, but also in public administration, cut costs, privatization, alleviating burdens for businesses, the government is resorting to an extensive tax raid, without at the same time being able to meet the objectives for which it has committed itself in the memorandum it signed. According to the budget, from EUR 5.7 billion of new interventions EUR 2.5 billion will come from the spending side, while EUR 3.2 billion will come from the revenue side. More specifically, as far as expenditure is concerned, the burden of the cuts on most of it falls on the weak social and economic groups of the population, showing for the most part the current situation created by the SYRIZA government for the Greek citizen. After the collapse of the middle-class, the redistribution of burdens is now made by the poor to the poorest, as a result of the supposedly cruel and yet invincible and disastrous negotiation. On the budgetary revenue side, it is argued that there will be an increase in revenue of EUR 3 billion. This increase from where will it come from? In particular, it will come from the unreasonable taxation on companies and traders, with only a concern to present equivalent sizes to lenders, sizes and ways of collecting tax forbidding, even for investment and imminent development in the country. But let us see what is happening in particular areas, at least those to whom I have the responsibility for monitoring. In the field of public order and civil protection, the Government is confined to general references, on expenditure intended for the operational activities of the Security Councils, without the prioritisation and assessment of the needs for the technological upgrading of the mechanisms for dealing with crime. There is no reference in the budget to expenditure on training and continuing training of staff, to know-how, to recruitment of skilled and trained operational and scientific staff, which is now deemed necessary in order to meet the current needs of forms of crime. When international terrorism creates hundreds of victims in Europe, by the Greek Government there is no provision for strengthening the respective police forces in Greece. There is also no provision for any expenditure on technical support, as well as for the maintenance and supply of vehicles and equipment. In this context, the Government neither invests nor adequately maintains the conditions for safeguarding the social good of public security at a time when its protection is a major risk. In the field of immigration policy and refugee policy, you are constantly walking from defeat to defeat, bringing the country out of ideology and dangerous amateurism in terms of the functioning of the European Union's mechanisms. You are marching towards isolation and weakening the country towards the partners. The policy of the Prime Minister and the government is not just wrong, it is disastrous, because it may have been unaware by the government and Prime Minister of what happened in Paris on 13 November and how rapid the change of European policy is now. That is why you were forced to give up yesterday, losing to our country even what you could have ensured in cooperation with the European Union. At noon the Minister refused the request for civil protection to the European Union and accepted this afternoon. In the morning, he said 'no to FRONTEX', as the government has been doing for months and at night was forced to fold. It is not a serious and responsible approach to this, and the Greek people now understand that very well. We have now come to the point that the European Union is hitting the risk of getting out of the Schengen Agreement because of failure to comply with the government-agreements and the government at first instance to ignore the political and economic consequences and, secondly, to drag - with external intervention - into compulsory implementation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President. We have told you before: The policy you are pursuing in the refugee field in relation to the European Union and FRONTEX is incorrect, dangerous and harmful to national interests. We have some questions. While the government had to complete the creation of the five hot spots, for which it has committed itself, it has so far not even described this structure in legislation. It hardly completes the first in Mytilini and remains naive to how to fund them. Is there any provision for non-asylum asylum seekers and temporary hospitality centres which are not part of European funding? None of this. But what matters is this: you have brought to the National Representation a subordinate budget, which will not only accumulate new unbearable burdens on the Greek people, but is obviously inapplicable. We vote against it, but you and your policies are on a dead end. The problem is, you're not entitled to drag the country into this catastrophe, into this dead end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u111	Thank you Mr Papatheodorou, Member of the Democratic Alliance. Mrs Alexandra Papagiga, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor. Madam President, you have the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u112	Gentlemen of the Government, the sympathy with you for the tragedy of refugees and migrants, for the violations of the rights of minorities cannot be washed away, the laundry cannot be done and the alibi for the great willingness you show, once again, to take even more active part and role in the imperialist wars currently taking place and the new escalation that seems to come with the concentration of troops competing with the capitalist states - imperialist forces in the Syrian region. Of course, this is a preparatory sin for you. In the forms of SYRIZA has had since the 1990s, there has been no war that has been unleashed, in which you do not take a double-faced position. You have adopted all the pretexts of the attacking forces, but you have asked for the legitimacy of the wars to exist, for there to be a decision by the United Nations Security Council, saying and we do not know what decisions the Security Council makes, say and do not know that the UN Security Council has decided that war can be waged by naval forces or by NATO as a whole, without the prior approval of the Security Council, you say and you do not know NATO's decision to use non-conventional armed forces, payrolls and especially the widowed Al-Qaeda groups in various interventions prepared politically and carried out. Now, as a government, you're one-faced. And I am sure that the debate that is taking place at the moment with Mr Kerry hides the new drama of the Cyprus problem and, of course, promises to participate in the imperialist war that is taking place in the region, which is not the case for freedom and democracy. It is not about democracy in the region and about the jihadists and so on. - this is part of the overall effort - but it is done to finalise the new sharing of the Middle East and Africa, particularly North Africa, which are regions - a wider region - where there are old and new sources of gas and oil and are transport, network and general communications hubs. And from this point of view, you are literally criminal. And now you're not asking for anything from the House. Of course, Mr Kotzias, the Foreign Minister, who is very relevant to these issues, compared to the Prime Minister's partial irrelevance, said yesterday, from what we saw in the publications, that the war and the attack on Syria, not from NATO but from NATO, should take place yesterday. That's the pretext. First we asked the UN and now we say it is not NATO, because NATO has no good name, but it must be done by NATO Member States. In other words, you still want to dress up Greece's involvement and the dangers that the Greek people will live in the medium term, with a faculty. Can you tell us the following thing: 'Well, are you communists ignorant of the danger arising from the jihadists' barbarity? Are you ignoring such existential dangers and where they may grow up? We have no objections to that. We were never with the Mujahedines, nor with the fanatical Muslim brothers, nor with the Taliban, nor with Al-Qaida. Alas! However, would these organizations be of such a mass nature if they were not supported by specific imperialist forces, including the United States of America, Britain and France, and by the local Arab reactive regimes? Could they take such a massive character? Some may have been born spontaneously. We have no objections. Some of them have been created. There's been some invasion. Could they take such a massive character? No way. And from this point of view, I will remind you of history. When was the first split in the region between Britain and France? Before and shortly after World War I. And it is no accident now which forces are leading the wars. France took Syria and Lebanon as a protector at the time. Britain took the lion's share and controlled the rich oil deposits of the Gulf through Kuwait - Iraq and later through the regions that said they belong to the Palestinians - of course - and Jordan. Britain used Islamic religion in Egypt and the Muslim brothers, who were founded in 1928 and from there, and their most fanatical department, were sponsored and made with the wishes of France. You'll tell me we're in 2015. Well, no, these things are very important. Because after 1991 we entered for the new split. The Socialist system left the middle, which, if you like, was a fighting factor for peace, as much as it could, because it was not the dominant system worldwide. If you would like, it illustrated to some extent its effect on the Helsinki Agreement on the non-change of postwar borders after World War II. There was a lever of reaction, which, when it was overturned, you applauded, because then we entered the highway of "democracy" and "peace". Well, the New Democracy applauded it. - What would he do? - and PASOK. But you, too, applauded the old shape. You didn't even have the smell - and you didn't want to get it - what that would mean. But then, in 1991, other forces entered for sharing in the course: Russia, China. But the Arab protectors also ceased to be Arabic protectors and became states normally, powerful and, of course, reactionary states. When did the bases of the jihadists come in? A few years after the imperialist invasion of 2003 in Iraq, which took place on the pretext of overthrowing the then President Saddam Hussein, a former US ally during the 1980s, when he raved the communists and murdered them officially and informally. Without the invasion of the US and its allies in Iraq, jihadists could not be created - with forgiveness - in terms of fantasy. Of course, units, teams, such fences would exist. But that kind of force, with organized army and missiles? Has the US invasiond Iraq opened or did it not open the Al-Qaeda gates, which of course came from Afghanistan and Saudi Arabia? The withdrawal of US troops from Iraq from 2007 to 2011 enabled Iraq's non-existent Al-Qaida to gain powers. In the spring of 2011, the USA and NATO, other than Germany - now Germany into the evils enters with an army - and with the leading France - we mean the French Government, we do not mean the French people, it is understood, and when we talk about the US we do not mean the American people, it is understood - they have used the fanatical Islamic mercenaries who trained American and Western secret services, particularly from Saudi Arabia and Qatar, in order to redistribute the table of the Libyan oil and gas fields and while Gaddafi, who was their ally, started to cancel some of these agreements and look to Brazil and China. Islamist mercenaries trained with US funds take action in West African Mali, occupying in early 2012 parts of the north and central part of the country, in collaboration with local Islamists and separatists - if I remember correctly, kararegs told them - by giving France the pretext to carry out a military operation in December 2012. The mercenary powers themselves are working in Central African democracy, strengthening the jihadists of the Seleko organisation - if I say it well - to keep the sources of oil that China claims. The Government of Obama in April 2013 commands the CIA, in cooperation with US defence industry monopolies and the secret services of Israeli, Turkish, Saudi, Catarians and certain European state forces or para-states, to train and equip with hundreds of millions of dollars the Baghdadists who had him imprisoned and then took him into their hands. In February 2014, the Islamic State of Iraq and Levante is officially created. So we say this now. Greece is now a clear vineyard, not only with the classic Souda base but from north to south has become a country that facilitates the war. Is that going to benefit the Greek people? You are haggling for some investments - it has exchanges - to be made in Greece, from which a handful of capitalists will benefit, not even all the capitalists as a whole. I'll remind you of the following thing. We're saying the chapter doesn't have a home. The peoples have a home, and they cannot be indifferent, of course, as can the Greeks, neither for territorial integrity nor for the borders nor for the violations that Turkey is making in the Aegean Sea nor for anything. But I will remind you of this. Historically - and I do not imagine, but I would hope that, when Mr Philis changed his books in the schools, he would also include that truth - when the Hydraian big-cavours had their ships in the fight of 1821, when this struggle ended, and the young highly indebted Greek urban state was created, they rose up armedly and asked for compensation, because they had losses on their ships. Did it happen or didn't it happen? This is not written in the books. The Greek caravans! So, then, another is the country, with the forgiveness of the capitalists, and another is the country of the peoples.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u113	Unprofitable.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u114	Of course not. They rose up armed to the first Greek government and demanded compensation. When this happened in 1821, you understand that in 2015, the conflict is about the richness created by the people and exists on the ground or underwater in the states, the allies between them in NATO are violating, say, Turkey the air and the territorial waters, etc. Greece either beats each other or the alliances between them change. You understand, in other words, that the Greek people cannot support the Government's decisions on the war against terrorism. The flag of the people to defend the country, as we understand it, of the borders, as they are engraved, of territorial integrity, must be not only a flag of struggle against the external enemy but also against the internal enemy that exists in our country and in every country. Isn't there an inner enemy in Syria? We, when we say 'no war in Syria', are we with the Syrian regime? The people must fight the internal and external enemy together. Otherwise, peace will be an inappropriate dream as long as war is done to distribute prey. Greece is taking part in the distribution of the prey. He may be a second brother, he may be the poorest relative in the distribution of the prey, but he takes. And here the Prime Minister is 'yes' to everything. So it is not just the Memorandum Policy in Greece and what is being followed. It is a single question of internal and foreign policy. The Greek people cannot connect their fate and improve their lives to the participation of Greece in NATO, to the imperialist wars, to the soldiers and to all that is now being done on the pretext of terrorism. The people and Syria - and others - can also defeat the jihadists and everyone if it is clear who is the enemy inside and who is the outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u115	Thank you to President Pappiga. There will now be an announcement from the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, for reasons of formality and substance, because the budget debate is evolving, I inform the House that a moment ago the Governor of the Bank of Greece gave me the relevant interim report from the Bank of Greece and the relevant communications were made with his assessments. Be aware of this, so that by tomorrow the debate will develop is something to which everyone will be able to refer, as will estimates or data in this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u117	We shall proceed, ladies and gentlemen. The reason for this is the Deputy Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mrs. Anagnostopoulou for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I will not be tempted, although I would very much like to have a dialogue with Mrs Papayannakis, because she has said interesting things and I am very interested in them anyway. It's not the moment. I hope another chance. Nor, of course, do I want to be tempted to comment on what has been said by both the representative of the New Democracy and the Democratic Alliance. What I can see, however, is that after you have fully played the Grexit project, now starts the other project, the 'S - exit'. Hypocrisy has no limits. We must once in this Chamber have a debate about how we mean this Europe, when we are looting, dogs - apologise for the formalities, no better - so that we don't leave Europe, don't leave it, don't leave it. This is Europe right now. It's her, there's no one else. Either resist it or we stop playing the easy rebels. Anyway. The 2016 budget condensates precisely all these adventures that Greek society has experienced for five years in an environment - I mean the European environment - with the ideological and political elements it has. So this is a budget that has been set up under war or about war, such as the ones we live in, where apart from the prolonged economic crisis, we also have a crisis whose tip of the iceberg is the refugee. The issue with this budget is to see what weapons the government prefers, which will enable, on the one hand, society to fight survival and, on the other hand, to protect and reproduce in these difficult times its democratic institutions, these institutions that will allow this battle for survival to take place in a different future. I said at the beginning, and I will not stop saying that the 2016 budget is a war budget in the sense that I have given above. So, first of all, it sets up the mechanisms for establishing a wartime survival economy, which, however, resets the bases for the country to get out of these folklore options and not to be found on the brink of destruction, as found due to other policies before 2010. Once in this House we must also talk about these policies. Secondly, this budget is trying to re-establish the institutions and areas for the reproduction of democracy, a prerequisite for survival and for redefining the future of this society. These two aspects, the'survival economy' and 'democracy', at times of crisis, find their response, in the broad and narrow sense, to education. I would like to make it clear that the 2016 budget in terms of education - and I am not hiding my words at all - is a difficult budget, as it has been in previous years, particularly difficult with regard to higher education, which is my responsibility. So while the budget remains stable about primary and secondary - it is increased in some cases and very much, as in the introductory examinations, it increases the budget for the General Secretariat of Research and Technology, particularly for the purpose of covering the salaries of researchers, so as to stop bleeding from abroad - but the same is not the case with higher education, which we have this year's reduction of 20%. It does not, of course, reduce either EUR 1 in the budget for student care, food, housing, travel, etc. Students. This reduction in the budget for higher education does not in any way mean that the government is putting less weight on the higher than on the other levels. In fact, having a full awareness of the sub-financing of the higher institutions and of their commitment - in recent years no appointment has been made, and a lot of people have retired from the EIOs -, the government has already put in place a parallel programme that will be strengthened in 2016. For the first time, therefore, not only have there been no redundancies or have not been made available, as was usually the case in recent years, which has burdened the already large subsidization of HEIs on the contrary, we have had the recruitment of about two hundred people, teaching staff and laboratory scientific staff, for universities and TEIs. With these recruitments, the appointments, not only were the immediate needs of the HEIs met, but at the same time, the end came into a huge injustice against scientists who were still running away from 2009. In this context, the appointment of some fifty LAG members whose election has been completed and the verification of the legality of their election has also been initiated. On the other hand, the process of appointment of the non-determined administrative staff who had successfully passed the AACC was initiated and expected to be appointed from 2008 to 2009. On this occasion, I would like to remind you that the solution to the chronic problem of the administrative staff of the Greek Open University, who have been in peculiar hospitality, is under way for so many years, without a provision for permanent recruitment of staff, which covers the well-established needs of the university. In the same way, the solution of the hostage of officials from other institutions or research centres is under way. However, the question of the ageing character of the AEIs - one in four universities is over sixty years old - is not solved by the above appointments. I mentioned them to show that the parallel programme of the government has been placed on the table right here in this sluggishness. We are already in contact with the relevant ministers, in order to ensure the proclamation of membership for 2016, while the NSRF has provided the funding for three-year scholarships for doctors, postdoctors and postgraduate students. This is a measure to stop the flow out. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] Of course, there are irreversible operating costs of the HEIs that their underfunding does not facilitate the treatment of these issues, such as PPC. On this subject we have come to a discussion with PPC. We are in contact with the President of PPC, who has really understood the importance of the problem and has promised us that in the next few days we will have proposals directly from PPC, such as a reduced invoice or what she considers to be facilitating PPC itself. At the same time, we are in contact with the European Investment Bank, the financing of institutions' infrastructures and student care. In closing with this part of the economic survival of the HEIs, I would not like to omit the enormous effort made and made by the Ministry of Education to drastically reduce the bureaucracy and the financial exhaustion of the students, with a measure that was taken to onlineise the student's data with the entire bureaucratic universe - order, hierarchy, what they need to do to make transcripts, etc. - so we don't have to run. Already this year, the electronic pre-registration of students relieved them of the suffering of going from their town to their studies for one to two days to register. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, you will allow me to take my dentistry as I will not speak again. Apart from this, however, the HEIs are the most important place for the reproduction of democracy, democratic and participatory character not only of the foundations themselves but of the entire public space. We are, of course, constantly talking about linking the institutions to production as the propulsion lever for growth, etc. Good. That's right. Rarely, however, we are now talking about the HEIs as the area in which it has been historically built - and it is so topical today - the tripartite part of democracy in our country and not only in our country but in almost all of Europe and not just in Europe, namely the three-fold 'bread - education - freedom'. Although HEIs, thanks to the patriotism of their staff, maintain their high scientific level, their role is systematically undermined and in terms of their democratic function in the broader concept of the term. I am not going to talk about the changes that have been made to the administrative system of HEIs with the famous n. 4009/2011, which has become a sacred cow, a system which it had, has and continues to aim - I am not saying intentionally, anyway - the undermining of the concepts 'public, participatory, democratic university'. I hope that another opportunity will be able to speak thoroughly about this. But I will talk about this rabies and targeted attack you are launching against the government for any change that it tries to make in terms of education. We've lived in Baltas, we're living now. This attack is a deep ideological one. That's why it's rabies and it's spread over many levels. I am one of those who can be proud that I have never spoken in this Chamber either in writing or in the public speech about 'German giraffes', 'national traitors' and anything like that. I believe - and I still think - that political life must be carried out in political and ideological terms rather than in terms of national attitudes. However, the sovereign class of this country, which has a large part of the Opposition, has always spoken and spoken on such terms, and even when it is denouncing by the people either the national ideas or the European modernisation - both of them play - indifferently, in the second case of European modernisation and European friendly ideological forces - if this undermines the freedom of a people who has chosen another government, with another ideology and another strategy. We have seen in this Chamber that we have reached this point in this House that politicians deal with the work of scientists and target them as national traitors. Science, that is, must obey the requirements of political power. Otherwise, I like the fact that v. 4009/2011 dismantles the HEIs! On the other hand, we come in here and say that if we don't like what a scientist says, let's fire the other way, because he's a national traitor. It is some of the aspects of a hypocrisy that should once be analysed here. On the other hand, we have a reason to wake up in most cases a post-election, deep anti-left climate and on the other hand we have another wing that plays the guarantor of the country's Europeanity. We have, on the one hand, people who in Europe are stumbled to curb any attempt at changes in education - not just n. 4009/2011 but also in national dialogue - and on the other hand, we have inside the country 'falcons' that speak of leaving education from Phil, by me and by doing coordinated personal attacks and thus contributing to the awakening of a vulgar fascism that tends to gain ground not only in the country but also in Europe. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing.]] I am not going to say now what we are living with all this, such as saying that scientists - those who don't like it, of course - are certain that sit in their offices and we should not listen to them, and thankfully we do not listen to them. These were heard here beyond the Democratic Assent and no one got up to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u119	But please complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u120	Yes, Mr. President. I will, however, say about the efforts that are being made to lose the HEIs this promotional role they have in society as a pretext for democracy. And only the pre-selectoral selection with v. 4009/2011 - which, fortunately, we abolished these responsibilities from the institution's board - in terms of whether they like or do not like their ideology in the institution's board, should at least be those of us in here who belong to the university community to make us ashamed.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u121	Please finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u122	I'm closing, Mr. President. I won't say anything else. But I want to say one thing. There's been too much. We're trying to set up this parallel program. National dialogue is a means of this parallel programme and of the perspective of what education we want, so what a future we want. I connected the economic survival for democracy. I'll close if the president doesn't let me talk anymore. He's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u123	Twice the time you took.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u124	You've been talking for sixteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u125	Yeah, he's right. He's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u126	You've exhausted all our tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u127	I will say something that a French university friend told me: 'We did not resist the changes in universities, we did not resist the lack of neoliberalism, we did not resist the collapse of the Middle East, now we are crying'. It means linking the HEIs with public policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u128	Thank you to the Deputy Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, she has asked to take her second language as well. So he had a tolerance of two and a half minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theatres of the Parliament, since they participated in the educational programme "1974: The restoration of democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-six students and students and two educational escorts from the American college. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Ioannis Vroutzis now has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u129	Mr. President, when am I supposed to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Carras, then you, for reasons of parliamentary order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, always as a small parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u132	I hope and hope that the other House will make things better. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u133	Ladies and gentlemen, as we discuss the budget, political topicality runs. This morning I had the pleasure and honour of hearing Mrs Gerovas, the Government Representative, who actually expresses the government as a whole, positioned and spoken on two important, major issues. The first was to do with the moral dimension of the Left, which has essentially reiterated what emerged yesterday in the most heavy and substantial way, that there is a serious issue somewhere where you had a Minister of Government, not only, but also with other ministers in time who are still unresolved. Mrs Gerovasili, representing the SYRIZA and the ANELs, said: 'No problem, because we are left-wing, and why the matter is being investigated'. Listen up! And I'm addressing the government. Should we agree that if it is a government minister or anyone who is in research, and there is no evidence that we should not magnify the matter? We'll agree. We in the New Democracy always act responsibly. But is that the moral dimension of the Left, ladies and gentlemen? Did you make the same election as the former Prime Minister of the country, who had nothing against him as an indication, just his description and name on the Lagard list, and did you make it a election spot? Is that the moral dimension of the Left? Be sure that this moral dimension and the moral advantage of the Left will soon become a moral disadvantage. You should know that, ladies and gentlemen of the government, because one mistake comes after the other, from appointments of relatives to ministerial offices, from opacity to government actions and actions, at the top of yesterday's issue of the Minister to whom I am referring, Mr Stathakis. The second issue was about the infamous statement by Mrs Gerovas, which insults the intelligence of the Greek people, which said: "We have not reduced the pensions of the Greeks and we are not going to reduce them." If this doesn't cause anger, and it's not the definition of shame, what is it? Do you know that in August you reduced Greek pensions horizontally, 2% of the main and 6% of the subsidiary? The subsidiary was the first time, and even you had the courage to baptize them as being in favor of health! As has been demonstrated by a question I asked the Minister responsible, not 1 euro, to hear about the pensioners, the Greeks who are following us, listening to the christenings of the pension cuts that have already been made - not even 1 euros did not go to hospitals and to EEA. Rejoice with SYRIZA and your courage! In addition, yesterday Mr Katrugalos, Minister for Labour and Social Security, presented to the Committee, the Economic and Social Committee, the draft of the so-called insurance reform. To look into the eyes, Prime Ministers of Government, for a while and to tell what the truth is. In practice, this is not about reform, it is about a pension-reduction mechanism that comes and baptises it as a'reform' to hide, because of a lack of courage or because of the fear of political costs, pension reductions. That's what you're doing. It is the definition of the nerve that you have had a flammine of two and a half years, the reform. Because it was really reform, structural change in supplementary pensions, the zero deficit clause, which ensures, in the absence of any further deficits, that the next generations will be retired and that no one will pay for the supplementary pension of the other. Because that is the structure and statute of supplementary pensions. It is the contribution of only a worker and an employer. It has no involvement of the state. You baptized this yesterday when Mr Katrugalou's plans were tabled's sustainability clauses'. To listen to your hypocrisy and your courage to mock him in the face! You're saying you won't reduce pensions. I would therefore inform you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, Members, that I do not know what they are telling you in the parliamentary group - that in this budget we are voting already on from the budget texts, it is reduced for each Greek pensioner in mid-term. How? If we sum up the reduction of expenditure due to pensions in 2016, a sum of EUR 1,838 billion comes. And if we accumulate the remaining 800 million of the remaining sum to abolish the CSR, we will go to EUR 2,618 billion. Let us take as a given the elements of the 'ELIOS' which we have. It's June's last. You know, "ELIOS" is this form that he first revealed - innovation for our country - how many pensions and how many pensions we have, which defeated the "monkey" pensions. And Mr. Katrugalos stopped presenting it! The transparency of the Left! It is therefore clear that about every month the cost of pensions is EUR 2.3 billion. In making this simple correlation, it seems that the pension cuts for each Greek pensioner in this budget are 1,1 pensions, without computing two things: the revenue effects of VAT and the unknown tails you have predicted, the unaltered expenditure that you have provided in the budget for pension reductions. But we'll see about that. Estimates say, however, that another pension is lost due to income effects of increased taxation on all Greeks. Let's go a little bit now to the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed the first budget on the Left, a budget in which it is now reflected in all honesty, cannot be concealed, that: Firstly, the 5.7 billion unnecessarily measures on taxes and pension cuts appear for all Greek citizens, who were unnecessarily and did not need and are essentially the price of the populism and demagoguery of SYRIZA and ANEL, because of their unresolved policy, because of their demagogueration, because of all this nightmare decade that we have lived in, the creative ambiguity of Varoufakis, and all that we are living in today. Secondly, it is a budget that brings about sacrifices to the Greek people, new sacrifices, as it neutralized the shortest of previous sacrifices. But these are unthinkable sacrifices - and that is the real difference - sacrifices without hope and unnecessary reductions in pensions and an increase in taxes. Question: Why do you not, for example, talk about VAT on the Aegean islands? I wonder how SYRIZA's colleagues are going to vote for such a budget that abolishes this great advantage brought by Constantine Karamanlis in our home country, in return for the disadvantage of our islands. How are SYRIZA and ANEL colleagues going to vote for it and then go to the islands to act as pros and to be sensitive to the islands? So that's the divine gift for the islanders, SYRIZA, that is, Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos, in the troika, gave it a gift box, which we had never done. How is it possible to accept an increase in taxation for farmers when this did not have to be done? How can we accept pension cuts and increased taxation on businesses and all that has to do with the social state, whose resources you are actually reducing? We all call them 'necessary'. Why? Because it's unnecessarily. And the Greek people see us, the unemployed, the workers, the pensioners and the entrepreneurs see us. Because it's unpleasant! Why? Just because nothing of what you bring from December 2014 to today as reductions and a burden to the Greek people and to the pocket of each household, it was not necessary to do that. For example, what each taxpayer, retired, unemployed, worker, entrepreneur, receives in his pocket today through the budget is the result of all these inefficient policies of yours. These ineffective policies led you, for example, to converting the growth of plus 0.7% into a recession minus 0.7% in 2016 and with undeniably the 0% you have for 2015, as ELSTAT changed in the third quarter. It is also about the fact that the surpluses we made with the sacrifices of the Greek people in 2013 and 2014 again have been made! That's what we pay! We are also dealing with unemployment, for which - take note of it, colleagues of the SYRIZA! - No one burns that there's a magic wand. However, we had conducted policies with which unemployment was decreasing. In the macro-economic case that I had agreed with the European Commission and the troika at the time - now institutions - at national accounting level, unemployment at the end of 2016 would be 19.5%. That would be it! Today in the budget is 25.4%! That means a gap, a five-point opening! What does that mean? With the most conservative approach of forty thousand unemployed per unit of unemployment, it means two hundred and thousands of lost jobs! Here's the money for social security! That's why there's unemployment, that's why you're cutting off pensions. As far as undeclared work is concerned, I received it at 30%...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u134	How many millions was it? (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u135	Don't make any speech, Mr. Comrade, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u136	...I delivered it in December 2014 to 12.3% and today it has been launched at 25.5%! The Prime Minister himself said so from here. That's what we're paying today. Your ineffectiveness and that you put your hands down and just entered an automatic pilot. You didn't do anything! We also pay what I said before, your announcements and your verbalisms, because it would be very easy for someone to join the view "good, to see a little and what this government did and what they promised." I'm not going to go talk about the third pension, HISPIA and the rest, but about the equivalents. So I come to the equivalents. I listened to and listened to the laughing Minister, Mr Alexiadis, who is taxing and laughing - to say that the equivalents, the parallel programme, which is the inclusion of the vote in the September elections, have to do with three fundamental axes, for which the SYRIZA Government next day would find the money for the equivalent programme, the parallel programme, the equivalents. First, the Lagard list, second, smuggling, third, tax evasion. Tell me where in the budget there's money from this. Nowhere! This is a definition of the deception of Greek citizens! This is deception, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. And instead, you brought in an arrangement, the famous setting of the hundred doses, the 100-dose fiasco, with which you trapped hundreds of thousands of Greeks, natural persons, in an endless process. Today they leave by hundreds, because you changed the arrangement seven times! And finally I only got the answer from the Treasury. As far as the majestics are concerned for over EUR 1 million - which the New Democracy did not put in - you gave me an answer how many of them were and how much money they were given. You have rejoiced, deleted from the debts of the big timers 188 million euros! Rejoice your Government! That's what the unemployed, the workers, listen to them! I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And along with that on page 109 of the budget, for the first time - this has no precedent! - Looks like the O.R.D. surplus. It's 504m euros. You turned the OAED - supposedly - into a speculative company. But the goal of the OAED is to have zero remnant! You are treating the 504m euros - under the invention of the highest interest rate of the Bank of Greece - it is unknown where they go and you do not make unemployment programmes for people in need! That's the ones you're in SYRIZA! Appraisal and judge your ministers, because the OAU's EUR 504 million appear to be a surplus while it should be zero. Ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate and believe that this budget can be tabled by this government but the other 2017 budget will not be tabled by the same government. And I am not saying this in the sense of the government pressure that will be exerted all the time here, but because I very simply believe that this whole wave of indignation - which you reaped and did tsunami, poisoning society against the previous government - will turn into an adversary, because you did not appreciate the fare and drown you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u137	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Ioannis Vroutzis. For twelve minutes, the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres Mr George Karras has spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. I have to say this. Mr. Balafa, excuse me, I don't know exactly what responsibilities you have in the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u139	I'll tell you later!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u140	Okay. Because I don't see economic ministers. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u141	I certainly have great patience to hear what is said!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u142	I don't have anything with you guys. The quality of the...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u143	Elections took place two months ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u144	I don't speak in election, and don't take it elsewhere! I ask where the finance ministers are in this Chamber when we are talking about a budget. That's what I'm asking, and you're not answering me!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u145	The Greeks are not misled...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u146	Let it go! Are you a Minister of Finance, yes or no? That's my question! You are not, then, Minister of Finance. We are therefore talking before the government's empty seats on the financial staff. And I'm coming back. We have a budget. So Mr Tsakalotos comes to the introduction and tells us that we have three axes, which if they are paid and fulfilled, will lead to a take-off of the Greek economy. Who are they? The evaluation expected. The evaluation of the programme, therefore, means that new measures are expected. Because everywhere, any newspaper we open, any television, any site, any radio, is talking about the remaining, delaying prerequisites to close the 1 billion-dollar. We are therefore waiting for measures! The second axis of the Ministry of Finance to take off the economy is the recapitalisation of the banks. They're telling us that we're done, but they're not telling us the details. They're not telling us that the recapitalisation of banks with two minutes' share of systemic banks has been completed. You know, gentlemen, that's how sold to foreign funds! Today, in order for these shares to have a minimum position, they combine every 15 minutes to give a nominal value of 0.30 cents. The buyers were the so-called "dollars". They say foreign investors are here. They were the distress funds, the hedge funds, which seek short-term profits from the introduction of these shares into the stock market. And then remember the expression of Homer, "host of abstinence" to investors! So we'll go back to the same spot, gentlemen! Because the Central Banks Union has said that two very serious arrangements should have been followed before. The'red' loans for the highly indebted households, for which the law was adopted the day before yesterday - and we voted for it - should have been finalised, but we do not expect anything in short time, in view of the judicial procedure it introduces, such as going to the pacifist courts, finding the staff and transferring the cleaners of Mr Katrugalos to justice as secretaries and all that. We will continue to have families in hostage, whose overcharge is due to the bad New Democracy policy, which had the opportunity both in 2012 and in 2013 and in 2014, recapitalising the banks, regulating this issue, so that the households with debts, which are virtually non-existent, are not yet charged, because property prices have been reduced and banks have been recapitalised three times to 50 billion of the Greek people. However, families remain debtors. In other words, we have 'on two' the profit within the banks. Let's go to the next one. Business loans. Are business loans regulated? How will business loans be regulated? Is there going to be an internal regulation through the banks? I'm afraid they can't. Is it going to be Bad Banks? Nor did we hear that if subsidiaries of the systemic banks are to be set up to manage these loans. Will it be what sounds strongly on the market, which has created a panic, which has suspended all economic activities, that, in other words, they will be sold to foreign funds at 5% of the price of the loan, i.e. 5 cents per euro, and then, in the sense of resolution, the companies will then break their tracks out to make short-term profits? Again, let us remember the expression of Homer, that these funds were due abroad and good milking. These things are not solved, gentlemen. So Mr Tsakalotos tells us in his introduction to the budget that by resolving the assessment and resolving the recapitalisation of the banks, he will achieve what? It will succeed in reducing the debt. It does not, however, tell us that these two very serious conditions for debt reduction can be guaranteed by the current government, that they will be successful. There has been a lot of discussion in the last two months, however much Mr Balafas complains that we have been talking about the same issues for two months, if I understood your spirit, Mr Balafas. No matter how much he says that, they've been discussed, they've been discussed before but nothing has happened! I would therefore like to speed up some of the points in the budget, without wishing to refer to numbers or comparisons of previous years or forecasts. They have been exhausted by colleagues in this debate. I think I'm gonna be tired. We're too few - good time - today. Not to say more, then. It accepts the draft budget which has so far been negative. It says it on page sixteen. It accepts that employment and unemployment cannot be tackled. She accepts that. And he accepts it in combination with what? That the word 'increase' meets it on every page of the budget. Increase in direct taxes, increase in indirect taxes, increase in inputs, etc. But I do not see the word'reduction' anywhere. On the contrary, I see the word'reduction' in expenditure, in the Public Investment Programme, in the input expected from other sources from third parties. So I do not see the word'reduction', I see the word 'increase'. So do we lead to a balanced or non-balanced budget? He can't be even. So let's go to the next one. Insurance reform: Is it a reform to reduce pensions? Is it a reform of the insurance system to cut ancillarys? Is it a reform that sounds like you're bringing back under another name, the zero AS deficit? There will be an elegant name - we will also hear that - and we will accept it at the end, because it will risk that there will be no pension or subsidiary at all. And then, at a next point, the budget comes and tells us that it guarantees social security and the minimum guaranteed income. I will say something here: if a state cannot guarantee these two elements, then there can be no state, there can be no social cohesion, there can be no social fabric. As long as we successfully show that there will be the minimum guaranteed income, even with this coliform, the deficit budget, it is the state's failure. The Greek citizen did not need a minimum guaranteed income along the route of the Greek state. The Greek citizen is proud, he had his activities, had his property, he was a housewife. So you've brought him both parties - and New Democracy and SYRIZA over the last year - to depend - on the charity of the state. Is that what we're telling him? We tell him that there is charity and therefore you can survive satisfactorily, why is the government good? But there are two issues that are next. I have seen nothing about what will start the country, about what the country needs, about what the country has lived for. I have already heard from Mrs Papayannakis, who spoke about Hydra's caravans. Even in the way of the benefits they achieved after liberation, they reached the revolution at one point and there was a country. Shipping. Greek shipping. I read the part of the budget for the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy. He's got a lot of actions. He's got nice actions. He'll be able to move in the Aegean, check the influx, do, rupture. However, I see a reduction in the financial aspect, which, perhaps, I am not in a position to make the calculation at this time, may be at 30% in relation to the appropriations allocated last year. If we wait, then, ladies and gentlemen, with the cut in the maritime ministry's programme, the influxes from Europe, I fear that Turkey has taken them to deal with the refugee problem. I'm afraid Turkey took them! Think, ladies and gentlemen, what this may mean and what consequences it may have. Shipping is a special part of Greece, which, unfortunately, in this budget, I do not see how to deal with development. In fact, I see in the market a move out not only of the shipping companies from Piraeus, which is their base but also of the maritime offices, those who, by constitutional provision - the known n.86 - had rights and had provision for tax exemptions operating in Greece, but not productively. We have a way out of this, too. Think about it, gentlemen! I would therefore like to refer to an issue which scares me. The deficit of the insurance funds in the budget is estimated - if I recall correctly or have noted exactly - at EUR 2,191 billion. This deficit is important and is well founded - if you like - because you must also give it pension, whether it is cut or not. This government must do something. He can't give up everything in the breath of a memorial. All this must apply. But that is what I would like to hear from the opposing party. How will you reduce this deficit by increasing employment, creating jobs, by creating new businesses? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, if I may take the time of my dentistry as well. How will the state support for actions for the unemployed, for which we are all farting today and saying that these people need state support? They're our people. So we are crying out for all this, but I have not met a word anywhere, a word from which to understand that only jobs can be created. I didn't meet anything. The only thing I have heard this way today by the Minister responsible for higher education is that it includes the university, because it has a 20% reduction in funding. So it includes the university, but it does not mean that by enclosing the university, we stop having it luxuriously on the part of executives. But he has not talked to us about actions, about sponsorships for the university, about cooperation with other universities, which will bring incomes to the university. Anyway. I'm continuing, ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me. Privatizations: It's a big part. But it's a piece that's very difficult and it won't work. And I'll tell you why. We'll make some richer, richer, and we won't contribute to the state. It has been achieved by the privatization of the New Democracy gambling. He gave the OPAP, gave the Hippodrome, and I don't know what else he gave it. And well he gave it to us. So these bring tax revenues and bets. So I look inside and I see. Greek. The value of the Greek was estimated at 345 million for 2016. The five thousand acres of these, the "felet" of Greece, were valued at 345 million! I do not want to mention the name that appears as a bidder with a fund abroad. But I will say that this company, which is currently trying to get the Greek, has benefited multiplely from all the governments. Since 2002 it has been rich to the detriment of the Greek people and to the detriment of the Greek property.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u147	What's her name?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u148	You don't have to. It's known. If need be, we'll say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u149	I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u150	We'll tell you later. So here it comes and we say that a fortune of 345 million will be provided. Don't you think, gentlemen, that the issues of the special economic zones in Greece should be studied at a rate of 10% - 20%? European law provides for it, it permits it. Work in this direction. To come in. They must have a special tax regime. We are not saying 'no' to these. They must, however, respect the labour legislation and agreements with the Greek state so that funds can come and be paid back. Because those 345 million that the bidder will give once, the state will be able to receive them as an annual income. Think about it. To speed up, I would like to present a brief note for the Minutes, in the form of a memorandum, which I have drawn up for this very reason. [[At this point Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras presents for the minutes the abovementioned note, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] To conclude, I would like to ask this: these famous 25 to 50 billion dollars of the new HICP, the new Public Property Fund, from where will they come from? It's voted. CFS will be changing title soon. Where are they coming from? From the 345 million Greek? There's hardly any of that. Because you know that at the end of the day, in the sense of competitions, the objections begin, 'We do not sign the contract, because in the notice you said that to me and I don't find it.' Go on, then, boldly, gentlemen of the government to seek solutions that will give the world a job and bring with it permanent revenue. To conclude, I would like to say this: yesterday and the previous days the Centroon Union sounded a lot. And it was heard with characterizations such as, "they are lepers and leints", "they are rabbits." He also heard that he is ready to join the government. Is that the script coming up? I did so yesterday evening, followed by the whole of the Group of the European People's Party, disobeyed it, because nothing was wrong. Mr President, let me also say this because the debate on the budget is also a policy, as you know best from me. So we have denied it, and we are denying it again. But we want to answer from now on: there are scenarios that are moving. Why? Because there are other scenarios that say that there will be leaks by SYRIZA from Members in the next period for insurance and taxation. Some, then, have an interest in presenting these scenarios. But there are also other interests. And the New Democracy has interests to talk about such scenarios. Do you know why? And you and New Democracy and PASOK own the third memorandum, whether you want it or not. You signed it, you accepted it, and you need to implement it. Therefore, SYRIZA seeks scapegoats, and the New Democracy wants to load its own elsewhere. That is why we have proposed a solution that can help the country. Ecumenical government. To assume both major parties' responsibilities, to proceed in a direct way, to finish quickly, to get out of the crisis. The Centro Association has stated from the outset that neither Ministries are seeking nor a loot. So I expect you to listen to your decisions, because you have to decide that you have to get the country out of the way! Regularisms, populism, terrain can't be! Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr. George Carras. Mr Geramos Balaouras, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, it is clear that this budget is a budget for a country in siege - it is, I think, the most appropriate one to say - a siege that has begun since the rise of SYRIZA to the government and has so far, within the framework of the third memorandum. The budget is the programming statements for a next period - that is, 2016 - even hintingly. However, other messages are sent to the 2016 budget. It is not just a record of economic data. These are the first messages we send to examine and formulate our course. Although in a siege of siege, these messages are part of our strategy, a strategy - as we have said in a moment, I believe, by Mr Tsakalotos at least - which is formulated in the roadmap. This is a roadmap on recapitalisation - it has already been carried out - and then it is the first assessment. The next step - perhaps the most important one - is the debt debate. And from there on, we are entering a normality - let me say it like that - where we have to look and formulate our development model, our development vision, if you like. Starting with these four issues, let us see the question of recapitalisation. There is a question to all sides and to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, who spoke earlier. If there were no recapitalisation, Mr Brutsis, gentlemen of the New Democracy and the other parties, would we not have just a haircut of all deposits from the first euro but a bankruptcy of at least two banks? I repeat the question, because the ministers do not say it as clearly as a Member can tell. Would we have bankruptcy at least two banks? In my opinion, we'd have bankruptcy on both of the other two, why would the tsunami take a lot of proportions? Why did the recapitalisation take place beyond that? The main problem is the'red' loans. When the'red' loans reach the total of more than EUR 100 billion -110 billion - they say it is - that there can be banks that can move in even a zombie. Because the banks were like a zombie. I think not. They're accusing us that the price sold was small. Let's see the data: Indeed, the Greek state in the last recapitalisation paid - the Greek people, that is, the poor and the middle, because the rich have a way to escape - 25 billion in 2012. In September 2014, their value was 16.5 billion. A few months later, in December 2014, they had gone to 14.3 billion. In January 2015, before SYRIZA took over, it was at 10.9 billion. And finally, in June 2015, before the capital controls, they had gone to 6 billion. Indeed, he has now paid the Greek state - with a SYRIZA government I mean - EUR 5.7 billion. Another element, Mr Brutsis, and fellow Members of the New Democracy: why, in these days, the stock market is falling rapidly, even bringing down this minimum price, the very small price that the banks have sold? I'm moving on because I have enough to say. We have therefore entered this voting-right story, we have taken the cocos, which have a very high interest rate - almost 8% - and even at a time when interest rates are low and we do not increase the debt because we have only paid 5.7 billion of the 25 billion in loans. The Financial Stability Fund has the right to veto both the decisions of the banks and the progress of the administrations, to fly them, etc. I mean, ladies and gentlemen, one more element. You're saying we've been going well like an economy in the past few years. I'm going to tell you something that impressed me from "KATHMERINA": Disinvestment in 2014 was 11.5% of GDP, the lowest indicator since 1960. In other words, if we look at this scheme of gross fixed capital formation, which I will present in the Minutes, we will see that as a deinvestment in 2014, in a normal and strong economy, as New Democracy and PASOK says, we had this. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Gerasios Balaouras, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned outline, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With the budget, as many colleagues have said, we are increasing investment for the first time after five years. We are increasing for the first time after six years the social priorities by 823 million, giving great weight to health, with uninsured people able to use hospitals for the first time and reduce spending. They're not as you want them, with your neoliberal perception but real expenses, such as making use of public property. Tax evasion. Lists and now the last of Westphalia - Rhineland. We'll see the results. We're already getting ready and running. And did you hear what the Westphalia Finance Minister said? He said the previous government "spit them" and didn't want to take advantage of this list. Finally, we had collectivity. Even since Falciani gave the exam, we got $80 million. To see how the world that has escaped from tax, when the fear goes, starts and moves. And he gave immediately - immediately, in ten days, 80 million. Now, it has been said that the funds we will receive from tax evasion do not come into the budget, that we are improper as government and we who support it. It is obvious that they are not in, because six years you had ruled and were unreliable. He has recorded you - from the Prime Minister at that time, George Papandreou, to the last Prime Minister Samaras - the public opinion of Europe and not just as unreliable. How, then, they will accept from a new government, which they do not do, because it is a left government, to write down the funds they will fight to get from tax evasion, smuggling, corruption, etc.Huh? For the insurance I will only say one phrase: we want, we believe, we will claim that the model remains redistributive.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u153	Same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u154	The model is redistributive. It's not capitalizing, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u155	So it stays the same.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u156	It's not capitalizing. There is a huge difference in the democratic perception of civil relations with the State and with the public administration. I think the redistributive model - and the JRC's colleagues will agree - is something that helps future generations, undignified people, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u157	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u158	I didn't say anything. Did I say anything? I said redistributive. I didn't tell you anything more. Why are you protesting? We do not want horizontal cuts to take place. We want mobilizations to take place. We want society to demand that society make strong criticism and even criticism when it finds that a government can, by pressing, stray. Finally, for the scenarios, the members of the Centro Association usually come up on the Step and say that the House is empty, the MPs are gone, etc. Now everyone's gone. They can't answer. We have tested the global scenarios, ladies and gentlemen. We've tested the scripts of technocrats. Do we have a technocrat or something? We've got them all being valued. And Mr. Hardouvelis, and Mr. Stournara. We've all taken advantage of them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u159	You've exceeded time. Complete, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u160	Yeah, but you interrupted me so many times. In fact, Mr Voridis has come to suggest Samaras. I mean, we need the skeletons to get them out of the locker. I'm finishing with a Chinese proverb. Because last time in my maiden speech, I said the Arab proverb, repeated by the Prime Minister and turned into a dorm, and then the Honourable Secretary-General of the JRC answered me, I will now read a Chinese: "The best time to plant a tree is twenty years ago. The next best time is now." So I hope SYRIZA's tree grows, catchs strong and have a good shadow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr. Geramis Balaura, SYRIZA MP. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Katsafadas Konstantinos, has the floor, with the corresponding tolerance we have shown to Mr Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President, although I will not ask for your tolerance, because I understand the anxiety of the Members of the Government who are trying to baptize us with meat, fish. So I'd like to be as brief as possible. Ladies and gentlemen, with great interest I, like the entire Greek society, expected the first budget of SYRIZA. I expected to see the other way, the one who relieves the Greeks of HNPIA and the extraordinary contribution, which would bring the thirteenth pension, the tax at EUR 12 000, the increase in the minimum wage and the pensions, the abolition of 13% tax on farmers. I was expecting to see the budget that you would confirm - if you like - that this deep division, in which you invested and devastated in the country was true and that we afflicted, juveniles and all the others that you have accused us of in the past, did indeed work anti-nationally. Then be sure, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that we would have the courage to vote on the budget. Unfortunately, however, the reality we see is quite different. We have a budget with additional measures of more than EUR 5.7 billion, with an increase in tax rates affecting all families and businesses. And you do this to support an economy, which you restored from the primary surpluses and the positive growth rates after so many years and under the toil of Greek society, to deficits and recession. That is what the'surprising' you have been doing so long, amateurism and your inability to do so. The capital controls, experienced by the Greek economy, braked imports and exports. Tax revenue, despite the additional taxes you impose, is the lowest of the decade and the dues to private individuals compared to last year have been set at 58%. This, of course, has the effect of bringing more padlocks to the market and instead of jobs, we have new unemployment positions. For privatization and private investment, no reason, of course, because various terminology and pretexts, which are based on the intolerance of your ideological approach to this policy, lead to delays and failure to implement the various investments planned. But also state development, which you are evangelizing because of ideological squeeze, is shrinking, since you are cutting out of the Public Investment Programme of EUR 1 billion. At the same time, you are promoting increases in insurance contributions to both companies and workers. So you are thinking of bringing growth and fighting unemployment. You triumph, of course, for the recapitalisation of the banks, but without telling us how and why the need for recapitalisation arose, a recapitalisation where Greek investors were excluded and the money lost by the small shareholders, a recapitalisation, where the stock market value last year was close to EUR 25,000,000. Today is 500,000. And if you want to get rid of not only of our own accusations but also of your former partner and until a few months ago, Minister Lafazani, who spoke of scandal and criminal responsibilities of certain ministers of this government, you have nothing but a committee of inquiry. Otherwise it will be slick against everyone that you are trying to hide the responsibilities you have from this very big scandal. But your performance in social policy is also great. After you have managed to give only half of the grants to hospitals, to reduce by 50% the heating allowance, to get used to cutting the CSCE by sixty thousand low pensioners, to give only 40% of the multi-subsidy allowances to a country, where demographic is the most vital issue that we should be asked to tackle very soon and where you, even at this moment with this huge problem in demographic terms, impose 23% VAT in the sacred act of birth, without, unfortunately, creating no protection nets in both the third and the multi-stage families. But you are calling on us to agree and agree on an insurance plan, which you have not yet planned, but which has already signed cuts that reach over 1,800,000 for the next two years. So you show that with these communication tricks, the only thing that you are really looking for is not consensus but accomplices. Ladies and gentlemen, everything in life, as in politics, is a matter of priorities. Your priority is, as it turns out, to cut the funds from the excellent students and students by saying that IKY has no money when at the same time there are money to hire new cleaners to the place of the others that you transferred to the Ministry of Justice. Your priority is, to appoint another president and other CEO to the CECE, with thick wages, instead of giving the luxury allowances that Greek families are entitled to. It is our priority, however, and must be, together with the self-criticism that we must make about the mistakes of the past, put the excellence forward and not be retaliatory. To move along the path of responsibility and truth, to pass and to present to the Greek people a coherent national plan for the country, away from populism and demagogy, away from these two huge forces which have led the country here today. Along with all those who believe in a European Greece, together with all those who believe the need for substantial reforms, which are a priority for the country to move forward, reforms at all levels, from the political system to the economy and society, together with all the forces that believe in the virtues and abilities of the Greek citizen. Because, friends and friends, ladies and gentlemen, in order to build Greece that we really deserve, we must work together, we must get out of ideological ideological ideological abilities, we must believe in our strength, we must be realistic with the real potential that the country has, and then yes, we will take luck in our hands and we will build the future that is really worthy not only of us but also of the next generations. For this reason, Mr President, I am voting against this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u163	Thank you to the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Katsafados. Mr Christos Pappas, Parliamentary spokesman for the People's Association - Golden Dawn, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, in introductory terms, I should not be at this moment in step. My place should have been with my family. I should be present in my dear relative's exterior sequence, which is not strong, because this is how the outlaws, the 'para' of Doyaku, Samaras, Athanasios and CIA wanted. Listen, listen! A Member of the State cannot pass on the Greek territory, and even a Member of Parliament elected to four successive meetings. He cannot say goodbye to the nationalist Alexander Papa of Christos, the man who did not do the false national unity, but the man who was both in EDPS and ELAS and made fun of you all, because he had seen the matching Left and Right, that is, that you are the same. Mr President, speaking with you to the ladies and gentlemen of the House, I have to say this: 'Some people may now hear the voice of their conscience and hear their conscience say: 'What have you promised in the world and trusted those who voted for you and made you a representative of the nation? Don't you feel it? Your conscience chained to his hands is your sparrow. Release her. Those in the world trusted you, those who voted for you and made you a representative of the nation, don't you feel it? Well, let her go. Allow all of you to applaud the hurricanes of starving starving people to pay off creditors' loans." These words, which really should be words of conscience, as I have said, are not mine. They are taken from today's open letter of the left veteran, your own man, Manolis Glezou. An open letter addressed to the three hundred Members of Parliament. Surely Manolis Glezos sat on the fold of his life, as he himself points out, made a significant mistake. The letter should be addressed to two hundred eighty-two and not three hundred. We, the eighteen Greek nationalists of the Golden Dawn and we have national consciousness and we have Greek friendlyness, which unfortunately has disappeared. And I have not referred to my introduction, Mr President, to the family, and I said that I could not be present, and so on. I referred to the family, because it's the third pillar of our national life. "Patris, Religion, Family" is the Greek eternal triple, the trio of the rock of freedom, which has been standing for three thousand years in this place, as our Chief, Secretary General Nikolaos Michaliokos, had mentioned from this post. On the budget: Many of my fellow speakers, rival MPs and parliamentarians, have been quoted with figures, with numbers and made their own statements on the European Parliament's budget, the Memorandum and the Disastrous Budget of 2016. Without wronging anyone, I will refer to the words of our competitor Cassidy who mentioned the huge national issue, which is a matter not only morally, but also economicly, of the unprecedented German theft. In other words, it referred to the issue of German mortgages and military allowances, which, as a whole, amount to hundreds of billions of euros. Imagine that the exact calculations - not the Greeks, the Germans, the general accounts etc. - based on the dollar or on the UK pound, i.e. both methods, they only raise the directly demanded mortgage at EUR 570 billion. You dare claim it, left and right. Dare, gentlemen of the co-government, to put it in the budget. We have also denounced and all of us denounce the New Democracy - do not worry, these are the words of your Members - who not only voted in favour of the Memorandum - the agreement was then said by your Chief - on 14 August, but today for voting reasons denounces the measures of the memorandum, which are a natural follow-up to this memorandum or the agreement you say. In any case, the New Democracy wished - we remember all those days - the vote on the agreement, the memorandum and said 'Get the memorandum quickly to vote on it and the measures are your case'. Also, our competitor Yiannis Lagos expressed a position that is well known. We know her, too, and we know her hundreds of thousands of our Congressmen. He said that on the left and on the right you are the same. So whether we're talking right-wing or left-wing, you're doing the same in here. And yes - it's true - you do the same. Much of the awakened Greeks have understood it, all those who have closed television, who resist, those who are challenging our powers, those who believe that the only ones who can resist the ethnic breakdown are the MPs, are the political movement of the Golden Dawn. And I close, Mr President, by the end of the speech of our first elected Member, Mrs Salvation Vlacho. He said, addressing you all of the monumental, democratic, constitutional arch, that our ancestors sold properties to make home, and you sold home to build property. It was not heard yesterday in this Chamber. Some of the few who were in here just threw their head. What do they say? To confess the guilt of an entire political system? The guilt of the right-wing governments and socialism for forty years now? To agree with Pangalos, who said we had them together, the two parties of destruction? Mr President, as we know in the budget of the State monitoring is the budget of the Parliament. Every party of the constitutional arch yesterday, when suddenly yesterday at noon, learned that in the relevant code for the state funding of the parties instead of EUR 15,500,000, 5,500,000 were registered. Let me say that Parliament's budget has been passed by committees, passed by accounts, passed by parliamentary groups. It happened yesterday that an employee saw it. This, for people to know how laws - laws concerning your lives - are passed in this Chamber, Of course, this issue of state grant does not touch the golden people. Because, proven to be seven successive elections, we have based on our powers, our volunteering, our faith in our homeland and people, and have been financially audited for this by the ILO and the MPs and the funds of the movement, our party. Which of your own parties, which MPs can withstand this control? "These extermination measures we regard them as the tombstone of Greece. You promised that with these and the horrifying sacrifices that will be made, we will take the dose. The dose does not, however, come and instead of the dose comes, we see our lenders mocking us and humiliating us as a whole as a people. We therefore believe that negotiations have not taken place. And unfortunately, there is nothing to be ashamed of by those who did not negotiate but the applause from your hundred and fifty applause. Let me note here that from the hundred and fifty-three - mark it, people know it - they are Muslims the religion. As Golden Dawn, we are voting against the budget for co-government, because there is nothing for the country's development. There is absolutely nothing to fight unemployment and return - which is the most important of all - to national production. I'd say it's the third draft law that comes in turn. It preceded the sale of the CECE and the sale of the public property. We lived through the plan - the way it came - and now the dirty work with the budget is completed, which is a prelude to new anti-grass measures and a sweeping recession for the Greek economy. It is obvious to everyone, apart from the hundred and fifty three, that the budget for the coming year which we are invited to vote on tomorrow and to adopt by yes or no, is not a budget that has been established by Greek technocrats. It's like I said - attachment to the multi-projects and the laws. With regard to the budget areas which must be the areas of a favoured national state - such as the state envisioned by the Golden Dawn - these are health, public investment, shipping, tourism, labour and education. These were my excellent colleagues and our Chief, Nikolaos Michaliokos, will be present tomorrow. I will concentrate particularly on education, because you know how important the education for a people's soul is. That is why you have also made sure that George Rally starts to destroy education. If modern Greeks had received education, they would have received freedom and national pride. They would not today vote on the subordinates of foreign interests. They wouldn't become the same Greeks as they did. They wouldn't be the slaves of the parties. They'd have dignity. They would have the dignity and pride that the Golden Dawn has already given our people again. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am addressing this step above all to all those who are young. Young and young, my dear children, those who have so far held the fates of the country, the famous generation of the Polytechnic, all of them handing it over ashes and bourbon with debts for two and three generations, at the same time as the assignment of national sovereignty. We, my children, do not accept their policy. We never accepted it. I'm now fifty-three years old. Since my school years, however, I have learned to be above everything before all Greeks. Don't compromise, don't give yourself up, don't believe in the lies that throw you off the left and right. I am addressing all the present sixteen, the eighteen, the future golden ones. You are the future of the country and you hold the future of your country in your hands. You're tomorrow, and it's yesterday. Up on top of Greek youths, said Pericles Giannopoulos. Go on, then, Greek youths to extinguish the phantoms, the pussies, the traitors, to build a new Greece, to lift the sun up, to take from the gutter the sun, to light the sun around the world, the bright sun of Greece, the sun of the Golden Dawn." Mr President, I am ending with a little bit of my dentistry. I'm done with this. Be aware that the text that I read to you is exactly the same as the reason I delivered from this Step as a Parliamentary Representative in December 2012 in the then debate on the budget for 2013. And unfortunately, I see that nothing has changed. On the contrary, things have deteriorated not only in finance, not only in the invasion of foreigners and foreigners, refugees and others, but above all in our national issues, which no one speaks of. Today he visits Athens, the United States' hawk, the unselfish John Kerry. It is a visit marked by the sellout of our Macedonian name, the selling out of the Aegean Sea, the sale of Cyprus by the Tsipra - Kammenos coexistence of weak and subordinate to US energy requirements, but also to the dangerous games of the West in the Middle East. For the People's Association - Golden Dawn it is imperative and immediate that the need for our country to have a geopolitical shift towards Orthodox Russia, which can only be done with a national government that has a pillar of Greek nationalists. We're present. We assure the tested Greek people, who do not bend and listen to us, that we stick to our positions, do not take a step backwards. I do not change either from the speech in December 2012. We are not bent because nationalists are not bent either by bullets or by prisons. We have God, we have the people, we have the right to our side. We're united as a fist. We're the future. We're the hope. We're the Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr Pappas, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-six students and students, as well as three educational attendants from the high school and the lyric ranks of the Valley Larissa. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Georgios Amyras, Member of the European Parliament from the River.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my most experienced Members and parliamentarians say that the budget in the Chamber has never been discussed and there are no finance ministers. This is not an idea of Members, but it has a practical backing. We want to ask things, we want to know about things in relation to the financial sizes of the budget, and I fear they will probably go vacant. But let's go see SYRIZA's 2016 budget - ANEL. I question from the outset the government's ability to keep him, to perform him as he has been prescribed. And that's why I'm saying it. We must first of all move like any businessman, any family leader, who looks at two basic sizes, revenue and expenditure, revenue and expenditure. In revenue, therefore, we see on page 75 of the draft budget that their budget reaches EUR 49.1 billion. It says, therefore, that the report, i.e. SYRIZA - ANEL, will increase the State’s revenue by EUR 489 million in 2016. That's not accurate. It will increase by 2,300,000 euros. Why? In the 2015 budget and balance sheet, 1,800,000 euros of the SMPs, i.e. profits from the central banks of the euro, were registered. These were cash-adjusted in 2015, with a certain year of initial absorption in 2014. So, what does the budget say to us? It tells us that for 2016 the taxes that will be imposed will be EUR 2,300,000 more than 2015. Taxes, then, nearly EUR 2.5 billion over in 2016 compared to 2015? With what economy? With an economy that has the capital controls? With an economy suffering from unemployment, low incomes, low turnovers, investment depreciation? So the SYRIZA - ANEL government is asking and will impose more taxes than a market and households in retreat. Let's go see, however, the other size that matters to the budget, to the budget of any finance minister in any country. Let's go see the expenses, the state's expenses. So it says the SYRIZA Government - ANEL on page 76 of the report that expenditure for 2016 will be at EUR 49 billion, reduced by EUR 263 million. In other words, an entire state within a year, in 2016, will be able to reduce its costs, its costs by EUR 263 million, at the same time asking the private businessman, the private person, the familylor 2,300,000, 000 more taxes. One will say: 'Okay, it may be too small to save state expenditure, 0.5% more and more of the budget, but at least a state for wages and pensions will stand'. No, no, no, no, The budget itself - the text - says that there will be an expansion of the deficits of insurance institutions and, of course, the insurance comes, the rustling comes, the pension cuts are coming, Mr. and the subsidiary, which you will bring, which you are now telling us - almost nothing is going to do! - the State budget expenditure. But where's your parallel program? I heard the Deputy Minister of Education a little earlier and noted that he mentioned the parallel programme six times. Where's the parallel program? How are you gonna activate it? What predictions do you have so that you do not tax households and businesses, which are moving within a recession economy, as the budget itself recognises? I would also like to point out, and I would like to address myself to environmental and energy issues. First of all - and to be practical - if I had a minister here in front of me from the Ministry of Finance, I would invite him to give us an answer: The Ministry of the Environment in the code of the Forest Service provides a sum of EUR 7.9 million for consumer and compound costs. What does consumer and compound expenditure of 8 million euros mean for 2016 of the Forest Service, when in 2014 this expenditure was EUR 447,000? Why is this increase due? That is why we are asking that there should be a Minister for Finance, to tell us, to get us this information we need. So let's go to the environment and energy. I will tell you that the speech of Mr Tsipras' Prime Minister in Paris at the start of the UN World Climate Conference was disappointing. And I'm not the only one saying it. If you read a foreign press, you will see that in fact - if they weren't completely ignorant - there were too many unfavourable reports. Why? In a country with a wave of sunshine, which has air, can it not be possible for the Prime Minister not to mention a half-time reference to renewable energy sources? And is it something the Canadian Prime Minister, Justin Trado, who said 'for us climate change is an opportunity for growth'? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thank you, Mr President, for your little tolerance. Where is the parallel programme in energy and the environment? I would like to tell you, however, that the government is dealing with environmental and energy issues, which are basically economic. We have goodwill there. We also have mineral wealth, but also renewable energy sources, which sit and sleep. Here, then, I will tell you that on Monday that comes to us, on 7 month, the Greek consultation on the submission of the national plan is ending on how to deal with climate change. I would like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that all European countries other than Greece have submitted themselves, they have completed their consultation since September. We are the only country to reach the International Climate Conference without a national climate change plan. What else do you want me to tell you? There are good examples. For example, the Alonissos, with the very active mobilisation of the municipality and the Mediterranean company for the protection of the seal, since 1 December, from the day before yesterday, gradually withdrew and withdrew all the plastic bags. Why am I telling you this? Because I want to come to SYRIZA's supposedly parallel program. Listen to what Mr Stathakis, the Minister of Economy, said on 4 December 2013 from this Step: "We will do productive reconstruction and develop renewable energy sources with small decentralised units on the islands". Well, listen: Two weeks ago PPC, naturally supervised by the Government, signed and obtained a loan from the European Investment Bank of EUR 190 million to establish and operate for the next twenty years oil plants for electricity production in Santorini, Mykonos and Rhodes. Rhodes is the island with the greatest sunshine in the Mediterranean. Do you understand that? For the next twenty years, we will be on the oil tank! We're going to make these islands oily!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u167	Please finish, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u168	Yes, Mr. President. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say this: there is still a loose end - it has broken a global record of public consultation - for twelve years: the quarantine bill. At the moment we are talking close to the thousands of legal undertakings, mining, mining and quarrying, no one knows how many illegal quarry companies. For twelve years we haven't made the quarry bill that will put a class in all of this. No one, but no hint in the budget for the new quarry map that this country needs to have, in a sector that employs 100 000 people and which contributes 3% to 5% of GDP every year. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] So these are questions, these are issues which show that the body of the economy now - and I conclude, Mr President - seems to be incapable of needles in taxes and ideological inconsistencies in relation to the government's rational practices. That is why we, the Potami, are not going to vote in favour of this budget. It's a budget that once again happened at the foot, expands the black hole by sucking healthy forces of individuals, people, households, business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u169	Thank you Mr Amyras Georgios, MP from the river. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis Athanasios, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u170	To continue where Mr. Amyras left off. Because we are not naive or "little our finger", a total of around the issue of climate change and environmental protection is currently evolving with enormous economic interests. Those who destroy it appear to be saviours, to the point that the most serious report on climate change, where it was headed by an Indian, was denounced and admitted that he also altered all the elements in order to serve huge economic interests. That's what they're playing. As for the Alonissos, George Lambroulis, who is from Thessaly, told me that these actions are good, but in Alonissos, there is no doctor there!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u171	One doesn't rule out another.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u172	I say, then, that huge economic interests are being played. Nikos Karathanasopoulos and Stavros Tassos, members of the KKE, mentioned what interests are played in this field of green development, renewable energy sources, all that are very "modern" and "modern"...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u173	..................................................................................................................................................................... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u174	Don't get upset now or you'll find your trouble. So I say what huge economic interests are being played, what is behind various - in or out of introductory - ecological actions - I am not talking about the simple world that is sensitive and well-doing and has - what funding, what has been played in Cozani with the third unit - if I am not mistaken - some years ago until some filters are sold, so then there was no environmental problem! Therefore, it is a field today where they are trying to find out the huge accumulated funds. And what's the result, after all? The Greek people should pay more expensive power than they paid before and their pockets inflate. A second comment I would like to make - so that I do not waste the time of the next speaker - is that of the fascists of the Golden Dawn. We heard them report the American hawk, Mr. Kerry. But the 6th Fleet was not in Faliro - we remember him - who protected the junta whose flag the Pope raised in Crete? We heard something else that they're different from everyone else. Yeah, 'cause they're fascists! This is the most inhuman theory that human thought has given birth to and has done so. They are just now trying to change line, to appear as nationalists. That's it. But they are the same in other respects: Fascism is the power of capital, the power of the most aggressive, the most reactionary parts of capital. It's a genuine and not an illegitimate child of capitalism itself. That's what they're defending. Now, to go to the budget debate too, may I first of all ask what is the controversy that has been going on these days and for some time now, of course, but in particular now with the budget? Has anyone heard the words'reverse of this policy' or even'removal of the memoranda'? Oh, no. The argument is made by the new form of bipartisanism or better bipolarism. It has a block that SYRIZA - ANEL government and the rest of the blocks are New Democracy, PASOK, Potami and Centro Association, who's been on the ground lately and says things that make Thatcher look left to what he's saying. So what is the controversy? The controversy is about what the best group is - we will say so - what is appropriate not to abolish the three Memorandums, but to implement the three Memorandums which have no self-interest, it is nothing special each of them - we have said this too many times and we have been justified - but they are a condensation of the requirements of capital and are, of course, specialising in each country differently, but with a common strategy. However, there is something new and we must say it - and Yiannis Giokas said - that, apart from SYRIZA speaking with two languages, other than papers and other ears, he is trying to say in the budget and others he is trying to tell the world, beyond all of this, that he does not say that "we are obliged" in his argument, he is no longer supporting the necessity of this policy which he is implementing today, and even more so in the budget. It says that the agreement that has been made has been positive. This 'we couldn't do otherwise, others were our positions', 'we were obliged', etc. It begins and argues and competes with the New Democracy to whom it will be best implemented. However, the whole argument and the entire propaganda structure of previous years, on the basis of which SYRIZA and ANEL have consciously deceived, in our opinion, the people - we say of leadership - and they have taken government power, has collapsed from reality itself, as has the anti-immemorandum front - let me say so. What's the memorial? They're the requirements of capital. It is the needs of the system itself in times of crisis to prepare for recovery and to address it. It's nothing different that came from the moon and that's been receded as ever. This is important, in our view, for the workers and our peoples as a whole, because a great deal of experience has been gained over a very short period of time. This experience finally proves what? It also has another meaning for whatever powers, in whatever location of the political spectrum, they are placed trying to bring about what has died from life itself, namely the so-called 'antimony front'. It is clear - and I will say a few more words - that this conflict, which is also taking place within Parliament, apart from intentions, is objectively false. The general conflict was about which policy mix was to be followed in previous years and we revealed this. Now the mixture is homogenized. They are fighting who will best implement the same mixture, namely capitalist development. That's the story, who's better. What, then, does reality prove? That whoever is inside the European Union, who supports an economy that is in the hands of monopolies and serves it, who accepts the debt shelve - no matter how she negotiates it - which the people are in the neck, cannot, however it is called, as it may be called, implement a polemic policy. This is not to justify the position of the JRC, which had said so a long time ago, it is the very reality. So, what do we say? What should the people do? It is precisely because it cannot exist in these philosophical policy frameworks, it must create conditions for more general overthrowing immediately, by organising the class struggle of the games, by creating the popular alliance, by blocking and stopping it, because the attack will be lasting, and it will create conditions for a total overthrow and not fall into two great traps, called consensus and stability. What does it mean today to ask the people for consent? It means you've put the wood on, tied it to the column, and you say "shoot it, burn yourself." That's the consensus. When he has a shaped anti-popular barbaric policy, which is being launched and you ask him for consent, then you ask him to submit to capitalist barbarism. There should never be a consensus. Second, what does stability mean? They want, they say, a stable tax system to start with just. Meaning? More. It's cheap, a SYRIZA speaker said. It's accurate, he says, Greece for investment. So less taxation on big capital. What does stability mean? To accept the jungle's industrial relations, modern gallery relations, to be a modern slave. This is the stability demanded by the system itself, as is stability in a number of other things. The people must avoid these two traps. A third trap is the forces which today, because of this government's policy, have suddenly come to the tiles, as if the people forget what policy they have implemented over the past few years. Well, you have a consensus and don't complain. I'm saying that in general, I mean, there's the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u175	Outside, we have a consensus.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u176	The government, Mr. Voutsi, has a strategic consensus. When the system was divorced, all together did you vote the third memorandum, yes or no? You have support of another kind and the world will slowly understand it. What are all of you criticizing? You are critical of why you are not speeding up these measures, what you have decided. That is the essence of criticism, because you do not speed them up. Of course they say that 'we who are more genuine expressors of this policy cannot accept that we are outside the government. We can apply them better." The essence of criticism is "apply them" and the fight is about who will have the upper hand in all this policy implementation. There are advantages. One advantage the government has is that the people don't believe others, because they've lived through them all the previous years. A second advantage that she has and will come out of boomerang and remember the...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u177	Don't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u178	You're the only ones you like! You don't want to listen to critics. A second advantage it has at the moment, but it will come out boomerang - I say again - is that what you are going through now could not easily pass through. The New Democracy and the PASOK could not go through such barbaric measures. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I would also like the time of my dentistry and tritology. I won't talk again. But this is what the people began to understand. Be sure that the first ballots of resistance and mobilisation have already appeared and what is needed is to transform this into a popular stream of resistance and overthrow, because the solution is in conflict with this policy, in conflict with the causes of this policy, which is capitalist property, Greece's participation in the European Union. We are addressing the populace, everyone regardless of what they have voted for and what choices they have made, and we tell them to assemble on the basis of their class interests, to make the false hopes that are cultivated and to open the wings of great popular games. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I have asked for all the time I have and I will not speak again. It's 12 minutes, six minutes, and tritology three minutes, that is, twenty-one minutes, if I'm not mistaken in arithmetics.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u179	Twenty-five minutes for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u180	A budget is therefore the first of SYRIZA - ANEL. I would tell some to lower tone, because at least some, even ministers, are more careful. It is at least challenging to tell the Greek people that this budget is different from the previous ones and has a social character. We say they're in the same line as the previous ones, so they're the same. Different is time. We also say that it is escalating the anti-popular attack. Are we wrong? We'll prove it. Is your budget strategically different? What does it say on page 29? What are the strategic objectives? It says 'we want enhanced budgetary responsibility'. I have to tell you that you've evolved into speechtors. What PASOK opened up with words that no one understood, now you're the ones who apply them. What should the worker understand from the words'reinforced financial responsibility'? Technically, what does that mean? Who are you addressing? In the chapter? Oh, no. It means, pay, pay, pay, and say it in the popular layers. What's the second strategic axis? ‘Strengthening and attractive environment for enterprises’. Isn't that what it says? Read it, I got it here. Where's he headed here? In capital. So, then, he's in the same strategy as the previous ones? Isn't that what the previous ones did? It says - because I do not want to falsify anything - that relief measures are also provided for. That is not to say that it is a short joke, to say that it is a mistake. There's nothing wrong with it. What are the axes, to see if the budget is different? The axes are: "Relevant structural reforms in a wide range of policy fields, in order to facilitate - be careful - economic activity, strengthen the investment climate, increase entrepreneurship". Didn't the New Democracy and PASOK budgets say anything about the previous years? That's exactly what they said with the same words. What are these reforms? First, the labour market. What does it mean to reform the labour market? Are you bringing 751? Will you abolish elastic employment relationships and modern slavery? Nowhere. You will go further, i.e. a cheaper labour force or at best we will remain at today's levels of slavery. Secondly, the promotion and acceleration of privatizations. That's it, isn't it? Isn't that your policy? Aren't you moving quickly to privatization in all areas while complaining about it? Well said my friend and neighbor Mr. Manios, "neoliberalism is to give it all to the private." But that's what you're doing, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u181	Not exactly.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u182	What are you doing? You don't give them to private people? Didn't you sign for the airports? Don't you take the harbor out, everything in the hammer? Is he different because he has another seal? I heard him in a passionate speech that may express emotions, but the reality is quite different from what we say. Thirdly, liberalisation of strategic sectors of the economy further. Fourth, reform of the civil state. All that is being done today is to take measures so that the state can serve entrepreneurship more easily. That's what previous people said. It's like we read the budgets of previous years. New development incentives, i.e. warm money in business groups, tax immunity for large capital. So tell us, let's see if we don't understand the paperwork. Isn't that what capital has been asking for for so long? Didn't that pass through the memorials, the first, the second and the third, too fast? Is that not the policy of the European Union as a whole in all countries with or without memos? That's what they're asking, that's what we're giving them. So, what is different from that budget? Saying what you want to do? That doesn't matter. It is important that your policy is followed. We also say that it is escalating the anti-popular attack. Are we wrong? Let's see. First theme. Do you remove anything anti-oleptic from the previous ones? Oh, no. You keep it all. You're adding new weights, yes or no? New measures, therefore, for 2015 and 2016, 7.3 billion. The new taxes are 4.2 billion, 41%, i.e. consumption. Who pays them these taxes? It is the most anti-grassroots tax, as is indirect taxes. People's layers are loaded with more. You also put 160 million more taxes on farmers and 114 million on young professionals. Expenditure, 3 billion cuts. Take out the 500 million for Defense, the remaining 2.6 billion from where they're cut? Of wages, pensions, welfare, insurance funds, social care. The total is 8% if the monopoly groups pay and 92% workers. This is a further escalation of the anti-popular attack, yes or no? Who serves objectively? Is this population budget hard, classic and barbaric that is called on to pay for it all, yes or no? And if we add and open up the question of what is still coming with the insurance policy, which was postponed until January - and I say again that it is a cause of war, it is the last thing now, that is, then there is nothing worse than impoverishment, and we, as far as we are concerned, will not allow it - if we look at the new measures that are coming, so we are going in this direction. They're said enough. He said a Minister - it is not a facial issue - that this is a war budget, forced. We are at war, and therefore we cannot do anything different. Let's agree. Who are the opponents in this war? Determine the camps. Isn't that how it's done in the war? Unless you've seen new things. So who's the opponent? Who fights who? Is corruption fighting? Easy. Is that all? Of course, there is and is part of the very capitalist system. Who fights who? It is the war of capital and labour, the war of unrelenting, constant and unrelenting, which is trying to literally break rights, so that it can bring profitability. Is it or isn't it? What camp are you with? With the paper? All that I've proved to you before, with evidence, shows that you're on capital, unfortunately, and I'm saying independently of what everyone says. Who's the opponent today? Is the European Union, or is it not? Is that the imperialist alliance, yes or no? Turns out it's a wolf alliance that we were talking about, both for us and for all the peoples, yes or no? So who are you with? Contrast to her or not? And now let that there are both powers and things. Forces are changing. Third theme: Who's fighting? Imperialism with all the peoples and we risk becoming a holocaust in the region. I'll say more raw. Aleka Papariga said it. How's your government? Does he go against imperialism or accept everything for various reasons? There is no time to analyse the reasons. So don't talk about war. Of course, we're at war, and we realize it. What, then, is the prospect? The people can't wait any longer. And I'm closing up with it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You're ruining it for the best!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u183	There's better!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u184	And since at other times there is a slogan that marks not our history but also the history of the peoples, which says "when the people are in front of the danger of tyranny, they choose or the chains or weapons", that is, in today's day, translates - so that some don't start and get out on the tiles - that when the people are in front of the danger of capitalist barbarism and ventilation, then chooses the organized, hard class struggle, then chooses to build their own camp.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u185	Weapons are guns. Let go of the translation.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u186	The workers, the employees, the self-employed, the poor farmers choose a strong popular alliance that is resisting and which will immediately set a deflection target. Only then can he get distracted and then only he can create conditions for another society where the wealth produced will go to those who produce it and not eat it by the capitalists.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u187	Thank you to the Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Pafile.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u188	Mr President, I would like to say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u189	No, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u190	No, I won't speak. I request the floor on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u191	For what now?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u192	What I wanted to say is - I have avoided speaking so long - that the budget is primarily an economic issue and the finance ministers must be present or present by the government. They've been missing since morning. You need to be diligent.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u193	You're wrong. Mr. Chakalotos was here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u194	Mr. Contonis, at the moment there is no representative of the Ministry of Finance. And you came a lot later, and they've been away a long time ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u195	Most of them attend.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u196	You're wrong. I've been here since morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u197	Let me know, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u198	Good. New Democracy MP Athanasios Kavadas asks for permission from a short-day absence abroad for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u199	The House approved the requested permission. We move on to the position of the President of Parliament, Mr Nicholas Voutsi. Mr. Voutsi, you have the floor. How much time do you want, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u200	Twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u201	You have the floor for twelve minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u202	Ladies and gentlemen, even in the report of the Bank of Greece which gave us two hours ago, there is a clear tone - a note, one would say - optimism for the economic things of the country, at least one point and then - from the very beginning, but certainly one point and then another - of the new year, and there is a positive assessment of the recapitalisation - and I say this because many krone have been heard on this issue - and its result, which saves some 16 billion of the debts, in relation to the loan contract. And that's important. It would be strange that the opposition would vote or approve the budget. Democracy wouldn't work. It is perfectly reasonable that it does not vote in favour of the budget. However, one would expect a few things to be said in the debate that has been going on for days in this House, particularly as regards what the Opposition is saying and what the Opposition proposes, particularly the Civic Opposition, is what needs to be done. Let me tell you that last year - and you remember it and the Minutes - the Procedural Opposition, SYRIZA, we, in all our speeches, had a set of positive proposals, apart from the denouncing speech, etc., about how a policy could be engraved and progressed in every area. Some of them have proved in fact and within the specific circumstances that they could not be implemented at least this year, others may have proved that priorities were not correct, anything. However, there was a set of positive proposals to overcome the crisis in a different direction from the then government. Today we haven't heard anything. I want to know that in his speech Mr. Dendias really - looking to hear something positive from others too - he said about insurance to build a piggyback in relation to public property and its exploitation and put it in the debate. And I repeat that we need to know that. Anything else, from a set of speeches, is in a direction of refusal, complaint, differentiation, without any positive alternative. And that is very important, because it is linked to other things. One would expect, for example, to the Europeans - if we were to say that a front of positive proposals could not be put forward beforehand - a front of resistance to what is actually happening, which is pressured by this government. You forgot very quickly that last year did not complete the fifth evaluation and they had not accepted either your proposals and the e-mail Hardouvelis etc. You forgot. So, today in terms of European partners, what is being raised by this House across the street? It doesn't sound like a conversation in terms of Officerial Response. With regard to riskology, for example, or rather the danger that the debate on Schengen entails - which two - three days comes back and is properly discussed, because the situation and reality are such that are being discussed throughout Europe - a defence, a complaint against those who want to prosecute and push the country out of Schengen, in this case yes or no? It cannot be silenced by the Civic Antipolitics in this and to seek whether Musalas or Christodoulopoulos did not do well and led the country to be on board for Slovenian, Hungarian etc. and tell the country to leave Schengen, and from there on silence. It can't be done. But I'll say for others, so you don't feel that your word for education is wrong, for the famous 23%, which you really remember was about four and a half in the morning, when he came in a summer. The education unions were here and we were looking to see what? You voted, we voted. Fortunately, it has not been implemented. As far as I know, the government has proposed that 0%, 6%, 13% instead, i.e. instead of 23%, which was not bad, i.e. 0% for infants, etc., 6% for mass, which is foreign language schools, etc., which all families of all stratifications give, even to record as a tax, which is not currently recorded in the case of high school, high school, etc. And there was a conversation. The European Union came and said 0% or 23% and the government was forced to do so, went to 0% and looked for wines, etc. What position do you have? Why didn't you support 0%, 6%, 13% possibly? Why 0% or 23%? What did you put on this? I repeat things that are passed by the Greek Parliament in summer as such. Other issues: I'll say about the banking system. Are you aware - because I see remarkable former ministers who have had an activity and an experience and who have been shooting these days for the recapitalisation of banks - that they have been asked for our country - and are still playing - to be the only country in Europe that has only a systemic bank of 100%? While there is no country that has more than 70% systemic, they also have the other banks that can and do the targeted jobs, investing in small entrepreneurship in all countries. Our country was required - and you know them, I do not want to talk about microphones in detail - to have only four banks and to close all the others and the cooperatives. I didn't hear you anywhere. What happened? Nothing. Only for the recapitalisation and how the government did it, which was unfortunately and could not be done differently, thankfully, only 5.6 billion. I told you what the Bank of Greece's report says. But on this major issue, in relation to the direction of the banking system in the country, why do you not say anything? All the experience where you can touch it? What do you have to say about this? How will you fix it tomorrow, or how are you today helping the government correct it? I could also refer to many other things, such as the future of the European Union. The European Union is convening over the last two years, Ukrainian, refugee, transatlantic agreement, economic crisis, austerity strategies, conflict within a multi-polar international system of power, wars, etc. Cuvet for the European Union. It's like we're talking about there's a Civic Opposition in Greece completely provincial - a political provincial, I mean - that sees between the triangle, as we used to call it, Kolonaki, and so on. what happens in the political life of the country. Say positions on these things. What about the architecture of the euro? What should be done with the issue of democracy in the European Union, with the European Parliament, with the budget, with the other things Mr Tsakalotos said yesterday, responding and having a fruitful dialogue with Mr Loverdos? Where are you in this thing? You don't exist, it's not on your agenda, your matter. I say it as an accident, I don't say it as a success. Then let me tell you this. The elections were held yesterday. Do you feel any need to consider, reprint, study what has happened in that country, through the memorial policies of the last five years? Do you feel the need? I do not say that in the sense of self-criticism to the people or within your party. I don't care about that. I am interested in this: do you really say four times that the Left has deceived - in this case, SYRIZA - the people within a year and a half? For I hear from morning to night about deceiving: 'they', 'the deceivers', 'the deceptions', one, two, three, four. Do you not think that something else can happen, that other things may be happening, that things and consciences and prospects and hopes of the world and social stratification and class interests and the European dimension have changed so much in relation to the country's relations? Nothing. Zero. There is no question of this. Is there a field of understanding - and I mean extensive understanding - with individual differentiations on various issues? Of course there is. Of course, I am going to refer to the refugee issue, where it seems that some steps have been taken in the Presidential Palace, at least to those who were there, but to what I know from the debate in this House, perhaps this issue, namely the refugee issue, has a wider impact, could be said by a certain number of central views. I shall say, however, about the following issues which are at the door, and that is why I am making this speech today, because we have a day and a half ahead of us and it is good until tomorrow that we are placed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time bell of the President of Parliament is being alarmed.]] Allow me some time, Mr President. First, pensions. He told the Prime Minister that there would be an agreement that the pensions would not be reduced. So, what does he mean? Because it is obvious that there are 'unless' and within the budget and elsewhere - we have all seen them - and therefore the solutions, baskets and buttons - are to be found together - in the medium to long term, not ad hoc, for one year, because you can understand that no one is buying this. You remember what Norway did in relation to its oil when she had found it. She solved her problem for the next few years. Let us see here and have a wide-ranging debate on the coin and the real weaknesses in capitalism, which came from the causes that have been analysed and for which it is to blame. I'm not going into this conversation. Why don't you have a fruitful conversation about this? Why don't you join this conversation? What are you waiting for exactly? Should SYRIZA fall and New Democracy come? Let them go to hell!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u203	Sunday's short!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u204	That's not happening. Let go! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I say, firstly, an agreement on the basis of the non-reduction of pensions. Secondly, on industrial relations, there is a requirement - and they know it very well, particularly from the point of view of the International Monetary Fund - to liberalise redundancies, further flexible relationships, etc. etc. Can an agreement be made, a sloppy front to regain collective bargaining and all the coexistent sinners, and defence and corrective steps be taken in relation to the major issue of industrial relations, leave the working middle ages? It's something that's playing now. Say it. You've said it and you've been fighting it etc. - I am not talking about it - just from all the wings to shape this concept. Third, the debt. I hope that we all understand that it is not sustainable. It's not possible! In the same conversation we spoke last year, beforehand, whether it is viable or not. Hey, it's not! They call it unreasonable that they don't come out and start looking for different impairment methods, nominal impairments, haircuts, that they don't call haircuts, or they'll call it haircuts, etc. etc. Do we agree that it is not sustainable? I haven't heard of it yet. We have been challenging for a year and a half, which we were in those Chairs and now, as a government, to make a total attitude on this to see that 'children do not come out with this debt, nor a national productive reconstruction plan of the country can be made on the basis of the commitments made annually if the entire debt is to be repaid'. There are various aspects, rich dialogue and scientific ones, and others about how the country could claim the highest possible debt write-down. We're going to this thing together. I don't understand why not. So, then, there is a wide range of contexts in which here is a glorious field, keeping all the criticism of how we got here, how the numbers are, otherwise, one thing. Alas! Otherwise, there would be no Collapsation and Opposition. It is not possible, however, to discuss this at all. Ladies and gentlemen, these days, and on the basis of the fact that this substantial dialogue is not taking place, we are developing political fantasies of the interactive centres. Again, ma'am. 'References', for the Government. Ecumenical governments. Destabilisation of the political system, which is also destabilised from the point of view of the Officerial Response, on the occasion of the debate and the process - is its own topic - which has chosen for the selection of its leadership. Should it not be an end to this anti-democratic practice, which is indeed a project of some who did not want the first eight months of war - and now it is a second war - to lose their interests and put the political system as a pawn or try to put it in order that their own interests may remain intact? Should there not be a front of democracy from all over the House against them? After all, this budget is a proper tool, a sufficient tool for this phase, for the implementation and respect of the roadmap in which the Prime Minister of this Step, like the Minister of Finance, has been mentioned a little while ago by analysing the government's scheduling declarations from this step, as was the case with the Minister of Finance, and so on. We remain faithful, firstly, to the need to overthrow political austerity at European level. And he's got a lot of...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u205	In a European.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u206	On a European scale, Mr Pafile. And it is very important that what has happened in Portugal. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It is very important to see what is going to happen and to help everyone in Spain too, to help us all in other countries, to make use of all the small, so-called contradictions of the system, precisely in order to be able to defeat the strategy of austerity at European level and, of course, to be defeated in each country separately, but not early and as a definite step forward of a disfellowshiped army - let us say - which goes to infinitely. Secondly, we have said - and we say again - that this House, with the abolition of its mandate and several times before, may be the House where independence and disembodiment from the memoranda and commitments which are currently binding on popular sovereignty. And that's what's gonna happen. I believe it strongly. For years, they will be governments that have been democratically elected and with the support of the people both here and in the polls and on the road, with the radical Left of class, social, popular and historical responsibility for where the world and our people are going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Nikolaos Voutsi, President of Parliament. Before we move on, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, fifty students and students and four educational sessions from the 1st Gymnasium of Lefkada. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We proceed with Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Nikolaos Xydakis, who has the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few words about the political action being undertaken through the budget and through the parallel acts which are, on the one hand, binding on the agreements, on the other hand acts resulting from the SYRIZA's political programme. Two words, as far as our area of responsibility is concerned, of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. But also a few words about the actions, actions and policies which are unfolding in foreign policy, particularly the thorny issue that concerns Europe, the refugee issue. As far as the Foreign Ministry's budget is concerned, Mr Kotzias is responsible for the fact that he is here in detail. What I can say is that the foreign ministry's budget is moving in historically low, is probably below 0.2% of the national regular budget. They've become unprecedented cuts. It's almost half doubled, compared to before the crisis. We are trying in every way to curtail unnecessary costs. Unfortunately, some of them are being curtailed. Perimeters are making it difficult for the full operation of our country's extensive diplomatic network. Our country has a homogeneity, has dispersed throughout all the lengths and backs of the earth. He's got a big shipping. It is a country with a great presence in the diplomatic field and has a very extensive diplomatic network. Many consulates have merged or closed. They didn't need it. The times have changed. However, with a great deal of effort and a great deal of stress in work and the diplomatic service and officials, our representation is being adapted to all the international forums. We're present at all multilateral meetings. In bilateral relations we have a very good performance and we open up many new fields. It is also a key role that the Ministry plays in this new effort that the country is making to develop international economic relations and attract investment. It is very well coordinated with the domestic tourism economy. It tries in every way - and with visa versions and in any other way - to facilitate the attraction of visitors to our country. Now, in the wider context, my assessment is that this is a tough budget, no doubt. The government hasn't hidden it. But he's a balance budget. He's trying to let the economy and related in any case society after 2016. And we know that he is part of a roadmap, on a roadmap where great regulations are being introduced in matters of thornyness, such as insurance, which will certainly have a long-term goal of entering a class, unfortunately, at a time when unemployment, black work and work deregulation have undermined the insurance system. However, I think that after this all-out course of arrangements, we can expect to be well-founded - surely - that it will come back, reinstate the programme with its contribution to the International Monetary Fund - which is expected to be around 20 billion - and pave the way for Greece's accession to the quantitative relaxation programme. I think that this is just as important, in a sense, as the debt regulation. Lost liquidity will be able to find itself again, and I think that in a few months' time we will be able to look differently than at the moment when we are under the magnification of the hard reforms that the agreement imposes - those we have to do and we have to do, to get out of the way - and the unexpected historical crisis that has woke up with the wave of refugees and migrants. On this, we must say that neither Greece nor Europe was prepared. The forecasts were for sub-strategic flows in the most unfavourable scenario. It seems, however, that many geopolitical and geostrategic factors also increased the size of the refugee wave and accelerated the pace and brought the overflow point closer together. Our position, always expressed in all the European fora and in all the Mediterranean and international fora, is that it is important to give a political solution to the war conflict in Russia as quickly as possible. That is why we welcome the Vienna initiative involving Western countries, as well as Iran and Russia and the countries of the Arab world. It seems that after the terrible blow in Paris - which is to be seen as an export of terror and horror experienced by the Middle East to the heart of Europe - Europe is waking up. It wakes up too late and tries to take a political and diplomatic initiative. The evidence - and we hope there will be proof - that all the burden of the European Union will fall into the political solution. It is being triggered because the crisis that is currently taking place in the Syrian war has two forms. It is not just the asymmetric threat of terrorism. It is also the export of hundreds of thousands of hurt people - perhaps more than a million - who are coming or have arrived in Europe or longing to leave the devastated cities. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Deputy Minister hits the warning bell.]] That is how we understand that the whole Mediterranean is a neighbourhood with interdependent interests. These disasters only politically with solidarity, soundness and in the light of peace and security in the region we can deal with. I would like to say a few words about the threats, the unfair attacks and the lies that have spread over the last 24 hours to international media. I think that this has to do with, firstly, the embarrassment of the European Union to face a major historical problem, and little with our own technical difficulties. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I'm gonna need two more minutes, Mr. President. We have said from the outset that we cannot deal with all this refugee problem alone. It is a European problem and not a Greek problem. We said at the first moment that refugees should be facilitated for relocations from the Turkish coast or from the countries of the Middle East, where they are camped in crisp camps. Europe must help this wave. The European initiative has been taken on this with a delay. There has been discussion and cooperation with Turkey, but events always run faster than the European Union and its bureaucracy. However, there seems to be political will. At the same time, however, we see that this major crisis, the second following the major economic crisis and Ukraine's mid-term review, is testing the cohesion and unity of the European Union. There are political forces in some European countries that want to ignore the founding conditions of the European Union and the conditions that everyone has signed, such as the Geneva Convention, which provide for how the refugee is treated, how the immigrant, how the asylum seeker or the applicant for humanitarian aid. [[Z' Vice-President of Parliament Ms GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS]] Europe, if these voices are heard, is in danger of going before World War I, before the great conquests of international law and international organisations. I have here to present to the House Article 78 of the Treaty of Lisbon, which has signed all the Member States of the European Union and the relevant article of the Geneva Treaty, which is common European law and an integral part of the European acquis. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Nikolaos Xydakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would therefore inform you that from what we are seeing both at the meetings of ministers and at the meetings of leaders, voices are being heard which challenge the founding Treaties of the European Union themselves, the legal, political and moral values which are at the heart of the European Union. I think Greece has done everything in the past few months to make Europe a white person, save hundreds of thousands of people, make more than eighty thousand rescues within the sea. Unfortunately, we have grieved victims. It does all this in a state of budgetary suffocation after five and six years of economic crisis. I think we have contributed as few to European culture these difficult months within our political transition, during an election period, during a period of rebuilding the state mechanism and government. Good criticisms are well-founded, but the criticism that comes from xenophobic and anti-human reflexes should not even be heard. Thank you very much for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Papaphippipou from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a left-wing radical, I believe that these days are particularly important because the first budget submitted by the left-wing government is being discussed in cooperation with the ANELs. In view of this fact, the question arises from the following: in view of the unfavourable economic and social context - for which, of course, SYRIZA and ANELs do not bear responsibility - this budget has a positive and left-hand sign for our country and our people, and in particular for the social majority of this, namely the unemployed, the low-wage, the small and medium-sized and low-retireeered people who are in favour of SYRIZA and who have been most affected by the disastrous economic and social policies implemented by the PASOK and New Democracy governments over the last five years? I would remind you that these policies have caused our country and our compatriots an economic and social Armageddon that is summarised in summary terms: a 25.7% reduction in GDP, an increase in debt from 126.7% of GDP in 2009, to 178.6% in 2014, a terrible increase in unemployment, especially young people, a sharp reduction in incomes by about 40%, a sharp reduction in pensions, the disappearance of the reserves of the insurance funds and a large humanitarian crisis. For this reason, the Greek people who have a memory and a crisis, although the colleagues of the two parties above show him as a spiritually handicapped person, in two successive elections, set these two parties on the margin and assigned the country's rule to SYRIZA and ANEL. However, in order to give a valid and secure answer to this question, namely whether this budget has a positive and left-hand budget, this budget should be seen and evaluated as the first budget from the four of these years of 2016-2019, that is, our four-year government term, since all together will mark the fiscal strategy of our Government. At this point I consider it necessary to point out that despite the pious desires of various political and economic circles, whether intertwined or not, for an early fall of the government, our Government is absolutely certain that it will take up four years, since the majority that supports it is absolutely firm and determined to carry out the difficult task entrusted to it by the Greek people in September. I would remind you that this work is summarized in detail in the following way: at the end of the four-year period for our country to come out of the committee and for the economy to be restored to society and our fellow citizens standing. Coming back to the budget under discussion and looking into it in this respect, I consider it necessary to make the following points based on its individual elements and on what they declared and analysed in a thorough and convincing manner from the Step of the House, both the ministers of our Government and many of my colleagues. The objectives of our Government, therefore, in four years' time, are as follows: First aim is to maintain budgetary balance. This is reflected in the primary surplus targets in the budget balance of 0.5% of GDP in 2016, 1.75% in 2007 and 3.5% in 2018 and 2019, when the economy will now have recovered from the recession. The second objective is to put an end to the reproduction of the essential flow of the Greek economy by decapitating it from the highest primary surpluses anticipated by previous governments' programmes between 2010 and January 2015. The new and much lower primary surpluses will enable less relaxed fiscal policy to be implemented, less compressed demand and more adequate social problems to be tackled and injustices lifted. Thirdly and most importantly, the main objective is to strengthen the social budget, namely the budget for combating unemployment and the humanitarian crisis, for health and education. For example, I quote some important elements in the social budget. Firstly, the total cost of the social budget is increased by EUR 823 million compared with the previous budget. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will be done in a minute. Secondly, the social budget includes expenditure on combating unemployment, other sickness benefits, privileged benefits, public hospitals for supplies of goods and services. Nine hundred and eighty-five seats have been opened and another two thousand four hundred forty permanent posts are due. Expenditure on the humanitarian crisis and the extension of minimum guaranteed income at national level have been foreseen in the regular budget. And fourthly, there is an increase in expenditure by EUR 62 million to provide a social solidarity allowance for uninsured over-aged people. It should not be possible to accept the aid, by re-budget, for the first time in the budget, which will significantly fuel recovery and support the exit of the economy from the crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, the core of this budget is a combination of budgetary balance and social justice. This priority does not exist in any other budget and is in adverse circumstances and great financial constraints, the government's left footprint in the 2016 budget. As long as, in the coming years, there will be increased revenues from the fight against tax evasion, avoidance and smuggling and public spending will be saved using its own buildings, the share that will be committed to the social budget will be higher and the left footprint will be strengthened. For the above reasons, ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that I will vote in favour of the budget. Unfortunately, time does not allow me to make criticism on my part as to what the Vice-Presidents are saying and proclaiming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u211	The State Secretary for Foreign Affairs Mr Dimitrios Mardas has the floor. Mr. Marda, that's your denture, but know there's a tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u212	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in general I am always brief, but today, if you like, I will be less brief. As the year ends and a number of things have been heard which are generally related to budget and debt or to anything else affecting the state budget, I would like to make some points which have given rise to a lot of interest when I heard them in this House. So I come to the debt haircut. As you recall, the nominal haircut was in the range of 137,9 billion euros. I heard with interest in Parliament on several occasions that the real haircut - and Mr Venizelos said that - was of the order of EUR 167 billion. This is a position that is admittedly interesting, because, you know, when we economists hear something that is inconsistent with what we know, it makes sense to look into it. And without, of course, Mr Venizelos giving some explanation, I looked into it and he has in many ways been right, because he took into account a set of factors which, in fact, could lead to an increase in the debt haircut, the EUR 167 billion, as a real size, as I suppose he did - and rightly took into account - some things that were relevant, for example, to the interest that we would pay if we did not have this haircut. So all of this leads, admittedly, to an increase in the nominal debt to EUR 167 billion, which is the real debt. This, of course, would be quite right if those who support this analysis take into account all the factors affecting the real debt. Because if we take into account all the factors and not only some who affect the real debt or the real haircut, then according to studies that have come out - and we have here - from the Bank of Greece, but also other studies produced at universities and institutes, the real haircut is of the order of 51.2 billion euros. Therefore, it is not EUR 167 billion, but EUR 51.2 billion. And this is interpreted very simply by the following fact: When someone cut a debt or gets back some money from someone and give it to him under the table, then we don't only see what he's taken, but also what he's given and you have to get the clean result out. And it really needs to be analysed in terms of real debt or real haircuts, which the Bank of Greece - I repeat - takes up EUR 51.2 billion and not EUR 167 billion. Without being absolute, the other day, the dear colleague who was in the General Accounting Office of the State, in the reversal of his word on a similar subject, referred to a number of points, which came from the reasoning you developed on the seat. Of course, at that time I did not have the time to answer, but perhaps we can see it privately, because to some extent what you said is in line with the Bank of Greece's reports. I come to a second point which has been discussed and which is the Capital Controls. There was a debate which started at a point that said that due to the capital controls, the recession in the country would be from 2.6% to 4%. Then, with my calculations, I said - without, of course, having accurate information - that this recession would not exceed 1% and that it was too much the percentages given. According to the budget, this recession is below 1%. So it was too much of what they had heard. And what is worth exploring perhaps here is the following: would we have capital controls if New Democracy existed? This question is very interesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u213	Not if there was, but if he ruled. Because there is the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u214	If he ruled! Excuse me. To supplement, 'if it existed as a government'. I can't say for sure that we would. But it is also a little difficult to say with certainty - with the data we have in our hands - that there would be no capital controls. I am giving you some data, which may not, of course, lead to safe conclusions at the moment, but they cannot rule out this fact that I mentioned to you: by 2014, we left the banks about EUR 115 billion. There was a great divergence in the primary surplus of 2014, which we have said on several occasions and has now been satisfied with the actual data. The uncertainty about the closure of the Agreement in February 2015 was a given one. One could not say in advance that you would close in February 2015 any new agreement you signed. This means that you would not have taken all 7 billion euros, which were scheduled to be given, bearing in mind that since August 2014 we had to take some money that we were due to. I will not come to the cash deficit of the period, which also affects it. And you remember - we said it - that, according to the data we received, on 24 February, we had a cash deficit of EUR 350 million. If we put on any other data, then the question, "If there was a government, the New Democracy would have a haircut?", can I tell you that it's a little lame. And it would be worth the trouble of having a study, so that we can see which of the two positions is being shot down. The case, however, is difficult to break down, according to the few data I have given you and some others, which exist and can lead to this result. With these remarks I wanted to close my views on the budget. They are positions which have been heard throughout the whole period since the elections. I think that they did not respond and that it would be advisable to provide the necessary clarification in terms of both the debt haircut and the question of capital control under any other economic policy that would be followed by the country, which would continue what you had prescribed by 2014. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Loverdos has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, I too would like to speak for a minute as a general rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u217	Not provided.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u218	You're making a mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u219	If Mr. Loverdos permits. He's next after Mr. Mardas.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u220	No problem, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u221	If Mr Loverdos agrees, you have the floor, Mr Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u222	No provision is made, Mr President. I, too, asked for the floor yesterday as the rapporteur-general and you rejected me.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u223	It was a different matter. Mr Stavura, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u224	First of all, the Minister in his position confirmed that there was a debt restructuring in the past. So, basically, you have confirmed, beyond the figures, that the debt has been reduced as an absolute figure. This is a good thing to say to both groups, because they claim that nothing has happened in the past. There may be disagreement at the level of the figures, but the amount of the debt has been reduced and the structure and profile of the debt has changed, i.e. the extent of the maturity of the bonds and the amount of interest, so that interest is much lower. I'm glad we agreed on that. With regard to capital restrictions now, I would like to tell you that there has never been a case, with any government, if it was following the stepping-up that we had up to February 2015, that there were capital restrictions, because very simply capital restrictions are the result of the government finding itself out of programme at the end of June.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u225	Objectionally.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u226	The closure of the banks and capital restrictions were the result of the operations and omissions of the then government in the summer. After all, you said so too - in February the government called for the EUR 7 billion. He just asked for it at the end of the evaluation, which randomly the end of the evaluation was at the end of June. According to the then Minister of Finance, Greece did not need money in February, it needed dignity. So there was no question of the capital restrictions and the closure of banks by any government - even the SYRIZA ANEL Government - if it was following the precedented stepping-up, that is to say, closing the programme in February, or if there was a small extension, which you requested, there could be money disbursement in the medium term. Capital restrictions were the result of your government's actions and omissions, and so was the country's offline in the summer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u227	The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos, has the floor. Mr. Loverdos, it is your second-guess, but there will be a tolerance of time, as there is with all the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I had the opportunity yesterday, in my theory, to express the views of the Democratic Incorporation for the 2016 budget, in a way - as I have hoped and hoped to achieve - comprehensive, harsh criticism of the government, but fair to the correctness of the arguments and, in any case, uncharacteristic, undermining and repetition of a bad past of the last five years, where opposition has exiled in undermining and slandering. He was absolved then. I was pleased to hear the dialogue with the Minister of Finance yesterday on the views that exist today and are being discussed in modern social democracy and I welcome the Minister of Finance in this dialogue. It is, of course, a shift from the recent past and its own and its party. However, this debate is welcome and can also be useful at a general and useful level. I want to make two reports of what Mr Mardas said yesterday because you left after. I made a reference, more generally, to the climate of deinvestment. Because you raised in your prototype yesterday four issues on which the government is energizing and one of them was the question of investment, quite rightly you said about the need to combat bureaucracy. I told you, in reply to you, that it is something that we have been in deficit as governments over the past few years, but some steps have been taken, not what the country needs. What the country needs in the field of reducing bureaucracy and better organisation of the relationship between the state and the economy, we still owe them. But you must accept a criticism, take it from you, and at your expense, because you have received an investment climate that was improving, despite all the difficulties that the state is creating. And I agree when you say about investments that people have been fighting since 2005 and have still not done. And there, within the institutional guarantees - my own institutional guarantees - that the state is intervening to support transparency, etc., produce corruption. To overcome the delays, it also creates unwittingly of its own many times, but also the system in general, conditions of corruption. Your numbers are injured in relation to what you said. You took a climate of return to investment-positive rate - the fourth quarter of 2014 was 5.4% more positive than the third quarter of that year - and once you took over, we had a fall of 2.3%. And since then this percentage has risen. So in your ninth month you didn't breathe. And when you promise to reduce bureaucracy, without accompanying your promise with specific policies that you will implement, then, Mr Marda, you will remain from the small corner of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a State Secretary with good attitudes that will find a barrier to the rest of the bureaucracy that is to your face. Or you will say what needs to be done, you will dial it up, you will prescribe it - whether they are practical or matters for which there is a need for legislative initiative - and you will bring it here and you will call on the National Representation to support you or say air words - air which, every four years, three years on election dates, we are all talking about it, but we are not doing it. Because, as a political system, we have many dependences on the state, and we are afraid to make the breaches that need to be made and which the economy needs absolutely. So here you have a problem. You have a problem and don't say a lot of words before you have specific things to say to the National Representation about practices based on existing legislation and legislative initiatives. The Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs spoke a moment ago. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been in existence for many years - I am referring in particular to the years of the crisis - reductions in its budget. Reductions in the foreign ministry's budget do not have a wide range of protests, social reactions. That is why I would always like to remind the leader of the demagogy in the modern Greek state, whose good student is the current Prime Minister, the 19th-century Prime Minister, Diligiannis, who closed the embassies, because he put forward arguments here like: 'What do we want the embassies?' "How much does an ambassador get and how much does he get?" and so on? That's what he said and closed the embassies to save the state budget. After a while, of course, the great need to support the country's position has led us to reopen the embassies. But precious time was lost, too much precious time! We have, ladies and gentlemen, this year - you are voting for this - 8 million less in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Department of Foreign Affairs is on its limit. In my opinion, it is beyond the limits of its strength. You cannot support your country in its big issues unless you have structured services in addition to the foreign policy pursued, for which I do not have time to report. I made a little mention yesterday, and on Monday when we have a contract in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we will be very detailed about both the Ministry's finances and its policies, especially over the last few days, where the Prime Minister of the country, ladies and gentlemen, made one mistake behind the other, especially in Greek-Turkish. I said yesterday - I do not know if the former Minister, Mr Brutsis, noticed it, I saw that he was following my speech at that point, but some journalists and today asked me to explain - that the insurance company has all the changes and all the parametric changes that have been implemented by the beginning of September and by the Government of SYRIZA. In the third Memorandum, in the Left Memorandum, the first theme you have voted and applied is saving the insurance through the application of the n. 3863/2010 you had fought. Then, for the next three to four years, with supplements, in practice, this law deals with insurance under good conditions. In fact, in December 2014, the then leadership of the Ministry of Labour carried out a proportionate study - under the conditions, of course, of the growth that existed at the time - which gave sustainability to the insurance system for the next thirty years. Now, bring in a dialogue on changing the insurance architecture, which is supposed to give resources. There are no such things, ladies and gentlemen. There aren't any! You are baptising 'insurance' the need to raise funds from the public sector insurance. A change would give resources to the insurance system. It's one! There is no need for a Summit of Political Heads or for a debate on political leaders in the House before the day. A small amendment is needed. To have a Ministry of Social Security and Health. A Ministry - one hand being the so-called "client" of the health system and its other hand being the provider - under a Minister and the money for the EEAS - not to be deposited in the five main insurance funds - the three large and two small - and that is where transfers are made to the EEA. If EPOY automatically has the money, it can buy cheaper medical care and thus reduce its cost. But that has a very big problem. It has the problem of the reluctance of the main insurance funds to accept it, because they will have a problem with the payment of pensions, because they take medical care to pay pensions every 1st of the month. Do you have the courage? Our Prime Ministers did not have the courage to make this change. Do you have the courage to make this change? This change would be useful. I can't see you. Something about architectures you say, a few words of air, a few discussions of the political leaders, you say, that they are supposed to lay down conditions for the creation of resources for insurance, without making a cut in main pensions, etc. And lately we hear many positive - your own Members - in the public debate talking about increasing contributions, which you will be voting on says. That's gonna tear the economy apart. It will increase undeclared work, so further. She's increased in your nineteenth month. That's the knife in the insurance. And don't think of bringing something like that here. Ladies and gentlemen, what Andreas Nefeloudes said yesterday, namely that the main pension will be linked to income criteria, more broadly working, do not dare to bring it here, because we will have a real parliamentary and political war. Mr President, I would like to say one more phrase on education. The national dialogue, as it is being attempted, has two problems: the composition of the central committee - not to mention myself, because the references - and the problems that exist since you call for national dialogue and, at the same time, equip with amendments that you bring and vote for the party state. These two cancel the dialogue. I propose to the Minister of Education that a committee which we legislated last year, the committee of the former Ministers of Education - those who are alive - should be able to have a debate with them about things very useful and very directly. Tradition of this ministry never occurred. We were there, ladies and gentlemen, to deliver. He received a minister who said he didn't understand memorial, troika, etc. The minister in charge didn't stay. He went to the Ministry of Culture to pick up, but he didn't stay there either. We surrendered to the Deputy Minister, who said to us: "We do not recognize trophics, etc.", left outside the discussion of this particular person. Now that you have been humiliated by the inability to appoint alternates, you have understood what this is all about. Now, then, there is room for a debate, not of course a central committee. This is a comedy, not to say more. We should go to this body, which is legislated from last year, if anything is heard, if there is any room for something to hear from you and something from that to do. Finally, I would like to say that we had a debate a few days ago on the recapitalisation of banks. A lot of things have been heard here in the past two days. However, the Chairman of Parliament's Standing Committee on Economic Affairs cannot tell us that, with this movement of recapitalisation, the deposits were protected and rejoiced. Indeed, the testimonies were protected. That's true. But it's the only thing that's been protected. However, we had negative consequences for all the other areas relating to the operation of the banking system. All the other fields! And we made a special report about the shareholders, about the public and so on. I was saying - and this is what I like - that the Chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs reminded me of the man who bears his head on the wall and hurts, who at some point stops hitting it and doesn't hurt and says, 'I did it, I did it well'. You added to our competitiveness crises, public debt, deficits that we had in 2009, and the banking crisis. You have saved the deposits with a recapitalisation for which responsibilities will be sought. You have not finished with this. Bier was sold to private banks. In the summer with the referendum, we said that in Greece with 5 billion euros you will buy the entire Stock Exchange and we thought we were talking too much. The banks bought five billion! And there are people here, members of the National Representation, who are proud of it! To download 'the big words', see what state we are in and see if, with the start of the economy - if you manage, so far all your performances are negative or even sad - the country is able to take its next steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, too. Mr. Mardas has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. It is very important that we know what the true size of debt is and that people also know that from all this pandemonium, which took place at the time, the debt was reduced by only 51 billion. After all, who lifted this weight? Minor owners, funds and others have become untouched. That's very important. From there on, whether the debt has increased or decreased, we are monitoring it and seeing how it is evolving. It is nothing absolute as to whether we had capital control, in which case the New Democracy existed as a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u231	Let's go again!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u232	No, don't rush to draw conclusions. I'm not absolute, but you can't rule it out. What you're saying is that you would close Flevaris, it's a case. It wasn't a given. If you were going to close, you'd close in December, as planned. There was no reason to reach February. Even the 7 billion you intended to take, it was absolutely necessary that you take it in the time you wanted, bearing in mind that we had to get from the International Monetary Fund since August 2014. And those we had to take. So there's a difference between cases and actual data. I wasn't entirely sure to tell you it was going to happen. The assumption that it would be difficult to rule out. I would like to address the dear Mr. Loverdos. When we make communications related to next year's budget, we set some targets. These objectives are neither great words nor small words. We can critically accept, when the year is over, and we are coming and delivering the results of these goals. If we have not reached our objectives, then we will clearly accept any criticism that is correct. Before we say that you will not approach your objectives, that is whether it has any evidence that can prove this, but not any evidence related to an oral presentation, which is related to some analyses, which can lead to the conclusion that we will not approach our objectives. Then that's where I'll come and say we talk about it and see if the analysis is correct or not. This analysis - I repeat - is not a political analysis, it is a technical analysis. As for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the budget reductions, I can tell you what I have said before. The country's budget still has room for limiting the waste. We did this at the State General Accounting Office. No, we're gonna do it, we did it. From about a thousand four hundred codes of 1.500,000,000, we cut expenditures of 200 million, which we considered to be a waste. This is an exercise, which has taken place. At the Ministry of Foreign Affairs we are working on the budget and with a redeployment of expenditure we can achieve what we want, despite the fact that we have this reduction in the budget, something that the rest of us have. The redeployment of expenditure, however, shows us that there is room for more comfort and even in such a difficult environment, as long as we make the necessary savings and cut off the existing waste, which is constantly being cut, but which we have found and we are still trying to alleviate.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u233	Mercy! The 200 where did you give them?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u234	What 200?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u235	Where did you find it?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u236	The 200 have already been cut off from the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Marda, are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u238	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u239	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u240	Here, Mr Brutsi, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u241	Thank you very much. I listened carefully to Mr Marda. He is the Minister, who made an amazing statement the day before, that he is the brave, personally, and charged inferiority to the previous government, that he did not apply the memorandum. I, Minister, would expect you to say something about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u242	I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u243	That's how it was recorded in all the media. You didn't deny it. You accused us of not being brave to apply the Memorandum and you, the Super Memorandum Minister. We're giving you the title. But you are out of climate with the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, which, throughout its position, has so far been talking about resistance to the memorandum. Make it clear what you are. Make it clear what you want. Stop this political duplication between you and the fairy tale you tell the world about. Your right to be in favour of the Memorandum so strongly. The point is, however, that by referring to the cases you are doing, if we turn back time, you can be sure - and the whole of the Greek society knows about it now, it is a conscience and it has become a consciousness of the whole world - and if the New Democracy remained, and you did not cast it in the unacceptable, violent way, that neither the pensions would be reduced, nor the capital controls would we have had any tax increases or taxes on farmers or the abolition of the VAT on islands. Everything would have been on a different course, on a household course. Greece would have left the memorandum and finally proceeded to the clearing. Unfortunately, you and the party to which you belong led the country to the ruins. And today you have abolished all these sacrifices of the Greek people. There's no hope. The hope that you said was a candidacy and you are now bringing us to an uncertain future, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u244	Mr Karamanlis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u245	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u247	Now have we started personal? Wait a minute. The Minister wants the floor on personal grounds. You, Mr. Loverdo, want the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u248	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u249	Minister, you have the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u250	First of all, you did not attend my almost seven-minute speech yesterday on this matter. Take the Minutes of Parliament, see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u251	I can't watch you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u252	I'm answering. Do not read the titles of the newspapers, the titles of the news reports. Read what I said. I can send them to you, and you can read them. You see them today on several websites or even on the minutes of the House. Don't look for cheap alibis, considering that someone is a memorial, who told you that you were cowards and strategical guts, because you didn't do the same thing. And what did you do, where I didn't talk about? You have made a policy of austerity immediately at a speed, considering that it is the right thing to do, which has brought down the incomes of pensioners and wage earners where they arrived. When I mention the word "trained" policy measures, wage and pension policy was not the slightest run-off. That's the word I used. I do not know what you mean by the word 'training'. You ran through what Mr Loverdos said yesterday, that he watched corruption, bureaucracy and another set of policies, which have been self-evident since 2005, not since 2009. That is my criticism of the cowardice you have shown and of the lack of strategy, not of the austerity policy that you have shown, which for six years I have constantly burned it down. You can understand - just to watch - that it is not possible for one to burn down a policy for six years, and suddenly on the seventh to applaud it, and never had such positions. Therefore, you are monitoring - and I have said so again in the House - what we say, as we say, rather than the titles of some articles or some analyses. The whole record of my speech on the broadcast in question has been filed with the House, where of course you see very clearly what I have told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr. Marda. Mr Loverdo, now you want the floor on staff, do you want to intervene?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u254	I want the floor for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u255	You have the floor for a minute strictly, because I have told the Member who would speak and wait.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u256	As a parliamentary representative, I have the opportunity, following Minister's intervention, to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u257	Mr. Loverdo, we're not negotiating this. That's not what we're talking about. I told you to be brief within a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u258	I, Mr Marda, also have the recording of your interview with the "trainers". Political mutations are within the programme, but not so rapid. It's about the entire government, it's about you. Accept the criticism, especially when it comes to things you now say, while you did not say yesterday and said other things the other day. That's a review. We didn't tell you anything more. We've been criticizing you. How much more for the four arguments your last night: Investment, smuggling, bureaucracy, corruption. We told you that all four of you have failed. From Nikoloudis, who has been lost and no one knows why he was lost, from the smuggling you brought in six months before you said, from the investments, which are at this rate and from the bureaucracy that you have added signatures before there is an investment. Where are your arguments? You have no arguments. I do, however, have a question to you, which you have just been Deputy Minister of Finance, addressed to the Minister of Finance, with great interest and with a view to the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on Monday. The budget is reduced again by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I read from the ridiculous Mr Alexiadis, something of great interest, shocking interest. He says: "We will implement a proper PASOK - New Democracy law on electronic document service". Indeed, we voted in 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Loverdo, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u260	Let me go, I ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u261	I'm sorry, I'm consciously interrupting you. So long you've had the time, for goodness, with great tolerance from the Bureau and don't complain to me for fourteen minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u262	No, no one.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u263	...and that question you didn't ask while Mr Mardas was here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u264	I have not had time, Mr President. Now that I see him, I'm asking him.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u265	Excuse me now.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u266	I didn't have time. I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u267	You may also be able tomorrow, as a parliamentary representative, to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u268	I'm done. Now I have comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u269	Now the Minister will ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u270	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u271	Look, with this and the remaining Members are waiting, who have every right to protest.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u272	Thirty-five SYRIZA Members have not spoken, so we have luxurious times today. It's over. I'd be done. Minister of Finance, Mr Chakalote, says here that 11.5 billion has been paid for a performance in 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u273	Millions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u274	It says billions.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u275	The performances?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u276	Yeah. Is that true?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u277	Is that your question, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u278	It shouldn't be, it must be wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u279	You raised your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u280	If it's 11.5 billion, the number is incredible to be true. Correct it. If it's an 11.5 million issue, it doesn't exist. Whatever you buy from this amount, it's good, with your electronic performance. Are you planning on applying them this year? We voted for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u281	You're done. Mr Karamanlis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u282	Are you sure?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u283	Who are you addressing? It's for sure you said. Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u284	Nothing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u285	Mr Karamanlis, you have the floor and with tolerance to know in advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if one were to ignore what happened in the country from January to today, it would certainly be very difficult to believe that this budget is the first budget of a radical left government, because in fact it is either we like it or not, it is a Memorandum budget, which brings new taxes and new cuts, which ultimately leads to the recession and which imposes new measures of 5.7 billion, which is forward - and the Minister's argument is also being rejected, that six years we have led the country into greater recession - and which brings again cuts on pensioners. When we of the major Opposition say it self-evident that you brought a third and harder memorandum, you answer us many times from this Step and in a cynical way, you will allow me to say that the people knew that this September above - down and yet voted you. That is why today I am going to talk about something which you certainly did not say and did not know the Greek people when they voted for you in the elections. And that's how you planned and finally implemented the recapitalisation of the banks. First of all, the banks did not need to recapitalise if they had not previously been closed and the government had not imposed capital controls, since in the period of your own, 40 000 000 000 had been drawn up. And with regard to the hypothetical question of whether capital controls would have been carried out, if it were the previous government in power, our rapporteur quite rightly replied to you that if the government had not come out of programme, we would not have the capital controls. I will add that in history we never ask 'if'. Secondly, two years ago, the government then recapitalisationed the banks, i.e. it made an investment of EUR 25 000 000, thanks to which the banking system was then rescued and at the same time the Greek State - and I think this is very important - was found to hold the majority package of four systemic banks. Now this investment has evaporated. The value of the shares today is only 500,000,000. In other words, we have a loss of EUR 24.5 billion with a single move. Thirdly, they were not lost by Greek taxpayers only 24.5 billion. The majority of the banks were also lost, public participation was dramatically reduced. Fourthly, only 5,000 million people have control over the banking system. Be careful, not some foreign institutional and serious investors, but the so-called dissed funds, which, as we all know, have the quick profit, in every way. Fifthly, the recapitalisation at the end of the day could argue that it was cut and sewn to the measures of these funds. In other words, as Mr Stathakis has admitted, without a limit on price, without any possibility of postponing the procedure, without the participation of the public and without the participation of the institutional domestic investors or, if you like, the participation of domestic micro-enterprises. And I conclude by saying that for years now, what I remember, is the Left has a political flag of the country's lasting sellout on the right. From the privatization of PPA and OTE, until the investment of the National Bank in Turkey, sooner or later Opposition, from the mighty then PASOK to the small parliamentary SYRIZA, had told her that any attempt to exploit public property, i.e. privatization, was a sale to speculators who take silver for a piece of bread. In fact, the budget states that there are multiple benefits from privatizations. They're estimated at 2,000,000 euros. However, so far, we have not heard either a Member or a SYRIZA Minister defend these multiple benefits from the militarisations. But politics, as we all know, plays very strange games and so today the Left Government does exactly what it would not dare do to the most extreme neoliberal. The claim that the recapitalisation of the banks is a crime to the detriment of the Greek taxpayer is therefore not in any case excessive. And perhaps it would not be too much to argue that precisely this recapitalisation is one of the most serious issues and scandals of post-population, since 24.5 billion has been lost within a very short period of time. In conclusion, it seems that on one thing SYRIZA was consistent and had told the truth to the Greek people when it was still opposition and gave everything to become a government. He said Mr. Tsipras was gonna get bored and the markets were going to dance. Obviously, he meant he'd be boring the tumults just as those who then called "market horns" and then they'd dance and party out of their joy today, since your government has done all of their favours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr. Karamanlis. The Minister for the Environment, Mr Skourletis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, since autumn 2014 it was understood that the programme did not end, that the programme was not coming out. I see it in your style that you agree deeply. In view of this reality, you saw that it was not possible to respond to the difficulties, the situations you had yourself led the economy, and so, by going to the elections, you previously made sure that there was no agreement, while you did everything to drug the environment, the situation in the economy immediately after the elections, because you realised that you would lose them. This is the reality, a reality that has nothing to do with all your reports of success, about the possibility of going out on the markets in the spring that we have been through, about a successful policy, about sacrifices, which have been made and taken place. None of this was done and you know it very well, so with relief you saw that the votes for the election of the President of the Republic were not held and that we were led to the elections. It was a peculiar escape from your responsibilities, escaping from a situation that was appalling for society and the economy. The agreement that was drawn up immediately after the seven-month period of August was necessary by the things. It was a deal required by the connections. The agreement, however, differs from the previous two. It is different because it has succeeded in not containing volatile materialistic primary deficits. This agreement promoted and acted in the case of recapitalisation and, in particular, a recapitalisation characterised by a radical approach to the question of banks. Why? Because he responds to the core of the problem, which is the red loans. Watch out. You say, again unconvincingly, addressing SYRIZA: "Your policy has led to the need for recapitalisation". But is that true? Is the more than 100 billion red loans a result of seven months of SYRIZA's governance, or is it the footprint of your policy? It was a policy characterised by interlocutory relations, where it gave unconditional loans to specific interdependent interests, a policy that led to the unreliability of the banking system. And, of course, it contributed to this untrustworthyness, to the marginal situation that had reached things, all this propaganda that began by the former Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, when in the café of this House he called on the Greeks to make their money out. Then followed by Ms. Vultesis as a Government Representative and various other first-class members of yours. This agreement that we signed last August also had another issue. He put on the table a different approach to the issue of debt, which you have never understood to do, which, as you remember, all the previous years of your administration have spent it, saying that Greek debt is sustainable. Really, is Greek debt viable? Are you still claiming it? Really, in the conversation that begins now and where everyone will be forced to take a stand, what will you say? Will you defend the Greek Government, which will try to achieve restructuring, which will significantly reduce the Greek debt? It is something you must answer. At the same time, last August's agreement defined the issue of privatisation, bearing it in the context of the already nine well-known privatisations and making a different approach to the issue of the use of public property, setting the conditions for the creation of a new fund. In the light of this, then, we must also approach the budget which we are discussing today. It is a difficult budget, a budget that prioritises the issue of fiscal stabilisation, with the greatest social sensitivity possible. I will repeat this: with the greatest social sensitivity possible. You should listen to it because there was no action in politics in your day. Ladies and gentlemen, this policy that is being implemented at the moment seems to put a brake on the downhill and slowly and tormenting the conditions for another landscape. It has already appeared from the approach, from the estimates made for the Greek economy for 2016 that things are changing. And whoever's standing outside will see things in terms of a little more macroscopic. It will find that the Greek economy seems to be able to win the bet of its credibility and to have visible results since the spring of next year. At the same time, the agreement we signed last August had some dilemmas had some open bets, which in no way existed in what you signed. You have followed with gratitude a programme that has been imposed on you and which you did not understand in the context of a negotiation to leave some things open. One of these issues is IPTO, and I would like to refer to this, since it relates to issues of the responsibility of the Ministry of Energy. Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that in the August agreement on the issue of high-voltage networks, in other words, IPTO, there was an approach that said that you would either proceed to privatisation or present us with an alternative equivalent measure. The equivalent measure has nothing to do with money that we would find by selling or putting on other measures that would be equivalent to what we would earn if we sold IPTO. We are talking about an institutional equivalent, which is linked to the way in which the energy market operates. On this issue from the first weeks, in discussing the institutions, we have made it clear that the question of privatisation does not arise for the government and has been accepted. Today, then, we are discussing - and this week we are entering the most critical week, so that we can finally see whether we will agree with our partners - on the basis of an alternative approach, which will, of course, decouple the high-voltage networks from PPC's ownership, but which will remain under public control. I would like to ask you a question, and I would ask my colleagues from the New Democracy who will be speaking, to tell us if this critical week, which the Greek Government will fight to maintain the public character of the high-voltage networks, you will take a position so that you can help with this effort, or if you will recall your old proposals for privatisation and small PPC. Really, are you still insisting on this? Do you think that this week when the representatives of the institutions are coming here, there should be this on the table? Tell us. It is very crucial to know what Census in Greece says if he can even say something. Because, frankly these first months of SYRIZA's second governance, there is nothing specific that is called on your part. You know what? When we were in Anti-Policy, we told you some things, that you were extreme neoliberal, you do not negotiate, you do not do so in terms of dignity, you do not look at the issue of alliances, you do not submit a different view of Europe. This policy, in fact, weakens the very concept, the idea of a united Europe. Now what do you think? Which side are you criticising us? On the argument side, when during the referendum you said 'yes' to new measures? From the point of view of the arguments and positions which you committed in the medium term to the continuation of wild austerity? From the point of view of the arguments that wanted to see primary surpluses much higher than what we managed to predict for the Greek economy in the years to come? For all this, you have said nothing at all, despite all you are doing is to be without compass, with an identity crisis, with a strategic crisis, which today distinguishes your political body and is reflected in the way in which the debate is being held on the emergence of your new leader. Really, these new candidate leaders, don't they have to testify to a political platform? Is it good for democracy that there are parties that choose their leader before they hold a conference? What if this Chief can't express the political platform that will emerge from the later conference? Isn't this a form of oxymomile? Of course, these are fine letters for parties that have become accustomed to operating in terms of purely presidential and the notion of inner-party democracy is something that they are divorced with. Ladies and gentlemen, in the energy sector in our country a great deal is already happening and more will be done. We are in such a historic phase, where the global environment is changing. Our choices to reboot the work of the TPA, this great pipeline, and at the same time the work of interconnecting towards our northern borders with the so-called Greek-Bulgarian pipeline are options that come to work positively in the energy security of the country and its development. Take note, however, that we received an agreement, the agreement on the SSP, from the previous governments, an agreement that, if we were in things, we would have done differently. Nevertheless, through the negotiation we have been negotiating lately after the last elections, we have succeeded and won some things. First of all, there must be compensation for the public land - you did not anticipate it in the agreement you had made - that the company should have compensation for the passage through the woodland, which you did not even anticipate. We have also achieved doubling the sums to be given on the basis of corporate social responsibility by the transit municipalities. Because, indeed, we realise that in some areas there is a need for compensatory benefits. In addition, on the occasion of today's debate, I would like to tell you that yesterday, in a very critical debate carried out by the Energy Regulatory Authority, we have succeeded and made a decision that reduces at least a little - but I think it has a very important and symbolic value - the EMSMAR for domestic tariffs and for small businesses. It is a first step in a direction that we want to follow. And it is precursor to go to a greater reduction in electricity tariffs in 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have said before, this budget is essential to reality itself. We will go, always trying to secure the maximum social consensus. We will seek dialogue with the other political forces. We do not flirt with views on the universal governments, which are essentially weakening and distorting the very functioning of democracy, in the belief that this road may be difficult, but with a left-wing government at the helm, it slowly creates the conditions of dismantling from austerity policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty students and students and five teachers attending the 44th Larissa Municipal School. Welcome back, compatriots! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Before giving the floor to the next speaker, Mr Venizelos will take the lead. He has requested a two-minute speech to say something about the Rules of Procedure. Here, Mr. Venizelo, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, the question I would like to raise on the Rules of Procedure, and more specifically on the question of the violation of Rules 24 and 77 of the Rules of Procedure, concerns the fact that a moment ago in the Chamber of Parliament and before the House, a State Secretary was wrongly falseed, trying to mislead this House's crisis, while the top parliamentary procedure of the House's budget is being conducted. Mr Mardas asked for an intervention in the debate to inform the House how much the nominal debt reduction achieved with the 2012 major interventions and he said neither too much nor much that the total nominal reduction was 51 billion, which were collected by the Greek banks and the Greek insurance funds. This is a raw lie and an operation of conscious misled by the House and the public. Because I am really tired of invoking numbers, I have asked a number of weeks ago the Minister of Finance, who, with a delay and in excess of the Rules of Procedure, only replied yesterday that the nominal debt reduction in 2012 is at the level of the Central Government debt of 108.5 billion, and at the level of the general government's debt, that is to say, the netting of the funds - because it is the total benefit of the General Government - 96 billions, that is, 50 percentage points of GDP in 2012, much more now that it has unfortunately decreased GDP. I am presenting to Parliament the answers given to me by the Minister of Finance, attached to a document from the Public Debt Management Agency. This document reminds us - it reminds the Parliament and the Greek people - that in 2011 the average debt was six and a half years. Now it's sixteen and a half years. It reminds us that debt service costs in 2011 had an average interest rate of 4.55% and now, today, 1.79%. It also reminds us that in 2011 we paid 16.1 billion for debt service, whereas this year we pay 5.7 billion, that is less than 1/3. Also, in another reply, retarded, but in any case written answer, it reminds me and the Minister of Finance that as far as the total state grant to the insurance funds is concerned, of which 13 billion were actually transferred to the general government, to which the State and the funds belonged, the funds have benefited from the central government cumulatively, from 2009 to 2015 with 104.5 billion, of which 95 billion are grants for the benefit of the insured. In addition, in the official annual report of the European Stability Mechanism, the ESM that is the lender of Greece and the successor of the EFSF, as I have repeatedly said, Mr Regling explains that, in addition to the nominal debt reduction of 108.5 billion in 2012, it was only through the change of loan terms from the European Union to further reduction in net present value terms, because we have better interest rates, longer maturity, better maturity, equivalent to 49% of Greek GDP in 2013, that is, to another 100 billion. The documents by Mr Tsakalotou and Mr Regling speak of a reduction, which is in nominal terms 100 billion - to speak more briefly - and in terms of net present value, i.e. a real debt, at least another 100 billion, i.e. 200 billion. And I submit to Parliament all these documents, which, in any case, are government documents, so that we can finally reach agreement in this place and in this area, so that you all know where we are starting and what must now be done as a complement to and complement to the debt reduction. Indeed, we want to help to improve conditions further, but in order to do this, you need to learn about them, to honor them, to support them and to bring something further to them. However, the truth of numbers will prevail over falsehood, slander, obsceneity and deception.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u291	Mr President, I would like the floor on personal grounds to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u292	Now the Minister wants to answer. Now look what's going on. What will the MPs become at the end of the day? Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u293	In the face of what you said about falsehoods and those, I submit to Parliament page 107 of the Bank of Greece's specific report, which says that the net final result of all transactions, on the PSI, was the reduction of the debt within 2012 by only EUR 51,2 billion. These aren't my calculations, they're from here.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u294	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u295	Mr. Marda, have you finished your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u296	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Venizelo, please, at 7 p.m. you'll talk after a quarter - 20 minutes. Leave some time for the MPs. He's here, and the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u298	I'll talk for less than a minute. I am surprised that not a Undersecretary, but a professor of economic science reads wrong reports, in the wrong way. The Bank of Greece's report says what the total debt burden was in 2012 because there were deficits and, of course, the benefit from the 2012 intervention was not clear. At the end of 2012, we had to incorporate the deficits produced because of the crisis and because of the recession. It combines the benefit of debt intervention - and indeed of nominal intervention, because this does not affect nothing with the net present value - with the overall management profile of the year as a whole. Of course, we continued to generate debt, because we had not reached the primary surplus. And while we have reached the primary surplus, the SYRIZA - ANEL government has turned us into the recession and the primary deficits.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u299	Mr. Psarianos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr President. In the short time that I have to place myself on the budget, and because all the figures have been heard, all the numbers, in all versions and in all the visual versions where one can see numbers and have been taken into consideration, all of us, both in the Greek people and in the House, I shall not refer at all to numbers, figures, figures, reductions, increases and measures. I would like, in the short time I have, to be able to read the budget line, one year ago, of Alexis Tsipras, which was twenty-five to thirty minutes, somewhere there. I didn't have the time. I could not make a summary here of the position of the current left-wing Prime Minister of the ANEL - SYRIZA. However, there was no time for the summary, to quote the current Prime Minister's position and arguments as Chief of Officer Responsibility in the last year's budget. It is the eighth budget I take the floor to speak from the 2008 budget at the end of 2007. In a one-sided way I said to any government, to the Papandreou government, to the Karamanlis government, to the Papademos government and to the left government today, to the left, to the right, that this budget and the debate that is taking place, is on a budget that fails, which is not going to achieve the objectives. The numbers will fall out. Everything's gonna fall out. And you know, we tasted all the mushrooms of fairy tales in this country and in this House, in many versions, dark mushrooms, green, shiny, red mushrooms with white boobs, fairy tales. We have heard all fairy tales as Greek people wise. We've eaten all the mushrooms and all the fairy tales. We then find it difficult to admit that we had eaten the 'false', that we 'drung' it, that is, 'false' and 'false'. We're having a hard time. Many still have not admitted fairy tales they ate forty years ago. I do not want to expand, because Transmigration is a very long time but also very fast in modern Greek history. I want to tell you that this story about fairy tales and mushrooms goes on while it should have stopped. I would like to say to you that in every debate on the budget we were here by the three hundred MPs two hundred - two hundred fifty and we were mourning - both from the government and from the opposition and from all parties, whether they were five or seven - who would first speak and arrive on Saturday night when we voted and had not spoken fifty - sixty people. And today, from the Bureau, he was looking for government MPs to talk about the budget and they couldn't find it!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u301	They spoke seventy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u302	Two hours ago there were four people - measured by SYRIZA. For the opposition, for the other parties, I don't care. I'm talking about the government, about the government's budget. Thirty-five, forty, fifty SYRIZA Members have withdrawn from the list and will not be placed because they have nothing to say about it. You're talking about young people, about germans, about mercanisers? Inviting people to go out in the squares, developing a greenhouse of hatred for the sold-out bodies that destroy the country? You don't have much to say. So what do you say now and how do you chew it? Others vote weeping, others vote and then they say that 'I shouldn't have voted for it, but what should I do?', all this stuff. So what else are we going to see in this country? Honestly, I'd like to know, I'd like to look at two or three years, then see how we're gonna be. We'll be much worse than now. We will be a devastated country, unless we decide, friends and comrades, patriots, democrats from all sides - I say again, apart from this fact that it does not want, and apart from the fact that we must not make a programme, a plan for three years, for two years, for four years - that would be the best - that, in order to make a normal country, we must do this and that, institutional changes, political system, electoral law, tax, insurance in a fair way. I could describe to you ways in which it becomes fair. I could tell you about the list of Lagard that we were moving here saying, "You're hiding these things from us and you don't get any money from the lists...". How much did you get? What happened? Where's Mr. Nicoludis? Where are the other Senders of these Left Governments? Where are they going to tell us what happened to the Liechtenstein list, the Lagard list, what happened to the smuggling of fuel and smoke in the traffic? What happened to all these plans? You know, Mr. Simorellis from the Trikala told us that if there was no memorandum, we should invent it, invent it. That's right. We have said this since 2009, since 2010, that this country had to implement a memorandum. Not a memorandum of destruction, cuts and overtaxation, but a memorandum to make the country's governance fair in European contexts, because Europe is the safest political, economic and social system and should go ahead with its completion and not have fragmentary voices and tendencies and various left-wing, right-wing and right-wing parties move the flags of nationalism and Europe's disintegration. Some say that Europe is one of monopolies and interests. Every country separately, what is it? Aren't they monopolies and interests? We need to get this over with the fairy tales. We heard the "Roneskowski", "Standhi", "Lykos and the Seven Katsikaki", "Giannakis and Bessolia", all the fairy tales. The dragons we saw all of them, we met them, the youths, the german germans, the we are calling now in a consensual process and because they come and say that this is not consensus, the others come out the next day and they say that they are some dirty dogs that scream, while the caravan goes on, with the camels, with all the bells. I want to finish by saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u303	With Snow White!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u304	With all the courage, I can finish, right? Thank you, Commissioner. I want to tell you about fairy tales and mushrooms. All mushrooms are eaten, though only a few once!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u305	Mr Kikilias has the floor from New Democracy, and then Mrs Vagonakis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u306	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very rare that during my term of office in the Ministry of Public Order, and now as a Member I have raised the tone. But I must say what the oldest of you - I mean, the ones who have been in the previous Parliament since 2012, as I am - and today you must admit, that populism has an incredible breeze. It's like climbing up a board and taking you away from the wave and feeling invisible, invincible, to be able to promise whatever you want, to anyone you want, to take credit from it, to demolition, to plunder. But, you know, it has short feet, so the books of law admit that above the justice of people, Mr. Tasoula, there is also recompense for justice, commonly the divine trial. We have come today and we are discussing the budget, when you are calling on you to implement a memorandum which results in a debt of 200% of GDP, additional budgetary measures of EUR 5.7 billion, the introduction of new taxes, wage cuts, pensions, ancillarys, single-rate allowances, CSR etc. To close this circle quickly! Indeed, in one of his speeches, Mr Venizelos, in his previous term of office, after your constant disapprovals and vacations in his speech, told you that you have not yet understood what you have to see in front of you, what comes, with what challenges you will face. Near psalm of each other! Excuse me very much, but no one is entitled to take his tail out of a problem that we are facing. Recently, the elections were held. The Greek people have decided, its vote is respected. You rule with the Independent Greeks. That was your choice. Instead of this working pedagogically for you, what we have seen is that there should be an excess of ambiguity, unfortunately the political atrocity, one after the other, of circumstances or political events of the moment coming to confirm what I say, disprove you. For example, how many times in the last five years have you not been accusing yourself, Mr Mardas, and others of your political opponents of any possibility or non-exploitable - political and economic impotence in their positions of responsibility? How many times didn't you raise matters about the Centre on the Right, all of you talking about the left moral advantage? I am not in a hurry to accuse anyone, Mr Stathakis, of any Mr Flavouraris, and I do not accept a priori that before an investigation - but I have to admit, since accounts are opened - one can say that someone is guilty or not. I consider them to be innocent and the presumption of innocence true and alive. I wonder, though, if anyone ever looks out of the investigation that he's guilty, does that break the moral advantage for all of you? We're all supposed to be on the left after that? Ladies and gentlemen, I think that is not the case. On the other hand, I think that there are everywhere in politics, business, society, and good and bad and bad. Our job and our citizens' obligation is to find the exquisite, the worthy, the morals, wherever they belong. So, if that's what you want, the moral advantage was abolished. I have noted the words of the Prime Minister from the budget on 7-12-2014, that is, from the 2015 budget. I'm not going into the process of reading them. Honestly, there's no need. Several things have been heard from what the Prime Minister said a year ago. It's like we've all suffered amnesia a year later. I will note, however, that we are now asked by the party's leader who has politically justified, adopted and covered any political violence and extremism, against his political opponents. I think that, ladies and gentlemen, I find it immoral, because you or you may find yourself in the unpleasant position tomorrow, if your choice is to go as you go and to sign pension and salary reductions in insurance, to suffer this suffering. I don't wish you any more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Can I have a minute, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u307	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u308	Thank you. But that was a reality. Instead of you, with your moral sensations, your left hand mark, if you want, the sense of social justice, to defend fellow Members in Parliament over the last few years, you have rushed to cast them down. The Prime Minister said: "What games you play in collaboration with the troika and the lenders, you will not fool anyone. There is no return road for us.’ That was Thatcher, of course, not Tsipras. Impressive! I return it to him again with Thatcher: "The accident from what seems to be the problem with socialism is that other people's money ends at the end." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. So, unfortunately, because the money of others are over, it is time for judgment and decision, to stop being the government with the money of others and to decide where this country is going to go. Evidently I will vote against the budget and I would like to remind you that you may have to make second thoughts about that night, a year ago, when you did not stand up with a narrow voice and you did not scream: "Stavros Dimas". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u309	Mrs Vayonakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u310	Ladies and gentlemen, the foundation and prerequisite for the recovery of the economy is political stability, but it must be accompanied by an overall political orientation with a social dimension. The 2016 budget contains this very important element. Although it has been shaped in a suffocating financial framework, it has significantly managed to be balanced, realistic, but - and this is most important - to be a more fair budget, which contains a number of redistributive elements. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] With almost zero predictions of a recession, with realisticly low primary surpluses, we have avoided the easy path, the path taken by all the previous governments, that is to say to the well-known cut-off, to embodi the usual underwear, while at the same time leaving the small, medium-sized and complex and further tearing down the social protection and the public character of a series of social goods. Although some difficult measures are included in this budget at the same time, even though some wish to reduce it, the government's care and hard negotiating effort to protect the weak and the most vulnerable social groups. In keeping with the last point, I must recall that, if we had not fought hard, the country would now have to present a surplus of 4.5% rather than 0.5% agreed now, as I said earlier, in a further EUR 7 billion, which is now avoided, at the same time that, for the first time after five years, ninety-five increments will be made in the health sector, while another two and a half thousand will follow after five years, as I said, at the same time as increasing the grant to hospitals by 200 million and public investment by 350 million. So, after five Memorandum years, we have even a small increase in the Public Investment Programme, namely 50 million from own resources and 300 million from the NRP. The most important thing, in my opinion, is that, when all the previous governments did not take care of and did not care to draw up protection policies for social groups that broke down in the years of the memorandum, we are bringing in a budget to which more than EUR 823 million is paid for additional social expenditure. With a card of uninsured and free access to hospitals, with 62m euros to cover uninsured overtime, with extinguishing fines to the public transport to the unemployed for 2010-2015, with free movement to the means for the unemployed and others we seek to alleviate the barbaric consequences of the humanitarian crisis. As I spoke before about small, medium and complex and because 2016 has to be a valuable year in the fight against tax evasion, I note that for the first time in this Chamber, in a budget debate, a government has been involved in serious and investing political capital in the control of tax evasion lists, old and young, deposit control and offshore. In our attempt to increase VAT collection and despite the adversities, the shortcomings in staff, the obstacles and the war we are accepting, we are carrying out a specific operational plan at all levels. Of the six thousand outshore exploitable farms in the country, three hundred eighty-four were checked and taxes of EUR 129.5 million were paid and a vast majority of these checks, three hundred and twenty-one, were carried out in the period 2014-2015. Similar are the numbers and checks on the tax-government lists. Also, data of ten thousand five hundred eighty-eight eighty-eighty Greek bank accounts to a Swiss bank forwarded by the North Rhine-Westphalia tax administration to the Ministry of Finance. This information will be thoroughly audited. They won't go into drawers or travel from flash drive to flash drive. Ladies and gentlemen, 2016 will be a year in which we will fully implement our plan to compensate for the negative social consequences of the agreement on July 12, implementing our parallel programme. It is a year - let us not forget - when the debate on debt restructuring will be opened, which is capable of creating a much better development environment for the country and thus for local and foreign investment, since if we manage and effectively get rid of the hard and budgetary debt, we will be able to talk on other conditions about Greece's development potential. It is therefore clear that the country's financial perspective has changed. This is what various centres and centres see in order to prevent developments and to push for economic governments. But society trusts us, society, no matter how much it is pressed, as much as it lifts weightlessly, is well aware that if anyone can and wants to change the place, he is no more than SYRIZA. With this in mind and with the look we always have to go to society. And not to forget at the moment that 2016 will be hard tested for the pushing ability of wide popular strata. That is why we need to proceed rigorously, with stubbornness and determination to combat tax evasion, the hit on corruption and fairer burden sharing. Only we can do it and we'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u311	Thank you very much. On the basis of the notes I found here in the Chair, the President will now speak, Mr Venizelos. I apologise to Minister Kollia. Mr. Spartinus's name has already been given, so Mr. Spartinus will be precedented. Then Mr. Papachristopoulos. We'll see if one of the ministers wants to talk. I guess Mr. Vitch will talk. We'll get up to date and move on. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u312	Ladies and gentlemen, what is the situation in our country 12 months after the political change in January 2015? What is the situation in our country seventy-five days after the September elections, after all the mistakes have been made in the past eight months and all the overthrows and denials have been made, and after the elections Mr. Tsipras has made the choice of the narrow and morally homogeneous government of SYRIZA - ANEL? The situation is now to be in a legalisation crisis. Crisis to legalize the government from generation, due to false, inconsistencies and ambiguities. Anemomams - devil scissors, the Greek people say. Society is deeply split. Two-thirds, either from pro-European or from anti-contractual, anti-systemic positions, are by definition against the government. The 1/3, which has voted for the government's choice, is in an absolute doubt. He has not understood what is happening to him, what is happening to the country, until his own endurance arrives. We have a crisis in strategy, because the government is unable to present a comprehensive national recovery plan, which incorporates and exceeds the memorandum. The whole argument is a memorial and dry bread. But what memorial of the new ultra memorials? A memorandum providing for 90% tax revenue and only 10% reduction in public expenditure. The second programme, the damn one, had an internal ratio between revenue and expenditure 50-50. We have now returned to a ratio worse than the first Memorandum under the blackmail conditions of the first Memorandum. And what is it that the government is now waiting for? The intervention in debt. I wish, we will help, as long as the truth is accepted, to apologize for lies and to exploit experience, to exploit what we have achieved. Only, unfortunately, the lenders have discounted the forthcoming additional debt restructuring in the country's financial needs assessment, when they signed the third memorandum, the third loan. In relation to structural changes, what is the government asking for? Consensus and support for reformist? No, it calls for a so-called consensus, as I said yesterday, on a national anti-reform demagogy. In other words, we want to lie to the people, that we do not want to reduce pensions, that we do not want anything harmful, but, what to do, we have not been able to achieve it, despite the tough negotiation. In other words, we should support Mr Tsipras in this wide-ranging picture that he is trying to maintain. But, here too, there is a crisis in management, there is inability to rule, there is a dissolution of the state machine. The government has led the country to capital controls and is unable to assess when they will be lifted or when it claims their lifting. What can I say? For the first home auctions? I said 'let's leave it to the banks'. It would be more favourable to regulate the last law. Can I talk about the bank recapitalisation? The damage caused to the Greek state and its portfolio by SYRIZA's attitude, as an opposition that comes to win and as a government, exceeds EUR 28 billion. In order not to talk about insurance, where, under the worst conditions, the structural issue is raised and not just the budget, without any substantial preparation and without any broader plan linking the development project to the country's recovery perspective.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u313	Mr President, would you give me 15 seconds to announce the children in the gallery?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u314	You want to interrupt me?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u316	Please, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u317	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated forty-two students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd Kozani High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u318	Welcome. Thank you, Mr President. Let us rethink today if December 2015 is better for the country since December 2014. When will we return to the December 2014 data? Perhaps in December 2017, i.e., three lost years, though. Of course, I have to conclude that the government is confronted by the situation of counter-population. The New Democracy hopes and hopes that it will find its way and complete the internal-party procedures, but the government, taking advantage of this looseness in Civicism, is making a great effort to intervene in the interior of the Anti-Population parties. I'm not talking about PASOK, where things are easy, where the bad guy is Venizelos for everything, a nail in your eye. But the good Karamanlis and the bad Samaras? The good Leventis, the bad Theodorakis? I could multiply the examples which create a grim picture of 1965, except that the first left, along with ANLE, as an expert on right-wing and right-wing issues, is now trying to attract apostasy. Of course, we have the involvement of the President of the Republic, with the encouragement of the government, in small-scale toys that go beyond the limits of its constitutional role. We also have new problems, such as the unfortunate connection of the memorandum to foreign policy. I hope the Prime Minister took his lesson, after the unfortunate tweets he exchanged with Mr Davutoglu. The linking of the refugee to the memorandum and internal and external security problems creates huge problems for us. Wrong things are said, unequivocally in relation to the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean, in reference to the Greek-Turkish words, where each word, each argument, has their meaning. We measure the words and here we have an irresponsible word diarrhea, while the Greek Prime Minister is next to the Turkish Prime Minister or the Prime Minister of Israel. Not to mention the statements made by the Minister of National Defence, which are accounted for or - to say so specifically - they are accounted for in the country for its foreign policy, in relation to Euro-Atlantic relations, in relation to the common foreign and security policy. What should I first remember? Who's he talking for? And I want to see how the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs dealt with this today at the meeting with Mr Kerry. I'm coming back. In the face of the danger that the country should be expelled from the Schengen Agreement now propose the floating reception, identification and distribution centres on ships leased by the European Union and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, berthed on the Turkish coast, carrying refugees identified in Europe's ports and not enclaving them in Greece, enclaving Greece into the problem. We also have questions of the rule of law very seriously: the case of Panoussis, the question of intercepting, subsidized extortion, threats and interference in justice, which is used by the Government. Repeal of the independent authorities. Extortion in relation to the communication system and absolute indifference to the real economy. What about the investments? Leave the private. What about public investment? What about the completion of privatization? What about the creation of new jobs? And we're still going further one step. What is happening in the field of education, culture, social cohesion and solidarity? Is there something optimistic and creative? Nothing. Zophos, verbal violence, lack of self-criticism, lack of generosity. The place doesn't move like this. Stopping bankruptcy is even, if not worse, both with Grexit and uncomplicated bankruptcy from one point to the next. The Bank of Greece submitted the interim report today. In addition, the Commission considers that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. And we see what will happen with capitals controls, with investments, with climate, with optimism. What does the government say about it? What are the conditions for overcoming? Political condition is there to be a government? No, there's something to do. And, in any case, are you in search of consensus or in search of a majority? Because the question of the majority you face, under Article 37 of the Constitution, is different, and the question of consensus, beyond the majority, which of course requires respect for the truth, in the history of this place, in the contribution of counter-population, not to our own people, but to the people. The Government must understand that it must acquire an adequate management strategy. To be an investment, developmental, reformist government. Will the Tsipra - ANEL Government do that? Let's do it. If he thinks he can move forward, let's move on. Who raises a question of governmental stability? The government. Who powers distance scripts? The government. Who's causing a explosion instead of a consensus? The government. Everything and nothing. Of course, political preconditions are not enough, they also need morals. I mean, the admission of the truth. Acknowledging the reality of our work. Acknowledging that you joined our strategy and implemented it inconsistently and ineffectively. And the institutional requirements are crucial. No institutional pouches. Pichavacism is a very bad counselor. Respect the rule of law, the independence of justice, the independent authorities and real debate on the electoral system, not unclear and vague promises. Equally critical are developmental conditions. The country's development advantages are well known. The question is how we can politically promote them, with which state, with which administration, with which political system. But also with which banks, which, unfortunately, have undermined them, creating political uncertainty. What about the NRW? What is the debate on the integrated solution for insurance, which takes into account both the level of real economy and the tax system and private insurance and the professional funds. In total, the pensioner’s income was repaid before becoming a pensioner. And, of course, we must have a proper, comprehensive debate on the internal balance of the memorandum. Of course we voted at first to stay the country in Europe and in the euro. That is what we voted on on 14 August. We have not voted for this ratio of measures in the memorandum, which by definition is a violation of the country's efforts. In the end, national preconditions must stop these unscrupulous planning in foreign and security and defence policy, the refugee issue. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, the history of this place did not begin either in January 2015 or September 2015. The history of this place has begun much earlier, without you and will continue after you. When you realize that, then we will be able to have a serious debate in this House on where the nation is and where the nation goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u319	Before I give the floor to Mr Spartino, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read Mr Savvas Anastasiades' letter, which seeks permission from a few days' absence abroad. "To the President of the Greek Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsi. Please give me a few days' absence permit abroad for personal reasons, from Monday 7 December to Friday 11 December. Yours sincerely Savvas Anastasiades.’ Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u320	The House approved the requested permission. Here, Mr. Spartin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, here we are, where the 2016 budget is introduced by the SYRIZA and ANEL government, which many, especially the New Democracy and the PASOK have tried to prevent. If we consider how much political time they have spent, how many tacticals they have tried, how many and what instruments they have used, it could argue that this fact is in itself, apart from the logic of budget formation itself, another political defeat for them after the election defeats. Today, everyone is aware that this budget is not a budget for parentheses, because other budgets will be followed by the same government. But in the pit of parentheses they were digging, they have fallen themselves today. The New Democracy is trapped in the parentheses of the transition leadership, which lasts months and is evident when and especially how it will close, obliging it to move within a cloud of political and tactical and to replace political confrontation with opposition peaks of despair and bitterness, apparently due to the loss of power. But both the PASOK and the Potami are also locked in their own parentheses. Political discomfort, lack of strategy, improvisation of tactics. If, ladies and gentlemen, a well-appointed person today fell in our country from the moon, he could rightly make criticisms, objections and objections to the proposed budget. However, neither of us nor any of us have fallen from the moon nor, of course, the MPs and members of the parties who have been ruling for many years, even though at times they want to be aliens. They are well aware of the current situation, because it is their creation that has brought society into despair, and have put in this year's budget restrictions and obstacles - I would say - without contempt, without regret, so that all social needs can be fully met. This budget is not too much a child of the need to get out of the misappropriations that have led us to securely and also discriminatoryly in favour of the weak. His data and results have been presented in detail by other colleagues and ministers and I will not repeat them. However, the current state of the economy and society is not just due to the policies implemented in the years of the crisis. It is due to previous policies, the eras of virtual well-being, the displaying consumerism, stock market gambling, easy enrichment, the stickers and the pillars of the client state. When the rulers of the time boasted for the building of the modern state and the strong economy, which in the first wind of the crisis proved to be a table paper tower. At the time when structural changes could take place, no cost to society, but they were not done, because they had a cost to the political capital of the then rulers. The last capitalist crisis hit many countries, but no society was seen as much as the Greek one. This has proved to be the case, ladies and gentlemen of PASOK and of the New Democracy, uncompetitive. And you come today to mourn for the destruction of the success story that you had built with your budgets, the results of which your budgets are trying to heal today's budget. Your budgets that imposed the continuous reductions in wages and pensions of 40%. The budgets, not only of unemployment, but of redundancies, which considered redundancies to be the drug to overcome the crisis and for every single civil servant to create multiple numbers of people made redundant in the private sector. The budgets for horizontal measures, tax injustice, the disappearance of the state's social functions, disinvestment, the decline in the Public Investment Programme, the constantly discredited estimates for private investment. The budget proposed by the government is not a miraclemaker. It is, however, starting for a development process and a social designation, it is practicable and budgetaryly balanced. That's why we're going to vote for him, despite the communal ramp that systemic media and cries of awkward counterpopulation. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, as many of you as - not all of you - are trying to terrorize us, the members of the SYRIZA, for our vote by pointing us on the finger, let me know one piece of advice: do not in vain! We're not here to behave with political fireplaces or build political careers. We come both individually and collectively from the streets and know where we want to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u322	Minister Kollia has the floor. Because of the pre-service to the Bureau, instead of seven, it will have ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u323	And because of Macedonia - Thrace another five! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the oldest of us, those of us who have remained, beyond weight and responsibility for our mistakes and our omissions, have an advantage: we are in a position to withdraw from our minds attitudes, choices and behaviours and, at the same time, the burden of all of them today to promote self-evidentness, which is the common, simple logic. This is what the country needs today, and especially through this budget debate, we need to agree on it. Does anyone believe that the problems are only budgetary, that they are related only to our country's borrowing capacity or to our international credibility? Does anyone think that after six years of crisis and memorial, we're going to get through everything once we get out on the infamous markets? I don't believe it, and you do. The crisis that we are going through has a universal and cumulative character and the only word that can express its depth and width is 'decay'. Genitality and migration determine our future. The lack of concrete, tangible and clear initiatives threatens our very existence. With regard to the budget proposal, I am obliged, as my responsibility, to highlight the particularly important issues to be included in economic planning, which is the state's annual budget being discussed. Our particular needs of Macedonia and Thrace, which nowadays are facing problems, require serious attention and full attention and the creation of a framework of economic measures. Macedonia and Thrace are currently accepting a large part of the overall refugee problem. In Macedonia and Thrace there is the overwhelming proportion of our country's earthly border and almost all exit gates of refugees and ambitious economic migrants. It is therefore absolutely essential that there should be measures for the uninterrupted provision of the necessary goods to refugees, but also for the strengthening of the inhabitants of regions facing unprecedented problems because of the situation in almost all areas. I am not going to talk about shutting down the railway as much as that means. I have emphasised several times recently that the possibility of further problems being created for the population should be avoided vertically. Be careful, I say 'population' and I do not distinguish between the Greek population or the refugee population. Because in such a case they will have social tensions which, given world conditions, may prove particularly damaging. I stress that any increase in the unemployment rate, especially in the specific regions of Macedonia and Thrace, multiplys social shock and can lead to social deregulation. The depopulation of the outermost regions, which comes from the previous periods, is present, the risks are taken into account, and the question is whether it will be reversible or not and how. Adequate employment, work and survival conditions for the inhabitants of the regions, both permanent and temporary, are essential to prevent stress, while on the contrary we can see what will happen if the guests and hosts in the border areas are faced with problems of day-to-day survival. The second and important issue I would like to raise and take into account the economic planning of 2016 is the treatment of natural phenomena affecting northern Greece, due to its geographical characteristics. As an example, the flooding of the Prefecture of Evros, Serres Prefecture and other counties of northern Greece, due to the downsizing of water from the mountains of Bulgaria and the basins of water supply in these prefectures, is one example. In any case, economic planning is required, which takes into account the specific features and requirements of the problem and will form a basis for discussion of the respective contributions, capital and work that our neighbours must do, so that the problem can be resolved. As in other parts of Greece, I would suggest to the region of western Macedonia - because there is a need - to create a three-national trade conflict, so as to make the most of the comparative advantages of this region. The specific features of the problems identified in Macedonia and Thrace require specific decisions. However, there are other important problems, such as the lack of research and business centres for the hatching and support of unprecedented enterprises. The activation of the "Alexandria of Innovation Zone" will surely contribute to the maximum in this direction. On the other hand, the success of the HELEXPO International Exhibition and the relevant institutions around it, which, with appropriate planning, can produce multiple economic results from what they already offer and need to take seriously and carefully into account the economic planning for the new year, especially when in the next general report of September Russia is the honorable state. Ladies and gentlemen, young people are today disappointed by what we have not given them in previous years. They expect us to rebuild the vision for a better Greece. They await the one and great idea that will inspire them and that will function as the headline for the regeneration of Hellenism. That is why we must agree in advance for every project. The wish and curse they give us is finally to agree on a common policy, which will lead the country together to hope and leave all the things that separate us behind, all that do not allow us to agree on self-evident, unfortunately even today. Opportunities, however, ladies and gentlemen, are minimised. Many hopes have been invested in this government, even by people who have not voted for it. As I have also informed the Minister of Interior, the State Secretary of Macedonia - Thrace is making every effort to strengthen his area of responsibility, but also his area of nominal responsibility, which is Macedonia and Thrace. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have to deal with a small budget for the State Secretary and one for this - you will allow me to say - indifference by the forces of the centre. This in no way exists, of course, and it is not intentionally done, but it is a bad tradition of the Greek state that we must change. The data limit the scope of the initiatives that we can take ourselves and the initiatives taken by our State Department are limited, beyond its limited powers, mostly in actions implemented by the bodies supervised by it - and I have already mentioned some of them before - and by their participation in transnational and cross-border programmes. But we will not stop fighting with any means at our disposal. In memoranda I have presented from time to time, I stress and document the necessity but also the clear position of the HMD, to assume a series of increased responsibilities as a regional government body in the country. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that 2016 can be a year when the forces which are currently in relative inertia will be liberated. And in order to help them, we must give them a clear impetus, a clear direction, things that are the essence of central planning and the budget being discussed. The ERM will, of course, actively contribute to the implementation of the government's development planning and support for the country's and northern Greece's productive reconstruction. And in order to achieve our goals, we ask our vision to be taken seriously into account at all levels of state and social planning, because so coordinates and clear targets, I am sure we will succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u324	Thank you. In order to avoid two Members from the same party, knowing that I will have the consent of Mr Papachristopoulos, I call on Minister Vitsa in Stepa. A warm request to the cabinet. If, apart from Mr. Vitsa, there's another colleague, we need to be informed, because otherwise after Mr. Papachristopoulos, we're closing for tonight. Also, if it is, call Mrs. Fotio. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr President. Because of the Mountain Naval, any more time?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u326	Don't worry!
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u327	More as a joke, because from what I've seen, Mrs. Kollia was much better prepared. First of all, I would like to point out one thing in relation to how public debate is taking place. I read on a valid information site this morning something that I want you to judge. Title: ‘Purpose values. Reductions in precise areas, increases in cheapest.’; What's your conclusion? That this government is doing something wrong, especially the Ministry of Finance. I read after the text following this title: "In a reduction of the objective values of real estate in most parts of the country, the leadership of the Ministry of Finance has been going on since next year. The new objective values are expected to be reduced to average levels of up to 45% in Attica and up to 39% in the rest of Greece, according to information collected by the "ELDREROS". In very few areas, objective values should be increased, as they remain below market prices, despite the crisis.’ What's your conclusion? Now put this on for the red loans, for the protection of first residence, and let's go by saying. But we must restore the political debate and that is what I am particularly interested in. And in trying to restore - and I will say nothing else about the Opposition, it is not even about the Civic Opposition most - there is an interesting notebook, both double and at the same time, in this year's budget debate. Many and many of you, both from Communism and Opposition, have pointed out in this debate that it is the first budget that it is drafting, calling for the vote and that the government should have the left-wing government executed. The other side of the same currency modern and self-evidently tells us that it has been the first budget for decades that neither the New Democracy nor the PASOK have participated today as part of the Democratic Partnership. Does this call the 'legalisation judgment' of the former President of PASOK? I would say 'a childish person because of his loss'. However, the Greek people twice chose in 2015 a change of page. And we know that we are on a difficult path. And we know today that we have a real budget before us, which recognises reality as it is, and draws the way to a reality as we want it to be, and that is why we are working, the Government, SYRIZA, the Independent Greeks and the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. Today, in these two months of this government, we are implementing the first three steps. We have completed the prerequisites, we have disbursed the 2 billion that will primarily strengthen health and education, but it will also be an injection of first relief into the internal market. We ensure the stability of the banking system, in order to respond to its role as a tool of development effort, and in a way that requires much less, that is to say, just that of the budgets. This can only be achieved as a success. Then, of course, we start talking. In a similar procedure, I remember that the fact that foreign funds were coming was viewed as a vote of confidence in the government's efforts. Now it's a sale. All right, we lost the opportunity to watch PASOK and New Democracy say how undevelopmental and how material the budget of one another is, which was until 2012, but we have not lost our memory. The third step is the issue of debt management. I won't insist on that. We know that, unless the short debt is solved, no matter what we achieve and as a government, it will be temporary and, in any case, unstable. With debt sustainable and manageable, then the economy can open up new roads and our society can come out of the vicious cycle of crisis. Is the budget enough? I say, no. We need a fair tax system, we need a development law and a social economy law, so that we can first complete the growth puzzle with a social sign. This is where I want to put another dimension. And growth has a fine. Because from development we have lived many in this country, but they have had a certain sign, and it was the basis of the crisis that followed, and I will say two things about it. I would like to highlight a number of issues concerning the Ministry of National Defence. First of all, we know that we can rely on the people of the Armed Forces. I want to assure you that the economic crisis and its results have not reduced to a minimum the credibility, mind and worthy of the army. The Greek Armed Forces are fully aware of their mission and we must all be proud of their level. We must all stand with confidence in the Armed Forces and their staff. In order for everyone and everyone to understand the situation in the defence sector, however, I would like to quote the following elements: In the pay category from 2009 to 2015 we had a 35% reduction. In the operational part of the budget at the same time, the reduction reached 60% both in equipment, namely the purchase of equipment and maintenance and repairs, and the reduction in the same period ranged - correctly - to 68%. Of course, I have with me the budgets of all years from 2001 to 2015 and indeed, when someone sees these reductions, he will say "many reductions". And it's like that. But what did 2,2 billion need for the equipment programs in 2008? What did 2 billion need for the equipment programs only for this part in 2009? And, of course, what do we need to write numbers that we do not perform? Do we need them? There is a big question on this issue. We were invited to deal with this unfavourable, difficult situation with the military leadership. However, I would like to note: by taking a budget drawn up in 2014 for the Ministry of National Defence, we have implemented the entire budget and since we have reduced it by 100 million on the basis of what the previous governments had signed in the medium term. And we have done this to produce a continuously better work. Where have we now found what has been said here about a huge new reduction, about huge new cuts, when they do not take into account that we have the capacity and have the opportunity to shape this situation, so that we can also have a new reduction in the equipment programme in the new year, but do we fully implement the entire process that we have decided and followed, and indeed in cooperation with the military leadership, so that the reductions in these appropriations can be absorbed together with the General Staff? Where did it sound that we didn't pay the frontier allowance? Only in the sphere of imagination of those who call it, because our people in the Armed Forces know that. And where has it been heard that we are not paying 50% of the sums that the Council of State has done? And I say today that by turning the clock of the economy, turning the engine of the economy and the remaining 50% will be paid. So together with the General Staff we have solved these issues. We're going ahead with specific logic. When we say 'the Armed Forces, the Defence, which can handle it', we are talking about three basic things: national, defence, industrial strategy. The Act provided for this in 2011. It never happened. Who didn't? Secondly, we are talking about reorganisation which does not mean reduction, which means greater efficiency. Thirdly, we are talking about care. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] And I would just like to mention - as it took me time - something that will be done next month, the defence industry. In the revised law on the supplies of the Armed Forces, which I must tell you that everyone calls it 'the law on the non-procurements of the Armed Forces' - in the sense that we were the only country that took the Community directive and made it the way it was, while it provides for exceptions, which Poland has done, and now is the seventh country in Europe - in this law, there will therefore be an explicit provision that the country will claim domestic industrial participation by the candidate suppliers under European law - in particular the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union - if it has no other means of developing and maintaining its sectors. This is how we combine the state defence industry with the private defence industry and the possibility that military factories have. Finally, the next time - it has already been tabled in the House - will there be a bill that solves matters relating to care. Here we will always resolve - I hope forever - the issue of military rupture or otherwise 'pipe'. We describe a planning and implementation of the transfer of soldiers so that there is a moleculosis system that will enhance both transparency and democracy and solve social problems. But we also have a social offer. In agreement with the Ministry of Health, those doctors who have finished and go to the Army, at the cost of the Ministry of Health, in the sense that they will be paid by the Ministry of Health, will make their countryside - and they will count on it - where the issue is not solved by now. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We will do the same with lawyers working in legal offices. And this will be measured in the exercise of a profession. And we are still moving forward so that we can resolve these issues with other professions, scientifically or otherwise. Finally - because we will also discuss them in this draft law, which I hope we can vote together and become a law - we will resolve chronological issues concerning the unscrupulous with the huge fines, which prevent our own children and excellent scientists from going back to Greece, doing their duty, but they can also offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u328	Thank you, Minister. I hope, however, that you will mean the barren agricultural doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u329	Of course. The Department of Health will choose them.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u330	Because I've lived it, let's say it's in the Minutes. The barren farm doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u331	Here's my answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u332	I support the measure, but I stress it. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin, I would like to ask the President of Parliament, who I would like to believe is one of the best Members of Parliament ever had, to find a way for the Members to be present. Of course, 'not in much of it, but in much of it.' We are few - and many hours are few these three days - and you need to find a way - I think you will manage - the Members are present. That's a request, nothing else. I want to start differently. Fresh, today's news: Mario Draghi opens a window for quantitative relaxation. I was one of them - perhaps it sounded a little strange - that within the four development packages I put all three billion a month, i.e. around 36 per year in our country since Mario Draghi's quantitative relaxation. It's news today, and I don't think anyone will question it. Another positive news today is the ELA's 7.8 billion for the good situation of banks. I want to continue with positive news and say that - I say it again - I get a bit bite in this Chamber sometimes and I say 'I have been destroyed and I have not understood it'.' I'll be honest. I would like to remind you that, in February, debt regulation is being discussed, whether or not it has a positive outcome. I'm waiting. I think he will. I have listened very carefully to Mr Tsakalotos for 15% and under the conditions that he must have. Furthermore, to enter into our logic that there is a great chance at the end of 2016 - you want not at the end of 2016, at the beginning of 2017, in the middle of 2017, I should go and a little back, not to be etherists - to go to the markets, with simply Greek that no longer will be imposed on us what to do in this country. I would also like, by continuing - and I am talking about reality and not fantasy of my own or my own assessments - to say that the recapitalisation of the banks has almost been completed and has worked very decisively for the decisions of European creditors. I am sorry to see that, since for a long time the opposition played with Panousida and did not come out, she played with the auctioning of the first home and did not come out - I am sorry to say it - he played with corruption - two ministers who arranged stories in Congress and did not come out, he has invested in proving that the recapitalisation of the banks is the new scandal. I just want to remind you that the 'private' shares, which the country had so far and sent a representative to the banks, almost had no impact, because they had no right to vote, let us say, at the shareholders' meeting, nor to determine the bank's policy nor anything. Of course, the percentage of cards was around 55% to 65%. I say that, because I hear, like, screams great. Today, which is not so much the amount, it is from 11% to around 30% - and it is not about Eurobank, it is about the other three - it is entitled by the representative of the State, the Financial Stability Fund, to have a veto in politics and administration, particularly in the shareholders' assembly. To see whether it is a scandal or not, I must also remind you that the Bank of Greece has not complained, Mr Stournaras, the bankers have not said a word and, above all, those who were supposed to lose their money, the entrepreneurs have not made the kich. So I let it be rethinked by colleagues, because I see it reproduced and said so. I would also like to say that the bank shares have in fact been close to zero. Should we think about how exactly and what image did the banking system give for years with sea-loving, with the underlying bankers, me, me? I want to stop here and go to the most recent and say: we have an explosive problem with the refugee. Recently a deal was made. I'm not an ether. I am not sure whether Turkey will accept and finally implement the terms of this agreement. But I think it was a necessary step. I am one of those who have literally been - forgive me the expression - I have been screaming for years. Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon have four million refugees in their territories. Turkey has more than two million refugees. You can't ignore her, whatever opinion you have on this country. It is a profit, I believe, for Greece and for Europe with the prospect of Turkey joining - which I believe is right - that visas will no longer be needed for these countries and - most important of all - to discuss for the first time that identification can be held on the coasts of Asia Minor. He's breathing for us. Because, I am sorry, we have a geographical position like this, which, from the two hundred and eighteen thousand immigrants, has gone through our country. I want to believe that the Schengen risk will not find any other supporters. What the Prime Minister of Hungary, Slovenia and Slovakia has been doing for a long time is not new. I have listened with great respect to Eliza Vozenberg, who is a Member of the New Democracy. No one has the opportunity to get us out of the Schengen Treaty - and I'm closing it here - and we're not going out. I would like to say two words about the insurance, which is indeed a potential hydrobomb and has been very busy - and good for everyone and everything. It's a national matter. I don't see negative, I have another perspective. When the political leaders gathered - it's all right, they're convincing like young children - in fact I think they all agreed that the main pensions and pensions in general should not be bothered. I want here to remind you of three things. We don't have a lot of guns. One of them is sincereness. If nothing happens now - you all know that in this Chamber and the best economists - in four years there will be no pensions for anyone. If this is an exaggeration, beg me. Secondly, in Denmark they work five to retire one. The average in Europe is four to one. In our country, with a unemployment rate of 25%, 26% or 27%, one is working to retire another. If that's not an explosive problem, what is it? Does that really not want an agreement at national level? I sincerely believe that, firstly, all the 17 billion left over from the recapitalisation of the banks - they were 25 billion and only needed 5.9 billion - and the other options I hear from my friend Andreas Nefedudes and from the finance ministers can really solve this problem. And I think they will solve it, I think it will be a pleasant surprise - remember what I am saying to you - that I think we will pass it through this Chamber. And don't forget it's a hard times. Indeed, the market is squeezing. The world is poor. We may live the hardest reality since the war. It's a time for hardcore, determined, and, above all, conscious politicians. I want to believe we have them. Those of us here in this Chamber would like the best. The question is what we can and above all what we can be honest. I would also like to say something about the word 'automatic'. He's gone missing from this Chamber. Yes, there have been mistakes. Yeah, they made the wrong choices. Yeah, overreacted. It's not bad to say it and admit it. We appreciated it that way. We didn't rule for three hundred years. This is the first time the government has ruled. Mistakes don't do those who do nothing. One thing will not be forgiven by the Greek citizen, because he knows very well, as much as a desperate, terrible attempt is being made to convince us that the first seven months and the two months of the present day have brought destruction to the country. Five elections, and they were not convinced of that. I believe that the historian of the future, when things calm down, will not give SYRIZA the three thousand uninsured either one million below the poverty line nor 25% of unemployment, or the three hundred thousand people who have left abroad, nor the incredible corruption and strife that we have lived with in the last forty years. Then - and I want to be honest about this - things will be suppressed and the time of truth will come. I think it's a unique opportunity, maybe it's the last chance. I want to talk about something, because I heard confusion again. Again: Insane Prime Minister, who makes a referendum to lose it, does not exist. There's no historical precedent on this planet. Even Nero, when he burned Rome, had something in mind. I hear the banks are closed down on our own. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do I have a minute? I know it's a loose day anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u334	It's four more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u335	The President is a bartender! Go ahead, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u336	I hear them say with great passion that Tsipras closed the banks. That night - I'll say again - it's not all that happened. There's more going on. We heard that we were losing the testimonies and people fell over to advertise the "yes" from morning to night. I do not know how comfortable the people who were saying 'yes' are feeling. Can I say something? It was a historic election campaign, because the word 'parenthood' was forgotten by everyone around the planet. It had to be a referendum, and we were really all blocked when the banks closed down, but when I saw Tsipras and the Burned determined, even with closed banks going, we joined together. It was a victory of democracy that night, a great victory of democracy. Because other things are coming out, how 'no' became 'yes', I will say that that evening, July 13th, and one month after we voted here, we all knew that the terms of the game imposed them as possible. For many decades we have become a weak link, and that is what I have been criticising in old parties and no one else. We were the weak link we had to play with ten million Greeks at that time. I am proud to say this sincerely - and I am not apologizing, and I have no apologies for this 'yes', because it was a 'yes' of the country's survival at that time. I hear they say: 'After we brought memorials and you blamed us.' Can I say something, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation? I wouldn't have said anything personally if we hadn't seen what we saw during your administration. Remember how six companies took all the projects? Remember the lists hidden in elbows and disappeared? Remember the overpricing of the Olympic Games? Remember the 8% of natural persons from the 'SIEMENS' and 2% of the parties, which, after nine years, are now coming to Parliament? I would remind you of the way in which the sea loans were given, because I have heard many times 'to say apologise', I have listened to the word 'fraud'. You want to say sorry? What should you, ladies and gentlemen - fortunately not all - say about the incredible corruption and strife that brought the country here that brought it? I'm a sorcerer of the fact that it's your fault and I don't want to go back to the past. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say this: it is easy to sit outside the yard and rock. It's hard to get in and solve the problem. I feel proud to be through the yard. Yeah, I hear bad words on the street, that I'm a traitor and stuff. Finally, I would like to advise all three hundred colleagues in the House: Alexis Papachelas, who writes in a newspaper that only does not say well about us, wrote an article a month ago: "The end of time". I would ask that we all read it and read it many times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u337	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being held from the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the Parliament is organised and operated, forty-two members from the Greek VENIZELOS VENIZELOS. Of course, as I see you, you're probably from a youth center. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're on our way to the end. There is only Mr Theocharis, who I will not give him all the denunciation, because tomorrow I will tell him that he has exhausted the time and he will be shouting. Mr. Theochari, you will now have two thirds of your time, to have a margin for tomorrow, if necessary. Come to Stepma, Mr. Theochari. I, following the steps of our President, Mr Voutsi, do not follow past practices. I am not making any comment, and I am not even referring to my personal view. I will make a slight derogation tonight to say that as a citizen and as a Member I do not think the President of the Republic has exceeded his constitutional duties. On the contrary, I would say that he is doing so well. [[Applause]] Mr. Theochari, I give you six minutes. Do you get enough?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u338	Yeah. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u339	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u340	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we said about the weaknesses in the budget, about the lies, the mistakes and the problems it has. For example, ELSTAT's provisional data on its hands have been changed. They are talking about much worse recession and we are discussing a budget based on wrong figures. The country needs to be relaunched, to think about reforms from the beginning. I have already proposed ten points for the relaunching of Greece and the exit from the crisis, institutional interventions on the one hand for the Constitution, justice, the public sector, corruption, but also financial interventions for budgetary, investment, education and culture, the social state and the insurance system. Not only that, but we are making concrete proposals, such as for the vignita, such as for a new disability classification system for people with disabilities who really look at whether they have specific problems, such as whether they need help to do the basic functions, and so they categorise everyone exactly where they should. All this must be done if we want to be a favoured society. That must be our goal, our children at last live in a society that is favoured, much better than ours. The reform should also begin from the budget, of course, to have a report outlining a strategy, not a stitching text from the various services, bricks and horns, i.e. the purpose and what the government wants to do at its base for next year, and obviously also to give some toast for the years ahead. Where, let's say, the government's strategy for development, for refugees, for social security agencies, for privatizations, is not just to list how much it will do, but what is the strategy, what is the thread that binds all the actions to be taken by the government. Let us say, although the government tells us that social policy is a priority, we see in hospitals reductions in revenues, reductions in the EEA, the state grant. The figures must be buttoned in the budget. You are talking about saving 500 million in defence expenditure, and we are seeing a reduction in the figures of 200 million. So we must start from all this and do a better job for the government and discuss this here in the House. Today the Governor of the Bank of Greece took the interim monetary policy report. What's he saying? He's demanding consent from the political system. Here the responsibilities - I said yesterday - are mainly yours and because you have the knife, you have the watermelon. You're the government. He's asking for effectiveness. Efficacy is missing. I've told you many times. What's he saying? In fact, if you look at the two texts, the budget and the report, it is as if they are two different worlds. He said the book: "Men are from Mars and women from Venus". Like this. No increase in tax rates. On page 75 we say an increase in income tax rates for legal persons, an increase in the advance payment of free professionals, an increase in the tax on farmers. No increases in social security contribution rates. What do we say on page 108? Increasing the revenues of the Funds to 350 million, that is to say, just the backwards from what the report tells us. Reduction of non-productive public expenditure, evaluation of bodies, review of the existence of many of them. What does it say on page 123? Wage interventions, pensions, allowances, not non-productive expenditure. On page 125, eighty-two companies are not listed, twenty-seven of them being wound up. For years they've been dragging, and it's a sore wound we can't shut it down. What does the Bank of Greece's report request? Removal of exemptions from taxation and social security. Wait. We're waiting for a budget that will do it. They're not mentioned anywhere. I wish the implementing laws would come and do so. Our report calls for the use of public property and for the acceleration of privatizations. The draft budget for 2015 said that EUR 5.363 billion has been committed so far. The introductory article of 2016 says 5,369 billion euros. Zero to clay in 2015. In 2016 we will have the same projects we had in 2014 and 2015. I am going to another topic, which is the scandal of the banks, the scandal of the Financial Stability Fund. I'd like to explain it so people can figure out what's happened. We valued Piraeus Bank 18 million euros. This is the end of this situation. Eurobank's shares sold EUR 0.30 and yelled for exams and scandals. Today, one minute, what are we supposed to say? The value of Alpha fell 91%, 99% of Piraeus, 96% of the EIB, 95% of Eurobank. You passed L.4340 on 1 November, which said that the CFSF can accept the price of the tender book. Twenty days later, before the tender book, you said: "Obligation to accept any price." The Greek investors will not take part in the public sector. The equivalent would be before the sale of the Greek would pass a law obliging TIADE not to have a price limit and to have everything they say to accept, that is to say, that it does not have the ability to say that this price is too small. This is the scandal that has taken place with the votes of your own, ladies and gentlemen. I close by saying that I spoke yesterday about Schengen. Schengen is not just a border. It is also EUROPOL that, if we go out, we will find it hard to put our own order back in. No more permanent than the provisional. On 3 December the Government submitted a request for assistance from rapid action units for recording and identifying at our border and north. We shouldn't identify ourselves on the paper as we do now. We have to have machines. This problem shows amateurism and criminal negligence, as we did not demand the activation of logistical support from the European Union until 3 December. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget does not come out. It says in it yourself that you had an increase in tax evasion in 2015. We will need new measures, after you ask for an increase in revenue in a time of recession. These new measures, society will not be able to withstand them. I'm afraid not either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u341	He has asked for the floor - obviously to answer Mr Theocharis - Mr Tsakalotos. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u342	Mr Theocharis, first of all the words 'a committee of inquiry' have never been heard from my mouth. But since you're talking about scandals and you're saying what the other one is, and if it's scandalous, I'll explain to you what the government had with the privileged shares, and I'll ask you a question, a quiz, a puzzle, to answer tomorrow, or I'll answer you. We had two extreme solutions for the privileged shares. We could do what the law said, that is, if you want to, turn them into the average of the price of the last 12 months. The other solution, if we wanted to turn them, was to turn them into the price that came out of the offer books. We have said that neither will we. Because if we did the first, there would be a very great risk of our shares falling very much. If we did the second, i.e. the price that came out of the offer book, there was a great risk that other individuals would not enter, that is to say, to prevent individuals from entering and not covering the basic scenario for all four banks. What did we do? Because I imagine your goal isn't not to have foreign money, investors. We said we wouldn't turn them, so we wouldn't change the law that was in the last 12 months, because anyway, we wouldn't turn them into shares and we said to be part of the bail in. The quiz for you - and you know it's a large number - is how much we gained from this decision, bail in shares, compared to whether we had done the price with the average of the last 12 months. Do you know what that number is? Can you imagine? When you imagine it, and when you find it, I hope you will come and apologize to me personally, to apologise to the House for this populism. Because you know we didn't have many choices and you'll find out - since you don't know - how much the Greek people won this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u344	Mr. Theochari, wait a minute. He's in anyway. For tomorrow, the President deliberately said to me: 'Kitta, let us go at 15.00', because a small fight will take place, that the general rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives should answer if they want to say a word'. So you'll have the time. So hold your momentum for tomorrow not to lose the saspense.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u345	I would just like the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u346	Well, just a minute and we'll close. And don't start personal reports and Mr. Chakalotos asks me again.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u347	No, no. Mr President, he knows that too. I have mutual sympathy.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u348	Well, if you didn't have mutual sympathy, then I wonder.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u349	So I have no problem making personal reports, and I'm sure I won't apologize. I said you asked for a committee of inquiry. I did not speak personally to the Minister. I said SYRIZA was requesting a committee of inquiry. And if he hadn't asked for a committee of inquiry, when there was a previous private involvement in 0.30, then we should go to the Minutes and see. But I think all the Greek people know.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u350	After he turned into a probationary.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u351	What I said is this: when you have a private person, there is no reason why the Minister should explain it to us, because other things I have said to him, he has answered me with the quiz. We'll look at the quizes and look at them. But what matters is this: When a Priori in FEK, which the whole world knows, you have forced the stock seller to accept any sale price, then you put this seller in dezavantez. That is not to say that it would necessarily increase our prices, but, in any case, in an open process, a market process cannot keep the public with both hands tied behind his back when he goes to sell some shares. That's what we asked for.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u352	Mr President, I would like the floor for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u353	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u354	I repeat the question: How much did the Greek State gain from the decision to do what you say we should not do? That's the question. You said that what we did wasn't supposed to do and I'll answer you tomorrow - unless you apologize before - how much the Greek State won this decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u355	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2015-12-04-S1-commons.u356	With the consent of the House at 18.20 a meeting is closed for tomorrow, Saturday, December 5, 2015 at 13.30, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: Continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "State Budget 2016".
