ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u1	Minister, I tabled these questions a long time ago in connection with the incident in which a kitten from Peru was improperly brought into our country. I am aware that there are very strict directives on the import of animals, especially from countries where the very dangerous disease of rabies is still present. The only mitigating circumstance in this case was the hasty departure of the cat's owner as a result of the corona crisis, so that the mandatory waiting period in the country of origin could not be respected. The question I wanted to ask at the time was whether there was no alternative in Belgium to the euthanasia of the cat, which was proposed by the BFSA as the only option. Was there no possibility, for example, of organising a quarantine in Belgium? A second question I had put on this subject was to get a better view of the situation regarding rabies in Belgium. Has there ever been a quarantine center in our country before? If so, why is there no more? Do you think that's necessary? Have there been similar incidents in the last ten years? If so, how much? How many times has one have to go to euthanasia, return or isolation of the animals? How come no border controls were carried out? Why wasn't that student stopped at the time? Was TRACES or the Trade Control and Expert System put into operation? Finally, when was the last case of rabies found in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u2	I understand that Mr Gilissen is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u3	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, because I am committed to animal rights, I have taken various initiatives in this area. However, I would like to point out that certain media have put forward many untruths in this matter. For example, it has been reported that Peru is not affected by rabies, that alternatives existed in Belgium or that the BFSA had not studied all alternatives. That's not right. First of all, I would like to reiterate that rabies is a deadly disease that causes 55,000 human victims worldwide every year. Man can be infected by simply being licked by an animal. Only in case of treatment, which must be initiated within 48 hours of infection, can the disease be cured. The disease is fatal in almost one hundred percent of cases. The BFSA has also pointed out to me that the incubation period of rabies can reach one year. The vaccine does not allow to cure an already infected animal. No test will make it possible today to determine whether a live animal is infected. However, the outcome of this dossier is positive, first and foremost for the animal. Fortunately, the Peruvian authorities have finally changed their minds and agreed to take back the cat in question. The animal must not be the victim of the irresponsible behaviour of its new owner. By the way, the latter will receive a fine of EUR 1,600 from the BFSA for having brought an animal completely illegally from a region where rabies is endemic. It is also positive news for respect for the law and therefore for human and animal health. There was no possibility that public health would be exposed to a risk of rabies infection. The last two cases of rabies in dogs and cats in Belgium date back to 2000 and 2008, following the illegal import of dogs from Morocco. I would like to take advantage of your questions to remind you that irresponsible behaviour like that of Mrs Ali is all too common. Between 2015 and 2019 277 animals had to be returned to their country of origin. 848 could be regularized, but unfortunately 65 had to be euthanized by this irresponsible attitude. Before the departure of Mrs Ali from Peru with this cat from a risk region, the BFSA had clearly informed her about the possible options for the reception and regularisation of kittens. On her arrival at the airport, however, Mrs Ali did not offer her cat to the customs control. It should be noted that in the case of non-commercial imports of an animal from a third country, the passage through a border inspection post and a check on the documents and identity of the animal are required. Pets enter the territory via a passenger access point. It is therefore the customs authority responsible for the control of these pet animals. As you know, customs is the responsibility of my colleague from the Treasury. While, as I said, it is positive that the cat could return to her country in good health, I want to ensure that in future appropriate transit and quarantine facilities will follow the example of the Netherlands. It is not up to the government to set up or exploit this type of quarantine centre, but initiatives could certainly be taken by the private sector which could then be approved. On my question, the BFSA has presented me with possible solutions. They will be examined as soon as possible, in order to include them in a draft royal decree, which will then have to be approved by the next full government. I want to thank the agency. Some employees have even received death threats because of the file. The agency has always tried to find a solution for the cat in the file. I also congratulate all the staff of the BFSA, who is responsible for the protection of human and animal health on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answers. I'm glad to hear that you and the BFSA have been looking for alternatives for the future. That's certainly welcome. When I hear the figures of the number of animals returned, regularized or euthanized, there are still a lot of them. In this sense, it may be important to take another awareness campaign with the BFSA. I have seen that in 2009 there was a circular letter to the local authorities and it is actually quite clear. It is perhaps possible to send them around again or even at the beginning of each legislature to the local authorities, so that they are aware of the danger of rabies, something you no longer have to convince me of. The BFSA will also rightly demand the owner's fine. Finally, I would like to emphasise very strongly that I strongly reject the threats that have been made to the spokesperson and possibly others at the BFSA. This can't be happening. The BFSA has only done its job.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u5	Mrs Dierick is not present for her question No. 55009276C. Mrs. Dierick is absent. The Minister informs us that his questions Nos. 55006276C, 55007289C and 55007564C are transformed into written questions, following an agreement with his cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u6	Mr President, Minister, my question came from cases in the Netherlands, where a first corona contamination of animals to humans was possible, in particular through a mink. It was supposed to be an employee of a mink farm. First of all, has that case been confirmed? Are you following the file, too? There is indeed talk of outbreaks there. This would be the case in countries like Denmark. In the meantime, if I understand correctly, the Netherlands has also announced that it will screen all the mink farms in future so that future outbreaks in those farms can be monitored and dig in. We also see unrest in our country, especially in the border region. We already know that Corona knows no borders. Since unfortunately there are also the mink farms in our country, I have the following questions. What measures do you plan to take exactly? Have you followed the case in the Netherlands? Has it been effectively confirmed that it was a corona contamination of animals on humans? Are we also being screened in the mink farms? What are the results? I understand they've been requested from you, but haven't been provided yet. Finally, what additional measures will you take to prevent animal contamination on humans?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u7	Minister, I would like to endorse Mr Van Camp's question. Are further studies being carried out on other species, alongside the mink, because there are several animals that appear to be susceptible to COVID-19, including ferrets, cats, hamsters and rabbits? Wild animals would also be susceptible to COVID-19. They could act as a reservoir in which the virus continues to circulate and which could lead to further contamination of animals on humans at a later stage. My questions are therefore mainly about the screenings that are being carried out in companies holding COOVID-19 sensitive animals. Are screenings being done there? What is the state of play? Have certain directives been issued for these companies to take the necessary measures? Is there an obligation to report suspicious cases of disease and mortality in these animals and are they being investigated further? Is research being carried out on pets that could possibly form a reservoir for the virus? What species are currently being screened? Are screenings also being carried out on wild animals and on animals that are not immediately in the spotlight on possible susceptibility to COOVID-19?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u8	My colleagues have been so complete that I agree with the previous questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u9	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, Mrs Gijbels, Mrs Creemers, the possibility of transferring animal-to-human coronavirus is, of course, a very important issue for me and my colleague, Maggie De Block. As you know, it is responsible for the measures to be taken in the field of public health. As far as I am concerned, I very quickly requested the attention of the federal services, following the infection of a dog with COVID-19 in Hong Kong on 18 March. The Scientific Committee of the BFSA took note of suspicious cases reported in pets, as well as a tiger in the New York Zoo. An urgent preliminary opinion was given on 23 March, which was updated on 14 April. A Risk Assessment Group - COVID Animals (RAGCA) was established on 9 April. This Risk Assessment Working Group supports the Federal Crisis Working Group COVID-19 on new information and knowledge on this virus in animals. As regards the risk to public health, Belgium therefore anticipated the risk when we found the contamination of a human being by a mink in the Netherlands. This was confirmed by phylogenetic studies that showed a relationship between the virus in the animal and in humans. epidemiological studies are also underway to better understand the mechanism of animal transmission to humans. In consultation with the RAGCA, the BFSA contacted the growers and their veterinarians, as well as their professional federation. In particular, they were informed individually about the recommendations of the RAGCA. They were also asked to be more vigilant and to inform the BFSA of suspicions of cases of COVID-19 in their company. On 25 May 2020, I also asked for passive and active monitoring to be introduced in the 16 mink farms in the north of the country. As you know, this type of farming is only allowed in Flanders. These measures are at the top of the reporting obligation for cases of COVID-19 on companies. The objective is to ensure possible monitoring of mink farms and, where appropriate, to take the necessary ad hoc measures. If a company tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, the BFSA will immediately inform that company and Sciensano of that information. For example, they may take measures which they consider necessary in the context of public health. I have made an urgent budget of EUR 50,000 so that the BFSA could ensure efficient monitoring of the sector over the next ten weeks. On 11 June 2020, I also signed a royal decree requiring laboratories and veterinarians to report cases of infection with SARS-CoV-2 in animals to the government. Several initiatives have seen the light of day at the universities of Liège and Ghent, to test samples of animals for the presence of the SARS-CoV-2 virus or for antibodies to it. Private companies also provide tests. Those different actors were contacted by the RAGCA to forward their results. RAGCA also follows the international scientific literature carefully. At present, the risk of natural transmission of the virus by humans to wild animals is considered low by the Scientific Committee of the BFSA. The case of the aforementioned tiger therefore appears to be isolated. Wild fauna is also, as you know, the responsibility of the regions. However, as far as I know, no detection of animal disease has yet been introduced in Belgium. We will, of course, follow the evolution of the situation very closely, both in Belgium and abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u10	Minister, I understand that you have done the necessary policy, with a plan of action together with the RAGCA in the event of outbreaks. There is an obligation on the farms themselves to report positive cases, but it is not clear to me whether positive cases have already been reported. No? Then it is settled for me and I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u11	Minister, your answer was clear and I do believe that we should rely on the expertise within the RAGCA. Are there any reports of those meetings and can we get them? We would then be able to follow the initiatives and the planning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u12	Minister, a budget has been made available for better monitoring and there is a royal decision that requires the notification of the infections. Those are the things we wanted to hear, but now we will not be able to ask questions about them for a longer period of time when we want to follow this closely. If you assure us that this is in good hands and that we can ask additional questions if necessary, then I dare to trust it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u13	Mr President, may I refer to the writing? Apparently, no one seems to want to get tired here in the House. I, too, believe I have the right to refer to writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u14	Minister, if I ask for a reference to the written text, it is only in order to save time. I am, of course, prepared to read the full text of my questions if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u15	That is the life of a parliamentarian. I don't see why a parliamentarian can do it and not a minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u16	Minister, the reference to the written text of the questions was proposed during the VOCID-19 crisis in order to save time, as Members of Parliament then had a lot of questions to ask ministers. I think that Mrs de Laveleye is perfectly prepared to read her question or, at the very least, to summarize the content of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u17	If the goal is to save time, why not file the questions in writing? To respond to parliamentarians in a clear, precise and languageless manner requires some mobilization. When I was a Member of Parliament, I always read the full text of the oral questions I filed. I expect the same from parliamentarians today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u18	So I'll read my question. The will of Members, who move from one minister to another with different demands, is to make life easier for everyone, which explains why I do not appreciate being preached in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u19	I'm not preaching to you, I'm just giving you my opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u20	Minister, this is my question. In France, slaughterhouses have been suspected of being outbreaks of VOCID-19 infection. The Minister of Agriculture, Didier Guillaume, was planning to screen all the employees of the French slaughterhouses, after more than a hundred cases were detected in two factories. In the Netherlands, almost 150 employees were tested positive for VOCID-19. Half of these employees are German border workers. On 22 May, the authorities ordered the closure of the slaughterhouse and placed 600 employees in quarantine. The assumptions are numerous: the housing or working conditions of the employees, the specific context of the slaughterhouse (cold and wet air), but not yet certain. In Belgium, AFSCA wants to be reassuring in its communication: no cluster seems to have been identified in a slaughterhouse in Belgium. Have you been informed of this situation in neighbouring countries? What about the situation in Belgian slaughterhouses? I guess the situation has changed a little. Have preventive measures been taken or will they be taken if the situation is to remain similar? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u21	Madame de Laveleye, do not take my remark for you! This is a trend among parliamentarians, which obviously does not concern you personally. In my opinion, Parliament is talking. Thank you for reading your important question. We are following the situation related to VOCID-19 abroad with great attention, including what is happening in slaughterhouses. This situation is not directly related to a food security issue. The Federal Agency for Food Chain Security (AFSCA), moreover, has not received official notification from neighbouring countries. This is a situation that we will have to remedy, and I have written to Commissioner Kyriakides to that effect. As far as Belgium is concerned, we have been following very closely the situation in slaughterhouses since the outbreak began. For example, I had asked AFSCA to ensure that the control services and mission staff active in slaughterhouses carry out all the necessary checks to ensure that social distancing rules, hygiene measures and, where appropriate, the wearing of the facial mask were scrupulously observed. Daily checks have been carried out by mission managers since the start of the crisis. Mission managers, as part of their day-to-day services, also carry out the VOCID-19 type checks. AFSCA has already had to impose, in a number of cases, temporary cessation of activities in various facilities because the VOCID-19 health rules were not respected. I instructed the administration to continue to do so whenever it was necessary and to ensure that activities were stopped if it still found that the health rules had not been complied with. On 22 May, in view of developments in Germany, I organised a new meeting with several experts in my office, involving the cabinet of Minister De Block, the Belgian Meat Federation (FEBEV) and the managing director of AFSCA. The meeting provided a useful update on the situation in Belgian slaughterhouses, which is currently under control. A health protocol has been established within the sector, you know. I also asked the SPF Emploi about the rate of absenteeism of staff, because this indicator remains important in view of what has happened abroad (persons falling ill in slaughterhouses; households that have developed around slaughterhouses...). The indicator remains stable with respect to the rate of absenteeism in 2019. I also asked SPF Employment to continue monitoring in order to have as complete a mapping as possible. In addition, I asked FEBEV to continue to inform the authorities about the rate of absenteeism and to do so as a matter of urgency if a finding was to reveal a rate of absenteeism that would rise. FEBEV, at my request, maintains regular contact with the trade unions on this subject. Public attention must go beyond slaughterhouses and cutting plants. It appeared in Germany that it was not the way this was happening in slaughterhouses that was problematic. On the contrary, it was the transport conditions of the workers, their housing and the workers that could be factors of spread of the virus. If this subject came out of my prerogatives and responsibilities, I certainly did not fail to write to the Minister of the Interior, competent in the field of transport control, in order to raise his department's awareness of the matter as well. I have also asked the Social Information and Research Service (SIRS) to coordinate an action plan to monitor these workers, their working conditions and their housing, aspects that go beyond my remit. But that did not prevent me from issuing injunctions to that effect. With regard to housing control, I have written to the regional ministers because they are competent in this area. Having found that some, within the scope of their responsibilities, did not go far enough in my view, I was forced to take initiatives that went beyond my competence. On 29 and 30 June, two meetings were held with the Director of the Information and Social Research Service (SIRS), the Managing Director of the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain (AFSCA), the Office of the Minister of the Interior, the Belgian Meat Federation (FEBEV), the poultry industry federations and the cabinet of Minister De Backer, in order to integrate and monitor the situation of slaughterhouses at the level of the testing and traceability platform. We agreed to set up a working group within administrations to monitor the situation. Similarly, a technical meeting was organised at my request by the SIRS, in which the Regions and Ministers responsible for monitoring, housing, etc. are represented. in order for the SIRS to draw up an enhanced control plan for the sector. I continue, beyond my responsibilities, to ensure that everyone assumes his or her responsibilities in this regard. Recall that the role of AFSA is to control slaughterhouses and the work carried out there! For example, monitoring of transport, housing and compliance with working conditions does not fall within the competence of the Minister responsible for food safety. I have therefore taken care to implement a method of work which, in the light of this sensitive issue, must ensure that everyone takes on his or her responsibilities and that the situation remains the same as it is. We must be aware that there are significant differences in the organization of work in the meat sector. The work done with FEBEV since 2012 has made it possible to put in place a healthier system in our country. However, if we want to maintain a stable rate of absenteeism, as is the case today, and avoid the repetition of what has happened abroad, it is imperative that everyone fulfils – within the framework of their competences – the objectives set out by the SIRS in terms of housing and transport control.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answer. You have given a lot of information, especially about collaborations beyond your strict skills. Unless I have missed information, it seems to me that all indicators are green. It is clearly reassuring to know that employees are working in good conditions. Thank you for all this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u23	According to European legislation, additives that were authorised before January 2009 must be re-evaluated in 2020. This re-evaluation is carried out by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA). Do you have any information on the methodology used by EFSA in this re-evaluation? Do you know when the results of this re-evaluation will be published? Was Belgium consulted in the process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u24	Mrs de Laveleye, it is indeed an important question that relates to food additives. Information on the methodology used by EFSA to reassess these additives is published on the EFSA website and is therefore accessible. Where a re-evaluation is ready for an additive or for a group of additives that would be toxicologically related, EFSA shall also publish the re-evaluation on its site. A programme for the re-evaluation of authorised food additives has been established by the Commission and the Member States. EFSA regularly reported on the progress of its work at meetings with Member States and gave them the opportunity to identify priorities. Where EFSA identifies deficiencies in a re-evaluation report, it is required to provide additional advice on additives that have already been re-evaluated. These additional opinions are still relevant but also delay the renewal procedure. It is therefore not yet possible to provide you with a specific date for the completion of this work, which was originally scheduled for the end of 2020. Belgium, for its part, has always followed closely the programme of re-evaluation of additives. It is directly involved in the decision-making process, whether on the setting of programme priorities or on amendments to legislation where the conditions for the use of additives need to be adapted on the basis of EFSA scientific advice. It therefore also contributes to the scientific re-evaluation process by providing scientific data to the European Agency. You can be assured that the Health FPS experts continue to be extremely attentive on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u25	There is not yet a planned date. One can imagine that it will be difficult to achieve (or not) in view of the troubled period that we have experienced. When the data is published – on the EFSA website – we will be paying attention at the end of the year to see where we are with these food additives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u26	Mr. Chair, Minister, it has been several years since the additive E171 or titanium dioxide, an adjuvant used by manufacturers to bleach food, has been concerned about its health impacts. This additive could be problematic when it is present in the form of nanoparticles. It has been recognized as a possible carcinogen by the United Nations International Cancer Research Centre. In accordance with the precautionary principle, France has banned the use of additive E171, as early as 2020. In the Netherlands, several brands announced that they would stop the use of E171 additive in their products after the Dutch Food Safety Authority had concluded a possible relationship between the consumption of E171 additive and colon cancer. Minister, what about the re-evaluation of this substance by the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA)? Do you intend to apply the precautionary principle in this respect and to prohibit this additive on Belgian soil like France?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u27	Mr President, Mrs de Laveleye, thank you for this question. It is quite common for you to ask questions about files that are on my desk. Often, you point out questions that draw my attention. This is also often the case with the questions asked by Mrs Gijbels. We are committed to maintaining a high level of food security. We are extremely attentive to this. That's one of my priorities. In June 2019, EFSA voted on a scientific opinion on the technical specifications of titanium dioxide. It recommends that these specifications be strengthened, in particular with regard to particle size. On this basis, the European Commission has submitted a draft amendment to the specifications for titanium dioxide. This regulation is currently subject to a monitoring procedure in the European Council and the European Parliament. It is intended to prohibit titanium dioxide with a median particle size of less than 100 nanometres. Belgium is actively involved in the follow-up of the case at European level. EFSA is expected to deliver an opinion on toxicological data by the end of the year and the final decision on authorisation will therefore be taken at that time. I note with you that the process is slow. I am not surprised that France has already taken a proactive decision to ban the use of titanium dioxide as a food additive since 1 January 2020. Given the slowness of the process, I have referred the matter to the ACHA Scientific Committee for advice. As you know, for any decision of this kind, I would like to rely on a scientific opinion. It is in this respect that the opinion of the Scientific Committee of the AFSCA is appropriate. And, depending on the Committee's conclusions, if they go in the way I suppose, I will not hesitate to ban this product proactively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Do you have a vague idea when the AFSCA Scientific Committee will deliver its findings?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u29	It's variable. This is done in a few months. I think we can hope for this for the fall, perhaps a little earlier, but in my opinion it will be in the fall.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u30	Do you know if AFSCA and other European agencies share their own scientific reports to save time or expand the scope of analysis. Is this a common practice? Do they include in particular the French conclusions? Or do they leave a blank page?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u31	The scientific literature on the subject is shared among the experts, but it is obvious that on such subjects they will make their own diagnosis, as you may have guessed, even if they consult pieces. To tell you the way they are, the AFSCA Scientific Committee is independent and made up of independent scientists. I therefore do not know exactly how they will draw their conclusions: probably on the basis of a scientific literature, which is probably part of the reports made abroad, probably in France, taking into account the decisions taken there. It is clear that an exchange of analysis and information is taking place between our scientists.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u32	Thank you, Minister. We therefore look forward to seeing the analysis of the AFSCA Scientific Committee in the fall.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u33	Minister, since I tabled my question, there have been new developments. You have indeed reported in the press on the follow-up to this question. As a reminder, my question was about studying the growth potential of listeria in certain types of cheese. This study was carried out between 2017 and 2019 by the consortium Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech-University of Liège and others. It was discussed in committee at the end of January and Mr Ducrame told us that the study had been forwarded to a scientific committee which was to give an opinion on the need to adapt the regulations on the basis of this study in March. Since then, Mr.Ducarme has communicated in the press and has announced to us that a circular has been signed to ease the control criteria for cheese producers, which represents a "very concrete boost" for them. I'm quoting you, Minister. So we can see that things have moved forward, that there have been direct effects, and I am glad to see that. It may be useful to tell us, Mr. Ducrame, if you have already had a concrete return from the cheese producers in relation to this new circular, if you have had a feedback from the field. We've had some feedback, but I'd like to know what's going on with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u34	Madame de Laveleye, to tell you everything about my secret passions, this is a file I've been working on for a long time. Already, during the last parliamentary term, I had been able to take a number of initiatives in this area. I care about small producers, and it is in this sense that the Federal Agency for Food Chain Safety (AFSCA) was able to initiate steps, reflections and studies to see if we could be more flexible in this area to enable our local products to flourish safely for consumers. Last week, I signed the AFSCA circular, which relaxes criteria for the control of listeria bacteria in farm cheeses for small producers. This is good news for products from our terroir. Of course, the sector has been consulted. This circular follows the receipt by AFSCA of an opinion from the Scientific Committee, which we asked, on the growth potential of listeria monocytogenes in Belgian farm cheeses. It was on the basis of this opinion, and other considerations that we may have had, that the Agency proposed this new circular. The Scientific Committee's opinion concerns a scientific study which shows that, below a certain threshold, the presence of listeria in farm cheeses does not pose a risk of developing and reaching a threshold that is dangerous to health. Zero tolerance disappears in favour of a more flexible regulation that relieves operators while continuing to protect the health of the consumer. In 2019, the study had already been completed. I had the related file reopened in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u35	Minister, thank you. It is always good news that scientific studies are being used quickly and that they lead to new guidelines and a new accompaniment. We can only rejoice. We have had some feedback from the small producers who are confident that, although this is still good news overall, the directive requires stricter control - control of each production rather than control of the manufacturing process and then relax controls. What they earn on one side, they lose on the other because it's heavier and more expensive. Therefore, I wonder to what extent it would not be interesting to quickly evaluate this new directive in order, if necessary, to update it in collaboration with stakeholders and always in the perspective of the AFSCA - zero risk to consumers. Since the directive is new, a margin for improvement will have to be clarified in collaboration with farmers in the coming months after a few months of experimentation with this progress. It'll probably be interesting to come back.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u36	I admit I haven't had the same return, but these are things that happen. Of course, I remain available to hear your comments in this regard. Also, do not hesitate to put me in contact with those who would still be wondering about this new circular, we will be happy to listen to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u37	Mr Kris Verduyckt's question will be asked later this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u38	Minister, I would like to ask you a number of questions about the revision of the date indication in the fight against food waste, on which a resolution was unanimously adopted in plenary, which shows that the concerns are widely shared by Parliament. In that resolution we call on the federal government to take a number of initiatives. I should like to hear from you how you will respond to the call for the resolution, both the opportunities and the concrete actions and the timetable. How will you better communicate the meaning of the sustainability data to consumers? I mean the difference between "to use to" and "at least sustainable to." Are you thinking, for example, of an awareness-raising campaign, as we have seen very recently in the Netherlands, where the campaign has just been launched without waste? Is consultation already planned with the various links in the food industry such as the BFSA and the representative consumer organisations in order to ensure that the at least sustainable declaration would not be shorter than necessary for optimum quality preservation, as well as to discuss the use of new technologies as intelligent packaging? Will you, together with the BFSA, investigate whether it is possible, in the context of food safety, to still be able to provide food that has been exceeded by at least tenancy until date? That food isn't all spoiled. When do you expect a plan against food waste to be available per federal institution, as requested in the resolution? Will that topdown be made or will each institution be able to submit its own plan? We also call in the resolution for this to be addressed at European level, for example to develop a coordinated European action plan to improve the differentiation of the concepts 'at least sustainable to' and 'to use to', or to develop alternatives for 'at least sustainable to'. Finally, has there been any consultation with the Länder to exchange good practice in the fight against food waste?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u39	Thank you, Mrs Van Bossuyt, for your important question. It is true that getting rid of food waste is a goal for which we must all be very attentive. In fact, the fight against food waste goes well beyond the federal framework. The regions have the most important levers in this respect. I will come back later to the aspects of the themes that are exclusively European. At federal level, the BFSA already plays an important role in that domain, according to its powers. Measures against food waste must never be at the expense of food safety. In particular, a circular specifies the conditions for the sale of foodstuffs whose minimum shelf life has been exceeded. This is only possible under the responsibility of the seller and according to strict modalities. There is also a website available to the public and the operators. The Agency also provides support to encourage donations to the needy. A circular provides guidance on the interpretation of shelf life dates, traceability, labelling and freezing of pre-packaged foods. The BFSA also regularly cooperates with regional services, which have the main levers for combating food waste. Finally, I come to the European level. As part of the Green Deal, the European Commission proposed a series of actions to allow the transition to a more sustainable food system. The reduction of food waste is also part of the Farm to Fork strategy. Finally, the Commission will propose legally binding targets for reducing food waste in the EU by 2023. It will also propose a review of the European rules on product sustainability dates, namely to be used until at least sustainable until the end of 2022. Belgium will, of course, have to pay attention to the proposals that will then be made. However, with regard to the other points in your resolution, which were only adopted on 11 June, the work slopes that will result from this will be limited, as you suspected, by the period of business in progress. I have no doubt that the next full government will pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u40	Thank you for your reply, Minister. With all due respect, you have listed in particular what has already been done, but little has been said about what remains to be done. At European level, you refer to the Green Deal and other matters, but in the resolution we advocate very specific issues, such as Belgium's joining countries such as the Netherlands, in favour of extending the list of products that do not have a date, such as coffee and rice. That is a very concrete matter, and you could answer it perfectly. You are hiding behind the period of current cases, but I think it would be an honour for you to do so. At the beginning, you yourself state that the fight against food waste is very important. Nothing prevents you from doing the preparatory work so that you can pass this on to your successor to show how much you are actually concerned with this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament 55007289C by Mrs Dierick will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u42	Mr Minister, as you know, your colleague, the Minister for Animal Welfare in Wallonia, Céline Tellier, is regularly questioned by citizens who alert him about the conditions of detention and importation of puppies to livestock farms or animal farms in Wallonia. These are problematic in terms of animal welfare, but also because they involve health risks for animals present in our territory. I think we've all read the press over the last few weeks, showing us animals in such a state of health that they need to be euthanized. Minister Tellier acts within the limits of her powers, including ensuring the controls of the Animal Welfare Unit on the ground and working on a review of Walloon legislation on the conditions of detention and marketing in dog and cat farms. My questions are as follows. Are you also being questioned about this? What are you considering as an answer to this problem with regard to your skills, specifically regarding animal health and related health risks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u43	Madame de Laveleye, this question affects me a lot. I have already said that I am particularly sensitive to the issue of animal welfare, which, as you know, is a regional responsibility, but we have a federal responsibility for animal health. I quickly resumed contact with Mrs Tellier, on the basis of the statements you are referring to. I have come back to remind her of the importance of regular monitoring by the competent regional services of the conditions for the rearing and marketing of animals, as well as of animal welfare issues, as well as of the monitoring of the identification and registration of dogs, cats and ferrets. These are exclusively regional competences. At the federal level, the AFSCA fulfils its task of monitoring the importation of live animals into Belgian territory. When the DG4 of the Public Health FPS receives a notification concerning Belgian puppies purchased which have proved to be imported, the information shall be forwarded for follow-up to the inspection service of the AFSCA and the Regions. The rules governing the commercial importation of puppies are essentially laid down at European level. Upon arrival, animals must be presented at a veterinary border inspection post which must be notified one working day in advance and where identity and documentary checks are carried out by the AFSCA. I would also remind you that commercial imports must be registered through the European TRACES application. Furthermore, you know that veterinarians are also subject to mandatory notification when they find or suspect that a pet that does not meet the conditions is introduced into the territory. They are therefore required to notify the local AFSCA control unit without delay. I agree with you on the need to strengthen cooperation between actors in this field. That is why I asked the AFSCA to organize a meeting with the various relevant regional services quickly and to examine the various options that could improve, at each level of power, the fight against perfectly unacceptable practices. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u44	Minister, thank you. I am pleased to hear that you are responding to the request of the regional minister – but we have no doubt about it. I understand that you have planned a meeting to strengthen the links between the levels of power in order to find a solution to this type of problem. Indeed, as you have admitted, no one can remain insensitive to the exploitation of animals, both in terms of their well-being - which depends on the regions - and in terms of the health risk that this phenomenon represents. We know only too well the burden of diseases that can be transmitted from animals to humans. We have everything to gain from an ethical point of view, but also from an effective approach to our health, to strengthen the links between the Regions and the federal government. I thank you, in any case, for your answer. We will take some short news from this issue that concerns us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u45	Mr President, Minister, in Germany, state laboratories have confirmed the presence of hydrocarbons of aromatic mineral oils in baby dairy products. The European Food Safety Authority suspects these hydrocarbons to be carcinogenic and genotoxic. The non-governmental organisation (NGO) Foodwatch International has been alerting the European Commission and the Member States in this regard for several months. According to the Strategic Director, further tests would take place, but the results of these tests are not made public. At the end of May 2020, Foodwatch International reported that infant dairy products of the brands Nestlé, Rossmann, Novalac and Humana had been contaminated with these mineral oils during analyses by chemical and veterinary investigation offices in Münster and Stuttgart. Minister, are you aware of the problem? Have any tests been carried out in our home? If so, are the results of these tests public? Can you communicate them to us? If not, do you intend to ask for such tests? Have you ever had contact with your European counterparts on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u46	Mr President, Mrs de Laveleye, this is a dossier on the food safety of young children. It is a concern which is of every moment and which mobilizes strongly. I have, of course, been aware of the results of these tests carried out in Germany. I have asked my services to strengthen vigilance in the territory. Sciensano, the federal reference laboratory, has finalized a research project to analyse mineral oils in several foods without, however, covering baby dairy products. Following the study carried out by Foodwatch International, analyses were carried out in several Member States at the request of the European Commission at the end of 2019. The results were then communicated to the European Food Safety Authority for a useful follow-up. In Belgium, several samples of infant formulas were taken from retail outlets and analysed. The results of the analyses obtained for MOAH levels in these samples were all consistent. However, based on EFSA's opinion, we conclude that the presence of aromatic mineral oils in food may be of public health concern. FPS Public Health and AFSCA experts participated in several European meetings in November 2019, February 2020 and 23 June 2020. During these meetings, Member States were asked to monitor the contamination of products. The industrial sector was also asked to take measures to prevent contamination, instead selecting vegetable oils. In addition to the measures taken in Belgium, I was able to write to Commissioner Kyriakides and to EFSA, so that all necessary measures could be taken quickly to ensure the health of young children.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u47	Minister, it is recommended that producers use vegetable oils rather than mineral oils. Could you confirm to me that these recommendations are not obligations for producers? On the other hand, at the beginning of the surgery, you said that Sciensano was going to strengthen the studies. Then you talked about sample analyses in Belgium. Is it the same or is it two distinct things? Could you reprocise it to me? I'm not sure I understood everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u48	These are distinct things. We carried out checks and the results were consistent. I told you that a number of meetings have been organised at European level with experts from AFSCA and SPF Public Health. The Member States are clearly called upon to control the contamination of products, which we are doing. The industry was also asked to take measures to prevent contamination, instead selecting vegetable oils as ingredients. I was told that, following the meeting on 23 June 2020, further concrete actions could be taken at European level and more stringent recommendations should be made. The case is under way and I am extremely attentive to its evolution. We will continue to meet at European level, so that concrete follow-up is ensured – both in Europe and in our country – on the basis of the recommendations given to industry and that the protection of younger consumers is guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u49	Thank you for these clarifications. It will indeed be interesting to see whether the industrial sector is following Europe's public health recommendations. Indeed, I think it is sometimes difficult to achieve results if a measure is not mandatory. We will follow closely the meetings organised and the decisions taken at Belgian and European level. This is a matter of concern and I am reassured that it is being closely monitored in the highest place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u50	I would point out that the plenary is in progress and there will soon be an interruption for the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u51	Mr President, I am asking for a technical break now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u52	In any case, minister, the vote in plenary is announced. We will therefore suspend our meeting now for about 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u53	Mr President, Minister, I refer in my question to the European regulation, which clearly states that we are responsible for monitoring this traffic. It was therefore remarkable to hear something about this from the Flemish Committee on Animal Welfare of 3 June. Minister Ben Weyts concluded that the BFSA quarantine is not an option. We wouldn't have quarantine facilities in Belgium. If I had to follow him, for those reasons, the work would not be done as it should be. The Minister said in the Flemish Parliament that there were 50 to 100 controls, with the BFSA finding that the conditions for rabies during the private movement of pet animals would not have been complied with. Firstly, is the information correct that the BFSA has been failing to apply the regulation for six years and to designate a quarantine facility? If so, why didn't this happen? If not, what are the quarantine establishments for pet animals approved by the BFSA in Belgium? Secondly, at Zaventem airport there would be a new facility, which would be suitable for placing animals in quarantine. Is that right? Is it suitable for that? Who is competent for the quarantine facilities in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u54	Thank you, Mr Verduyckt, for your question on improving the quarantine conditions of imported animals or of animals travelling across our territory. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the European directive to which you refer does not provide a legal framework for the approval of rabies centres for pet animals. Moreover, as you know, it is not up to the BFSA or the government to set up or operate a quarantine centre. Such centres are the result of private initiatives, as is the case in the Netherlands. To date, the BFSA has not received any questions from private operators who wish to focus on the establishment of such establishments. Moreover, neither European nor federal legislation today sets out the conditions for a quarantine centre for dogs and cats. It is therefore completely incorrect to state that the BFSA failed to designate a quarantine facility. Those conditions of infrastructure, equipment and management should therefore be defined on the basis of scientific understanding. In this way, operators who wish to do so can take the necessary steps to set up and operate such a centre. It is not normal, however, that our country does not have an officially recognised rabies quarantine establishment for the isolation of animals with an increased risk profile. I want a structural solution to be found and for our country to develop a legal framework for only the approved transit quarantine centres. On my question, the BFSA has presented me with a range of possible solutions that will be considered as soon as possible to integrate them into a design of royal decree. For the airport of Zaventem it is true that a new inspection centre for live animals was put into operation at the beginning of June. However, it is not designed or equipped as a rabies quarantine device. Rabies is a deadly disease whose incubation may take weeks or even months. On the other hand, the BFSA identified it as a border inspection post, with the approval of the European Commission. The BFSA carries out import controls there today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll read your answer again quietly. I agree with you that it is unworthy of a country like Belgium that it does not have a quarantine facility. If I understand correctly, it will be left to the private sector. But if the private sector does not invest, we can impose quarantine but not organise it properly. I will look at this matter quietly and perhaps come back to it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u56	Mr Minister, I am talking here about the possibility that there may be a problem, because the control at the place where animals leave does not have the same result as the random veterinary check on arrival by the BFSA. A check of the documents does not exclude that there is a difference with the cargo. Mr Minister, I have two questions about this. We've already talked today about rabies, a deadly infectious disease. It is therefore important for the vaccination schedule that the age of the pups is correct. That age is checked by dental check and titer determination. How does the BFSA check that the documents accompanying a load correctly reflect the health status of the pups? Secondly, the irregularities identified by the BFSA may also constitute infringements of the welfare of the animals. Is there any consultation with the regions responsible for animal welfare? If so, have reports been drawn up? Where can we possibly look at them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u57	Mr President, Mr Verduyckt, rabies is a deadly disease for which we must remain extremely attentive. The BFSA confirms to me that the age determination of a puppy is an essential parameter in the context of a control of rabies vaccination in an import. An age determination based on the teeth is a well-known method, but it is not reliable and very difficult in practice, as confirmed by a recent study by the Ghent Faculty of Veterinary Medicine. The titration of rabies antibodies gives us limited information on the health status of the imported animals. The presence of antibodies simply shows that the animal was vaccinated, without link to age. In the context of a non-commercial import, the owner must present the animal to a border inspection post for inspection by the competent authorities, namely customs. The animal must have been vaccinated against rabies, identified and over 15 weeks of age. For the commercial import of live animals, the conditions are largely the same, except that another model of certificate accompanies the consignment and ends up with the authorities of the Member States of destination via the traceability system. At their arrival in the EU, the animals must be notified and presented to an approved border inspection post for veterinary import control purposes. The health certificate must then confirm that the place of origin is not a fireplace of rabies. For the rest, I would remind you that animal welfare falls exclusively within the competence of the regions. Irregularities concerning the health status and passports of the animals in intra-Community traffic shall be published annually in the Agency's annual reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u58	Minister, it is an important matter. With regard to the commercial import of pets, we can see that there is some movement, but also in non-commercial areas, for example, there are projects around stray dogs in Europe, often with very good intentions. In the meantime, however, this has also become a earning model for some. I am concerned about whether the controls are going well. After all, where there is money to be made, we must always be a little wary. I understand that in the meantime the BFSA has also received a complaint from a veterinarian who complains about the fact that lies would be spread over rabies, which would just happen to prevent non-commercial imports. That is why I do not take a stand, but we do notice that things are moving. We must keep a close eye on these movements. Public health and animal health are paramount. Controls, however difficult, are therefore very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u59	First of all, my colleague Patrick Prévot, who is retained in another committee, asks me whether it would be possible to turn his oral question No 7213 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u60	I'll take note of that. Question 55007213C is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u61	In July 2019, the mayor of Lessines ordered a seizure of fourteen horses at a feeder merchant located in Ogy. A breeder who seems customary because on August 28, a new rescue operation was taking place with him to evacuate a dozen goats. This situation highlights the problem of controls – or rather the lack of controls – of horse feeders. After contacting the Animal Welfare Unit (UBEA), it appears that there is no framework for this activity, in that there are no specific standards for traceability and monitoring of animals, no periodic and specific veterinary monitoring obligations and no records of entry and exit. These standards apply, on the other hand, to the breeding of dogs and cats, for example. This lack of traceability and legal framework, together with the large number of animals coming and going and the lack of control, means that this activity is qualified, even by the admission of UBEA members, as opaque. Can you tell us what control procedures exist in the horse feeder market sector? Were you aware of the shortcomings I just mentioned? If so, what measures do you intend to take to improve this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u62	Mr President, Mrs Dedonder, I know this because I myself gave a number of injunctions at the time. However, it is my responsibility, and I am sorry, that the information that has been transmitted to you by the animal welfare unit is wrong. Horse traders must meet animal traceability requirements. Horses, for example, must be identified and recorded in the central database, which AFSCA verifies annually. Both traceability requirements and infrastructure requirements and hygiene are monitored. The operator you refer to is no longer licensed as a trader. It is only registered as a holder of horses. The requirements and controls relating to merchant activities are therefore not applicable in this case. However, he is required to comply with the requirements for identification and registration of his horses. Since 2011, this operator has been the subject of several infringement reports from the AFSCA National Investigation Unit. These offences relate in particular to fraud in the identification of equidae and animal welfare fraud, which, as you know, is a matter for the Regions. These minutes were sent to the Tournai Public Prosecutor's Office for follow-up. Furthermore, in 2012, the AFSCA filed a complaint against the person accused of forgery in writing with the aforementioned prosecutor's office. In August 2019, following an order for the seizure of fourteen horses taken by the mayor of Lessines, the local control unit of the AFSCA wrote a new report for multiple violations of the identification of horses. The minutes were also transmitted to the Prosecutor of the King of Tournai. It is now up to the courts to decide what action should be taken on the case. As soon as the case has been brought before the Public Prosecutor's Office, it is his responsibility to impose a fine, to fix the amount of the fine and to impose the penalties incurred. In this case, the offender may even face a prison sentence. I can tell you that in this case, the AFSCA has fulfilled its mission. It is now a matter for the justice system to reserve the expected follow-up to this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u63	Minister, I've had a lot of information. I'm going to check the information that was given to me elsewhere. I understand that the various controls and measures do not necessarily apply anymore. I will turn again to the town of Lessines and the prosecutor's office to find out where this is going and I will come back to you if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u64	My question arises from a study on the G4 virus that was discovered in pigs in pig farms in China between 2011 and 2018. The virus is related to the H1N1 virus, which caused the flu pandemic in 2009. It is important to mention that the virus was also found in workers working in pig farms. Antibodies against the virus were found in more than 10% of the workers. Perhaps there is no transfer between humans yet, but according to virologist Steven Van Gucht, the virus can provoke a pandemic if it becomes human-to-human. I think it is important for the virus to be monitored in China, but such a virus could also appear in us. That is why I wonder whether we are also being monitored for that type and other types of virus and pathologies in pig farms and livestock farms. Are precautionary measures being implemented? Has there been consultation with communities on the screening of workers working in close contact with animals so that any transfer between animals and humans can be quickly detected, addressed and reported?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u65	Mrs Gijbels, we must indeed remain extremely attentive. On the basis of the information provided by the BFSA, I would like to reassure you. The swine flu caused by subtypes H1N1, H3N2 and H1N2 is epizootic in Belgium. This means that while their presence is normal in pigs and poultry, no case of transfer to humans was identified on the basis of existing scientific data. Belgian researchers who have recognised expertise in this field regularly carry out samples in the Belgian pig population. They allow to get a periodic picture of the genetics of the circulating samples. The BFSA points out to me that the likelihood that the Belgian pig sector would develop the new pandemic strain G4, which recently appeared in China, is virtually nil. In the Agency's view, strengthening the biosecurity measures on pig farms, which I have been able to initiate in the context of the prevention of African swine fever, is a sufficiently effective measure against that type of threat. You should also know that the detection of the variants H1N1 and G4 and their monitoring among the people is already organised in Belgium by the network of Sciensano. However, as far as that part is concerned, this is a matter for the Minister of Health. If, despite all precautions, a pandemic of the virus H1N1-G4 is announced, the BFSA confirms to me that it has the necessary expertise, especially on the basis of the lessons learned from the H1N1 virus pandemic in 2009. However, I asked the BFSA to keep me informed of the evolution of the situation in China and to take the appropriate measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u66	Thank you, Minister Ducarme, I am glad to hear that the virus is already under full surveillance and that you are also curious about its evolution. I believe that we must remain attentive to this, but apart from the H1N1 virus or the G4 virus, we must pay attention in our own country to any zoonotic infections. We are now looking mainly at Africa and the Far East, where new pandemics can arise, but that can of course also happen to us. I understand that's something that's already paying attention to. I will continue to follow the matter with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u67	Minister, this is a small story of great significance. A beekeeper from Hoboken, near the Umicore factory, had his honey tested for heavy metals. The lead values in honey exceeded 1.5 times the European standard. This also happened when testing children of lead levels in their blood. This was a study carried out by the BFSA. Mr. Secretary, did you instruct the BFSA to launch an investigation? How did that get this far? What is the BFSA's mission? What exactly are they investigating? Do they examine the link between Umicore and the honey or the reasons for the presence of lead in the honey? Will the BFSA confine itself to this unique case or will there be a wide-ranging study of all the food produced in the area? What measures are already being taken pending the results of the investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u68	Thank you, Mr Verduyckt, for this question concerning the possible impact of environmental pollution on food safety. On 6 July, the BFSA carried out a check on Hoboken's site. The necessary measures were taken to protect consumers. The honey in question is no longer sold. Although the environment falls within the competence of the Regions, the BFSA has obtained information on the research carried out on environmental pollution in the vicinity of the company Umicore. The BFSA follows up on the issue and the problem of Umicore. According to the opinion of the Agency's Scientific Committee, the presence of lead would not pose an increased risk to consumers of food in the region concerned. However, I asked the BFSA to contact the competent services of the Flemish Region again to ask them to investigate the cause of the infection. The BFSA will not only focus on honey, but will also examine the rest of the primary production in the region. It has also contacted the Flemish authorities in order to investigate a possible contamination in the vegetable gardens. The BFSA has a risk-based control programme, in which annual analyses are carried out on different products, especially from the perspective of heavy metals. Where a non-conformity is established, the necessary measures shall be taken to protect consumers. In 2019 1,210 analyses of food, feed and water were carried out to detect the possible presence of lead. Only a non-conformity related to parsnip was identified.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u69	I'm asking the Minister to work on this case. It's a sad situation, such a heavy metal factory that's so close to a residential neighborhood. I myself grew up in the shadow of Umicore, so you don't have to tell me what the consequences of that are. This will have to be dealt with in the long term by a structural solution. Sending children to a summer camp to resolve the situation temporarily is of course not a solution. This case is likely to have a follow-up. It is certainly a good thing that not only the honey but also the wider environment will be examined in relation to foods produced there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u70	Minister, thank you for your presence. We have reached the end of the list of Members' questions on food security. We wish you a good holiday if you take one.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u71	Not yet. The House stops its business before us. It's okay. I wish you a good plenary tomorrow too. And I would like to thank you, Mr President, for your presidency and the work of the members of this committee, which is of good quality. The questions are becoming more precise and more and more substantiated. It is in the general interest to work with you on all these issues that affect the health of the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic243x.u72	Thank you for the compliments to the members, Minister.
