ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u1	Good afternoon, everyone, may I ask you not to put virtual backgrounds on your screen during the video conference? There is already a slogan to be seen. It doesn't matter which party. I would argue that we should not do that, otherwise we will have an election board on our screen next time. I don't see who it is. Is that you, Mr Creyelman? I don't want to make it a political incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u2	We will not do that, Mr President. I just won a bottle of wine. I told you it wouldn't take five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u3	Okay, then do what you need to do. Here in the room we are not allowed to enter with flags or banners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u4	I hope everyone is healthy, as well as your loved ones. On behalf of our committee, I would like to pay tribute to the health workers and all the others who work to make our society run in spite of this major crisis. I also wanted to thank our very active secretary, Mrs Marion, who worked this Easter Monday. Finally, I welcome Minister De Backer. As everyone knows, Minister De Block is currently on the National Security Council. Some of the Members' questions have shutters that are addressed to both ministers. It is not obvious to separate them now, but Mrs De Block will be on our committee on Friday. Some questions were addressed to Ms De Block, but fell, in whole or in part, within the competence of Mr. Backer. I thank Minister De Backer for his flexibility in this regard. The Speaker of the House gave me an explicit instruction to provide sufficient time for the replies after reviewing the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u5	Mr President, it is useful for me to be able to leave at 4.30 p.m. I would like to thank Parliament for its flexibility. For both fellow Minister De Block and myself, the presence yesterday was impossible, because last minute additional meetings were planned, including to prepare the National Security Council this afternoon. I am always available to Parliament. Since I have been a Member of Parliament myself, I know what it is like. If I can come to Parliament, I'd be happy to. Yesterday, however, that was impossible for both of us. I will answer the questions as best I can today. If the meeting runs out for half an hour, then that is not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u6	Thank you, Minister. That allows me to maintain my original method of meeting. Then we'll see how the meeting goes. Ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with the Cabinet, we have divided the questions into seven themes, in which the questions will be asked in turn, the Minister will give the answers and then follow replies. In this way we avoid asking questions for an hour and a half and throwing all the themes into a pile. The following topics will be discussed in turn: the residential care centres (les maisons de repos), the testing (le testing), the laboratories (les laboratoires), the tracing (le tracing), the material (le médicaments), the masks (les masques) and the medicines (les médicaments). I have decided to work in the same way as in other committees. Normally, each speaker has two minutes to ask his or her question. If he has to ask for more than one, then three minutes will be given to him. We can also naturally take less time and even refer to the text of his question, which in this case will be included in the full report. Replies will be limited to one minute. I know it's short, but we can't afford more time if we want to meet the deadline. In total, I reserved 26 minutes for the minister to answer. I would also remind members that after the Minister's departure, half an hour will be devoted to the order of business and an evaluation of this exercise in preparation for Friday's meeting. Besides, I'm counting on your vigilance if I ever forget anyone. Since we have had to recover some questions originally addressed to Mrs de Block, I may not have their thematic distribution. In any case, we will start with the first theme, which is that of rest and care homes, of woon-zorgcentra.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u7	Mr President, the rather rapid organisation did not always allow me to know what question I had to ask. If I understand correctly, I have to ask my first question about nursing homes. I have two minutes. Is that it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u8	Yes, it is. But in fact, you have three minutes for both of your questions together. You still have one on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u9	Thank you. As you know, I'm a general practitioner. This morning, I went to a nursing home to lend a hand to a co-ordinator medical colleague who had been ordered to test all staff members and residents of a nursing home. But it is obvious that for a coordinating doctor, doing this work alone is very heavy. It's a very important job. As a local general practitioner, I went to help him. But this shows the difficulties generated by the way testing is organised in nursing and nursing homes. There, the situation is very worrying. For example, in this nursing home, 30% of staff are contaminated. All of them have already been tested. Of the 100 residents, 17 have already lost their lives, i.e. almost one in five residents. Today, we tested the rest of the residents. I was able to understand that 20% of all the tests carried out in nursing homes involve contaminated residents and 14% of the staff. First of all, how are you going to set up testing in nursing homes? Last week, problems were identified in this regard. In the field, I myself have noticed that a manual is given, but that the coordinating doctors are left very alone to carry out this task. Then how will you interpret these tests? How are you going to take care of them? There are many rest homes where it is very difficult to organize care between people tested negative and people tested positive for VOCID-19 in order to avoid contamination. There is an urgent need to establish intermediate structures where people who have been contaminated but do not require hospitalization may reside. Minister, if 30% of staff are contaminated, it is difficult for nursing homes to even bring meals to residents. Do you have any plans for backup? Have you been able to find volunteers or ask for help with emergency preparedness or other services?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u10	Mr President, if I may, I would like to turn the floor to my colleague Magali Dock, who is going to focus on this issue of nursing homes. I'll be back in a second time on the ventilators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u11	Mr. Chair, Minister, the fight against the spread of VOCID-19 requires a constant fight. I welcome the courageous measures and the difficult choices made by the entire government, and, as we will never repeat enough, greet all those who are acting as true heroes of this crisis; there are many of them. Through my question, I would like to greet in particular all the actors on the ground who are fighting daily in our rest homes. Yesterday, a nurse in a nursing home said to me in complete humility: "It's easy to rewrite the story by saying that we could have done this or that. Our residence has been touched and what matters to me, here and now, is to make every effort to ensure that what we live does not happen again." As we know, Minister, your goal and that of your counterparts in the federated entities is to do everything possible to stop the current homes and prevent others from burning up. This is what you are doing in practice by launching today a massive screening of 210,000 PCR tests for our nursing homes. Even if you have repeated this on several occasions, I believe that this point must be stressed so that the message is clear. Do you confirm that all people will be tested? That is to say, all residents, nursing staff, but also other staff, such as cooks, who will be in contact with residents. Are the tests both intended for people with symptoms and asymptomatics? As far as the response to the target group is concerned, it seems to me important, from a strategic point of view, that it be harmonised between the different entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u12	Minister, on 1 April it was promised that the tests would be sent out to all residential care centres as soon as possible. On 6 April we received a lot of signals that this was not yet fully in order. Today it is already 15 April and I am still getting signals from several residential care centres that they still have not received the number of tests they were promised. At last week's committee meeting, I understood from you that the distribution is not always smooth and that it is still in the start-up phase. I have a few questions on this, Minister. As for the test capacity itself, is there a key for the 20,000 promised tests? How many of those promised tests go to the residential care centers, especially since the need is very high there? Finally, with the package leaflet on the test kits several things have already gone wrong. Is everything there right now? How do you currently ensure that the emergency workers are trained to take the tests properly so that there are no more problems with them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u13	Mr President, it is useful to start this committee with the theme of nursing homes, since today almost half of the deaths have taken place. The situation is catastrophic for both health care workers, who work with a lack of protective equipment, and residents. We must be able to meet the expectations of the ground. Things have been put in place at the test level, but I regret that they have been done far too late. Today we are above the 10,000 tests a day, which is an excellent thing. Still, we have not reached the 20,000 tests announced by Mr. From Backer to the plenary session last Thursday, and that the Professional Federation of Rest Homes tells us that the 210,000 tests announced for all rest and care homes will be insufficient since it is also a matter of taking into consideration the care, administrative, logistical and maintenance staff. The situation is so tense that rest homes have called for civil protection and the army. I wanted to hear from you about this, but I also wanted to hear more generally about the distribution of equipment in the three regions and in the German-speaking Community. What about the tests for administrative, logistical and maintenance staff? Who is responsible for the transport and analysis of these tests? I hear labs have been assigned specifically to testing in nursing homes. What about the skills required to collect the samples for these tests? Is there any collaboration with hospitals in this regard? What about Sciensano's recommendations that positive and asymptomatic tests could continue to work if necessary? This is a speech that needs to be clarified and on which you should position yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u14	Minister, you have five minutes' speaking time. Is that gonna work?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u15	Mr President, I am doing my best. I promised not to speak too quickly, but I will nevertheless try to answer all the questions. I am very aware of the very precarious situation in which many residential care centres with a very vulnerable group of residents are located. It therefore seemed logical to me that these centres should be tested very quickly in order to allow the regions and the various regional entities responsible to take certain measures. That is why I already decided last week to have 20,000 test kits distributed in the various residential care centres. This is, of course, certainly in conjunction with the regions and the various federated entities because this is their competence. We have spent 20,000 test kits on the basis of a distribution key agreed with the various regional governments. All deliveries in question have taken place. In the meantime, we have received the first results. You received the first results in the debriefing this morning. We have seen in this area that in symptomatic patients about 40% is effectively infected with COVID-19. In asymptomatic patients, approximately 10 to 15 % are infected. In total, therefore, about one in six patients is infected. The tests are divided into 194 different residential care centres. Today, some 20 % of all test kits delivered there have still not been tested. The reason is that the regions have taken on the task of coordinating doctors on the ground and identifying the residential care centres to be tested. I have the commitment of the various ministers at regional level that they will take this to heart. Today, there is still too much time between carrying out the tests, carrying out the tests and returning the tests to the central test platform. Therefore, this weekend and this morning at the interministerial committee, it has been confirmed that very clear agreements have been made on who will do what. The federal level determines the capacity, thus determines how many tests can be carried out per day and provides the tests, either to the rest homes or at a central point, as agreed with the regional authorities. From that moment on, the regional authorities will take over. They coordinate the doctors on the ground, also provide for the framework and take the doctors on the site. For a long time now, it is not just about the coordination doctors but also about doctors coming from hospitals, triage centres and even from Doctors Without Borders; all kinds of organisations have been mobilised to do so, effectively carrying out the tests in the residential care centres in a coordinated manner. The package leaflet discussed last week was tailored to the different regions. We have reviewed the package leaflet very carefully, all of us. There can therefore no longer be any doubt as to how the eraser should be used on site. Once the tests have been completed, the federal government will pick them up again and be read out and tested on the central PCR platform of universities, biotech companies and pharmaceutical companies. That platform is set up. This capacity will be fully exploited from this week on. Once the results are known, these results go back to the prescribing or treating physicians who have access to the system and can review the results. Afterwards, they can contact the tested residents and the staff tested as soon as possible. It was agreed with the federated entities that testing in nursing homes would focus on residents and caregivers. It is the Regions that ask us to provide a number of tests per nursing home, based on the data they provide to us. In the event of a positive test, we follow the recommendations of the RMG. In other words, people can continue their work. Secondly, the results of the tests will also enable the Regions to act and take action themselves, as this falls within their competence. Clearly, the federal government has released the ability to perform tests. It is then up to the Regions to test. Then we take care of the analyses before sending them to the Regions, which then take the measures on the ground. This was agreed this weekend and confirmed this morning in an inter-ministerial committee. We will distribute 210,000 tests over the next three weeks. Wallonia will receive 67 000, Flanders 121 000 and Brussels 20 000. Capacity is also provided for the German-speaking Community. In this way, all those who reside and work in a nursing home will be tested. With regard to the equipment to protect doctors who are responsible for taking and examining samples, the procedure is identical to that of the 20,000 tests that we have already distributed and complies with the RMG recommendations. This is a brief summary of what has happened in the field of distribution, what its results are, what will happen in the coming weeks, in consultation with the regions, and how many tests will be carried out. The number of tests and our capacity are rising. In the coming weeks, they will rise even further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u16	I have seen that Mrs Fonck and Mrs Tillieux would like to speak, but I would prefer to let the speakers reply first. May I remind you that the time limit for the reply is one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u17	I indicated last week that a package of 20,000 tests for the whole of the rest homes actually includes less than 10% of those involved. That is therefore completely inadequate. In the field the tests do not always go smoothly due to a lack of training of the doctors and staff who have to take the tests. I therefore find it regrettable that the federal level only takes care of the tests and allows the regions to go further in their plans. If a rest home has a problem and cannot organise a separate cohort care, then the hospitals under the federal level must come to the aid of the rest homes. I would be very sorry if our elders were to be the victims of the various areas of competence which are playing each other down. I have heard through doctors about various cases of elderly people who were just sent back from the hospital to the rest home when that had indicated that they could not provide adequate care. It is important that the federal level takes a coordinated approach to this because the situation on the ground is very difficult and worrying. The contagion in the resthouses continues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u18	Mr President, if I may, I had to say that this morning, at the Inter-Ministerial Conference, we agreed to look together with the various entities to see how we can deal with this. We want to strengthen the cooperation between residential care centres and hospitals effectively. Now it has been clearly agreed how we will do that and how it will be rolled out in the next few days. I would like to add that clear agreements have been made this morning to allow the various entities to tackle this major problem together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u19	Mrs Dock, you have the floor for your first reply in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, thank you for your answers. It is crucial and it will remain crucial to bring maximum calm to a situation which, unfortunately, remains an important source of anxiety for the staff but also for the residents and their families. Needless to say, we will continue to monitor the situation and raise concerns on the ground. Of course, as you said, we will also follow the role played by the federated entities, which is essential. I would also like to thank you for the clarification you have given about the collaboration between hospitals and nursing homes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u21	Thank you for your reply, Minister. So it is moving in the right direction, for which thanks. The stories from the workplace and the terrain remain poignant. It's too slow for them. The deliveries are only done with a small amount, which creates an additional workload. If we could help people on the ground by reducing the workload, we would take another step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answers and for the actions you have taken. I can imagine the difficult position you find yourself in to complete all of these tests. I mean the division of powers between the federal government with respect to the capacity of tests and their analysis, and the Regions with respect to actions on the ground. I believe, however, that it is still up to the federal government to coordinate these actions so that the time frame between the availability of these tests and the knowledge of the results of these tests is not too long. I believe that the argument of division of powers should not relieve you of the responsibilities of the federal government. Such an argument is not audible, either for the nursing staff or for residents of nursing homes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u23	Mr President, thank you. We had a question about testing. Splitting the debate into different themes is quite disturbing in the presentation of our questions. We should have been warned in advance to allow for better targeting of issues. The part of my question concerning nursing homes has been discussed by my colleagues. I will not go back to that, and I hope it will be included in the record. I would just like to point out that the situation is now dramatic in nursing homes, namely that 63 per cent of deaths in the last 24 hours, which were arrested on 15 April, are recorded in nursing homes. Massive screening has indeed been announced; it will take three or four weeks. Two hundred and ten thousand tests are planned but they arrive too late for residents and nursing staff but not for maintenance, logistics, administrative staff, while these people are also massively in contact with patients. If this exception is maintained, the planned screening in nursing homes is likely to be compromised. My question is why this choice. How many tests per day will be performed? We're counting 10,000 a day. I guess that's still the case. The latest figures are 5170... (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u24	However, I would like to point out that the themes had been sent in advance, grouping the questions into seven categories. Since this is a topical debate, the groups that have not planned a question have two minutes to put one. But, of course, if this happens for each theme, it won't. Since Open Vld was the only group that had not tabled any questions, I agreed with Mr. From Caluwe he would speak for two minutes on the theme of his choice. We will obviously not give the floor to all the groups for each theme. Mrs Gijbels and Mrs Fonck wished to speak on the subject of nursing homes, but if they had not tabled a question in advance, that would not be possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u25	Mr President, if you do not want me to intervene, I will not intervene. But by correction, rather than filing ten questions, I had tabled only one, which covered the various themes. Then I do not have the opportunity to express myself about the rest homes. I shall then wait for the next debate if you do not want us to speak on the subject, but I will remember above all the lesson in terms of method for the next committee. I was correct to avoid multiplying the number of questions, but in the end, I am not properly taken into account. I take note of your decision, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u26	I did it for the questions that brought together different themes. I didn't do a thorough analysis to determine what fell within what category. It is true that the issue of nursing homes is somewhat cross-cutting too. We'll talk about it later. But you all understand that we have two and a half hours, no more than three hours, and we have fifty questions. We need to find a way forward. I suggest we talk about it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u27	Our group understood that it was an actua debate, and I have prepared an additional question to that effect. I don't know how much room there is left for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u28	About the residential care centers, you mean? Now we really want to move on to the subject of testing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u29	I have one reasonably urgent question, following a report in the media.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u30	Okay, 30 seconds. If anyone wants to ask a quick question about the residential care centres that have not yet been answered, they can do so now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u31	Mr Minister, my question is very brief. This morning a message appeared in the media from a geriatric who could be admitted to visit early or not in any way, in defined circumstances, so that visits can be made in residential care centres and other health care institutions if certain measures are complied with.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u32	Mrs. Fonck, I'm coming back to you by correction. I will give 30 seconds of time to any member who has asked, so to speak, a sub-question in another question on the subject of rest homes. If you have additional questions that have not been asked or have not yet received an answer, you can ask them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll go straight to the point. Minister, 210,000 tests? I'm a little surprised to hear you and I'd like you to clarify that number again. You explain to us that it was the Regions that determined the list of staff that could be tested in a nursing home, in addition to obviously all residents. At the same time, just for Wallonia – I do not have the figures for Brussels and Flanders – 130,000 tests would be required. A request was made to that effect. Now, you are announcing here about 67,000 tests for the Walloon Region. So I feel like there's a hiatus? Perhaps this has just been settled in the Interministerial Conference. Can you confirm to me whether this is the case and what about the staff between the 60,000 tests you have authorised and the 130,000 tests required for the Walloon Region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u34	Mr President, as far as the first question is concerned, we have discussed it, but it is now up to the National Security Council to decide on it. That question has been considered and the experts are now asked to consider what the consequences might be. After all, we know that there is a great need for visitation and contact in residential care centres on the one hand, but on the other hand, as you yourself have said, there is still a great danger in a very vulnerable population. As for Mrs Fonck's questions, we have indeed spoken with the various federated entities this weekend. It was decided this morning in the Interministerial Committee that 67,000 tests would be allocated to Wallonia in the first wave. We have already planned the second wave too and 20,000 tests have already been carried out last week. Tests will be carried out on nursing homes per nursing home, which will allow federated entities to take targeted action. For the first 20 000 tests, the Regions decided to test some rest homes in their entirety, but also to do a kind of sampling in the various rest homes, to see whether or not VOCID-19 is present. The testing capabilities will then be increased in these different rest homes. It is therefore agreed that in the first wave of tests, it is the Regions which determine their own priorities, which seems logical to me because they are on the ground and therefore understand where the need for rapid testing lies. The figure of 67,000 second wave tests corresponds to the tests that will be available in Wallonia. However, we will continue afterwards! It's not over after two, three weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u35	Thank you. We now turn to the second theme of the day, that of testing. It seems to me that all the political groups have tabled questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u36	Mr Minister, we are still not at 10,000 tests a day. We now carry out 5,000 to 6,000 tests a day, even though laboratories have informed us that they are not at their full test capacity. So they can handle more tests than they did today. One of the reasons why there are no more tests lies in the famous criteria for testing. As a general practitioner, I can testify that this is a serious problem on the premises. One can only be tested individually if one has to be hospitalized. If one is a health care provider, one must have a fever. In addition, only five persons per institution may be tested; other rules apply to residential care centres. That is, of course, a major problem for the doctors, because we cannot properly diagnose it. We cannot test patients with atypical symptoms, even though our knowledge of the disease is increasing. For example, I had two patients who didn't have all the symptoms and who worked in a residential care center. Five days later, they tested positive, because they eventually joined the famous screening campaign. Mr Minister, when will you change the criteria so that we can test general practitioners? I have a similar question with regard to the protective material. According to the guidelines on the website regarding wearing masks, FFP2 masks should only be worn if aerosolising treatments are performed. It is not even proposed to wear surgical masks in every action we do in patients, whether they are symptomatic or asymptomatic, I really do not understand. A high percentage of asymptomatic staff turned out to be COVID-19-positive. However, it is not recommended that general practitioners wear masks for each patient contact. Those directives are no longer justified. When will you finally change the guidelines for the field tests and the protection directives for healthcare providers in the first line?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u37	Minister, I have some questions about the tests. The first is about the way in which the pharmaceutical sector is engaged. We've all read the letter the clinical biologists wrote about the way of testing. Reference is now made to the pharmaceutical sector and the large labs. There is no longer any need for interpretation of clinical biologists. I come to my second question. Last week I did not get an answer to my question about the scientific explanation why antigen tests are allowed and antibody tests are prohibited. Are you holding on to that ban? The GPs have received a letter from a number of labs stating that they are validating the tests, so that the GPs themselves can proceed to test their patients. My third question concerns the exit strategy. How do you see it? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u38	The connection's been cut off, Mrs. Depoorter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u39	Can I take that right away, Mr President? Mr Minister, I shall begin with a question on testing capacity. Last week in plenary, you called on the experts to give a broader interpretation of the test criteria, but that was apparently not agreed in advance. Has there been any prior consultation? If so, at what times? What reason do they give not to test wider? What is the advice of the long-term experts? Will that change at some point? What's the timeline like? Then I have another question about the CT scans. What is the proportion of the diagnoses that are made via CT scan? Is that recorded at patient level or is that per test? So could it be that there are double registrations, both from the PCR and from the CT scan, when it comes to one and the same patient? Do the CT scans also have the same test criteria? In other words, do patients have to meet the same criteria to qualify for a diagnosis based on a CT scan? Finally, various scientific studies show that PCR testing of a steel coming out of the nose or throat is especially reliable in the first time after an infection. Over time, the viral load decreases and the symptoms become clearer, which is an expression of the immune response that runs a bit crazy. What's your idea on that? Do you think PCR testing is therefore better used in patients who have onset symptoms and not in patients who are hospitalized? Would it be more appropriate in those patients to work with a CT scan?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u40	I'm starting the COVID-19 tests in general. It has been reported, even today in committee, that we pass the 10 000 tests a day. But when I look at the website of Sciensano, it is clearly visible that we do not yet pass the 6 500 tests a day. That is why my question to the Minister is: what is the reason for this? Do we have enough chemical, e.g. reagents? Isn't the roll-out on site as fast as expected? What exactly is this roll-out like? I would have liked to have more explanation as to why we are not achieving the 10 000 today. This morning at the press conference, I heard the number of 13 000. Then the figures on Sciensano's website wouldn't be right. I would like more clarity on that. My second question concerns the immunity tests. About two weeks ago, the Minister informed us that we would have a capacity of 40 to 50 000 immunity tests at our disposal. Are those tests available in the meantime? How is its distribution planned? Who will be eligible? Are priorities given to the most affected regions in our country? How do we see the capacity roll-out within the labs, as we are still not achieving the target of 10 000 today in terms of ordinary COOVID-19 tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u41	Mr President, Minister, my question overlaps somewhat with what I have heard from colleagues. You have already expressed your frustration several times about the very strict criteria of the RMG which would not allow the tests to be rolled out to a sufficient extent. You said last Thursday that you would be patient until after the weekend and that you would take initiatives yourself.We heard from Professor Erika Vlieghe that she has always been a asking party to broaden those criteria, but that it simply could not be because there were too few tests. This is a ping-pong game and now I want to know exactly what the fork is like. Moreover, more importantly, if I understand correctly, have these criteria now been extended to residential care centres, or am I mistaken? However, they are still too little open to solve, for example, the problem raised by Mrs Merckx. When do you expect 10,000 tests per day to be carried out in a smooth way, so that everyone who needs to be tested is actually tested? Can you tell us what criteria you would prefer to see even wider?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u42	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, we have dealt a lot with the issue of nursing home testing, but not at all with those that could be performed in centres for persons with disabilities. I would therefore like to know whether the screening campaign in nursing homes could also benefit these centres in the short term. I would also like to hear from you about pharmacies, which could play a role in carrying out screening and serology tests. Indeed, the Association of Pharmacists of Belgium has affirmed the availability of their pharmacies for the purpose of applying these tests. Are you going to explore this track when their progress has reached maturity? It should also be recalled that 4,200 out of the 4,800 pharmacies in Belgium have remained open. Then, what about the distribution of screening tests among the Regions? We know that the distribution of coronavirus cases is almost the same as that of the population in the three regions, although the number of deaths does not necessarily coincide with it. Therefore, Minister, what are the objective reasons that ultimately prompted the Risk Management Group to divide the tests according to a demographic key and not according to the number of cases or deaths caused by the coronavirus?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Rohonyi. I am told that the quality of the sound is deceivable. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to cut off your camera while you speak. When you're done, you'll turn off your microphone and turn on your camera. I hear that if you turn off the camera, the sound quality is much better. This is essential for interpreters. Mrs Creemers, if you'd like to turn off your camera and turn on your micro, you can speak for two minutes now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u44	Mr President, I have done so. There might be a little delay because my camera was off the minute you asked. I have a question about the immunity tests. Questions have already been asked by my colleagues about the state of play, the numbers and the permits. I wonder what the strategy will be as we read more and more in the newspapers and scientific research that we know too little about immunity in relation to this virus. If we hear that patients in Wuhan have been through the virus twice, and we hear the same thing in a severely affected area in Germany and again today read in studies that immunity cannot be guaranteed, then I wonder whether we should not change our exit strategy to that. To what extent have the exit strategy and immunity tests been connected? How do you feel about that? What are the experts' views on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u45	Mr. Chair, Minister, according to all the figures given to us, there is a real distortion between the number of tests for VOCID-19 that our country is able to carry out and those that we are actually carrying out. More than 10,000 tests have been announced. The figures updated on 13 April indicated 5,420 tests. Why is there no real enlargement of screening? I am thinking, of course, of front-line caregivers, but also of people at risk, who are more vulnerable. Minister, you said you would take your responsibilities if the experts did not change their position on the screening criteria. Where are we today? The inter-federal spokesman announced that more than 13,000 tests have been carried out in the last 24 hours: 11,000 in nursing homes – which is why we are advancing on this side – and 2,500 tests in the conventional network where screening seems to be decreasing. Could you give us an update? As far as distribution is concerned, I would like to ask you the same question as my colleague. Today, we know that there are more than 33,500 confirmed cases of VOCID-19 in the country: 59% in Flanders, 30% in Wallonia, 10% in Brussels. However, when we look at the death figures, we can see that in Flanders, the percentage is decreasing to 51%, but it is increasing in Wallonia to 34% and in Brussels to 30%. Minister, could you give us an account of the number of tests carried out to date in the various regions of the country? Why are these data not included in daily epidemiological reports? However, in order to allow for a concerted, coherent and controlled breakdown, these data are absolutely essential. Last week, you relied on the combination of various tests that combined PCR tests with serological and immunological tests to consider progressive deconfination. You said serological tests to find out who is immune, including that of the CHU of Liège, were under study. Emmanuel André said on Tuesday that it would take time to choose the best. However, it is our responsibility that a supplier should have been chosen. What exactly is the situation? Can you answer this question clearly? I would like to conclude by saying that our country has everything in its hands to move forward. We have the technology, the skills, the initiatives of laboratories and universities. Nevertheless, things don't seem to be moving forward at the gallop. All this time is lost, and this lost time is also lost lives. This is incomprehensible!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u46	Mr President, Minister, at last more tests are being carried out. That happens, after the hospitals, now also in the residential care centers, but nowhere do I hear that there is also being tested in psychogeriatry. Although these institutions often have a similar climate to the many residential care centres, they do not seem to be tested there. At least that's what I hear from my sources in the field. Certain psychogeriatric hospitals are connected to a toilet or even in the same building. How many tests have already been carried out in the psychogeriatric services and what were the results? Is the number of tests extended there too? How many corona patients have been reported there? How many coronados does that sector count? I also have the same questions for disability care. I heard this afternoon that there is already a bit more testing there, but reports from various institutions reach me that they are not being tested. How many tests have already been carried out in the disability care centres and what were the results? Is the number of tests extended there too? How many corona patients have been reported there? How many coronados does that sector count?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u47	Mr. Chair, Minister, there are several points I would like to draw your attention to. Last week and even before, I had already argued for an analysis of the testing criteria because many of them are problematic. For nursing homes, it's now decided and it's so much better, but what about a whole range of other people who are particularly fragile and who are currently denied testing? I am thinking, for example, of people with disabilities, some of whom have just spoken, but also of immunocompromised people, such as transplant patients, children or dialysis services, who are now facing an extremely delicate situation with fragile patients entering and leaving the hospital. You remember that I also asked you about the example of a child who couldn't be tested when he was sick and his dad died. What about the enlargement of testing criteria? Secondly, of the overall capacity, 10,000 tests per day is more than before, but this remains little in relation to the needs. Do the 6,000 tests announced by GSK come in addition? If this is not the case, I will come back to it when we address the issue of laboratories. What about the objective that should be achieved in both PCR tests and serology tests that will obviously be essential? On the serology side, what about the certification of ZenTech tests that are already used abroad and that are still waiting for us at home? What about the importance of determining the percentage of our population that is immune? If so, what percentage is that? Many other countries tested a representative sample of a few thousand people. Would it not be essential for us to do the same in order to foresee the strategy of deconfining? Finally, there is the whole stake of clinical biology laboratories. Mr President, if I am not mistaken, this will be the subject of the next issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u48	Indeed, Mrs. Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u49	Minister, I want to ask you about the equipment and supply of drugs. I thank you, on behalf of my group, for the many answers you have been able to provide between last week's committee and today. However, the situation persists. So here are my four questions. Last week, I was asking you about the stocks of drugs. You told me that there was no shortage and that there would be no shortage. All right! However, there is a problem somewhere because the information is not satisfactory. The comments and testimonies of doctors are more than appealing about the use of veterinary medicines, about forced changes in treatment, about the lack of delivery information, about problematic uses of sedation, about patient selections, about people to be intubated or not. I read to you: "We are asked to send an e-mail two days before our stocks are exhausted and, after only five days, we are told that a delivery truck is on its way." You realize, at a time when you can follow almost live its most common online purchase! If there is indeed no shortage of specialities, this situation is all the more incomprehensible. I am not a doctor, but it seems clear to me that these professionals cannot be left in such unknowns. Should we not, at the very least, have more communication and transparency on these stocks for practitioners? Could you please tell me what emergency delivery procedure has been put in place? Who evaluates it and what adjustments are envisaged to ensure information? I asked, several weeks ago, how the services of the AFMPS had been strengthened. Is that the case? Secondly, we continue to hear numerous testimonies about the lack of protective equipment in hospitals, particularly in medical imaging services, but also in ambulatory care (masks, blouses, visors). What about it? Do you have any encrypted data? Moreover, considering the words of the inter-federal spokesman on the wearing of the generalized mask from the beginning of the deconfination, how is the government preparing for it? Third, do you confirm that there is a shortage of oxygen cans in outpatient care? What measures are being taken to ensure access to oxygen for people with respiratory problems? Finally, do you confirm a decrease in chronic drug use? Is an analysis carried out to define the magnitude and risks of the risk?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Taquin. Your question seems to me to belong to the "Material" section. We will retain her and I will leave the minister to judge the appropriate time to answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u51	Mr President, Minister, I would first like to express a general concern. We've all seen the news about the past Easter weekend. I have been very concerned about citizens who believe that it is not so close. These people have a crushing responsibility if it turns out that the number of hospitalisations, the number of people in intensive care is increasing again in the next few days. On the other hand, they may not be entirely blamed. If some mayors, including those of the largest city in Flanders, call for general disobedience in a facebook ad, why shouldn't those citizens disobey? Mr Minister, you just mentioned your agreement with the regions to roll out the tests in the residential care centres. That is also necessary, because we have seen the real figures for the first time today. It has already been whispered that a large proportion of reported deaths in residential care centres are probably not due to COOVID-19. I have seen in this morning's figures that out of the 2,000 deaths reported in the residential care centres, only 63 are certainly due to COOVID-19. Then there is clearly something wrong with the reporting, especially if the results of the first tests show that half of the people who have symptoms of COVID-19, afterwards do not have the virus. I am going to discuss this further on Friday during the actua debate with Minister De Block. Minister, I would like to stress that the task force under your leadership has already achieved a lot of results. In addition to the agreement with the regions on these tests, we can soon expect the first masks produced in our country. That is also necessary, because from the start of this crisis, until last week, it has been shown that a lot of unreliable products are being delivered in our country. Fortunately, a quality check is always done first. On the other hand, this is something that worries me, because here and there I see actions by certain municipalities, organisations and even political parties that distribute mouth masks with certificates, but I wonder if these certificates are reliable. I would have liked to have had some more information from you on the discussion on the one hand of ventilation equipment and on the other hand of the supply of oxygen to residential care centres. Deficiencies are feared in residential care centres and it has already been decided that elderly people who still need oxygen will stay in hospital and not be sent to residential care centres to relieve them in this way. Is the problem of oxygen supply to residential care centres now under control?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u52	Mr President, it is very commendable for you and the services to have divided our meeting into several themes. However, we realize the difficulty of being able to stick to it. Hence the frustration of some colleagues. Is it not appropriate to launch the third theme before the minister answers, as he has already begun to address this issue? It seems to me wise - for the sake of consistency - to bring together themes 2 and 3, since they deal respectively with tests and laboratories.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u53	I don't know what the minister thinks. I propose that he answer already and that we deal separately with the six questions relating to laboratories. Let's follow what's been decided. Next, we will conduct an evaluation of our methodology. In my view, the more the themes are grouped, the more likely the answers are to become general. But everyone is waiting for specific answers to their questions. We're already at 16 about testing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u54	Mr President, I will immediately answer the questions about the labs and why certain labs sometimes say that they are not eligible. I can answer that very briefly and clearly. I will briefly explain the origins of the central consortium and why it has been chosen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u55	Mr Minister, I am sorry to interrupt you, but if you want to talk about the laboratories, I have to ask the questions about the laboratories first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u56	Mr President, I will briefly outline the origins. Then it's clear how it went.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u57	Mr Minister, first you can answer the questions about the tests. Members will then ask their questions about the laboratories. Otherwise, it's gonna be too hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u58	All right, Mr President. I thought I'd help you, but that wasn't the case. Excuse me. For testing it is clear that we want to go to a strategy to use PCR testing for the diagnosis in patients. If you want to know if people are carriers of the virus, PCR testing is necessary. In a second phase, it is important to follow the immunity of the population or certain groups. For this purpose, serological tests and immunity tests can be performed. We started rolling out the PCR testing because that rising curve requires PCR testing. The figures show that we have managed to go from 1,500 to 2,000 tests a day to 5,000 to 6,000 tests a day. Why haven't we reached a higher grade yet? There are several reasons. Last week, I had a very close consultation with both RAG experts, RMG and Sciensano experts to find out why the original recommendation to test only symptomatic patients and only five residents per residential care centre was maintained. This is, of course, a logical strategy at a time when there are effective problems with the availability of reagents, erasers and other test capacity. However, this test capacity has now been expanded, which has also been recognised. Thus, the criteria on which one can base to prescribe the test have been extended to include influenza-like symptoms. Therefore, people who have flu symptoms may also be eligible for a test. However, it is always the prescriber who determines whether a test is taken or not. A doctor must, in all conscience, decide whether or not it is a good thing that people are being tested. That decision lies with them effectively. It has also been recognised that there is a need for additional testing in certain collections, not only residential centres but also youth institutions, disability institutions and others. We had a conversation with the regions about this. They set the priorities of all this, but there is an effective possibility of testing the whole of a youth or disabled institution where an outbreak was detected. They are then included in the strategy to be tested on the central platform. Of course, the capacity is not unlimited and one has to take into account that one can only test other collections than 1 or 2 days later. The overall strategy is to use serological and immunity tests. Initially, we saw that the tests we saw appear on the market through among others pharmacies and doctors were absolutely not validated. They gave too many false negative and false positive results. These serological tests are intended to investigate how we can detect the accumulated immunity as soon as possible. I understand that this is not obvious. I have been asked to apply immunity tests already, but I have also been asked whether there is enough clarity about these immunity tests. Some even say that they are not going to be useful because there is too little antibody titre present in patients. This shows that there are indeed some complications for serological tests. That's why we started to validate the tests three weeks ago already, even the CE-marked tests, to be sure that the tests are valid and know how to use them. This serological component plays an important role from an epidemiological point of view but also for the exit strategy, if we have to do, like many countries, test and trace, that is, when a patient is tested positive, we need to know the different contacts he has had and to follow up for the people who have been in contact with him. These people need to be tested, too. Patients with symptoms are tested with PCR and asymptomatic patients should be tested after one or two weeks, depending on the serological test used. That is the strategy followed. Meanwhile, several serological tests have been validated by different labs. Some of them have been cited in the questions, but there are others. We have also worked with European partners for this and are now securing some of those tests in Belgium. I'd like to warn you about one case. There's a lot of announcements in the papers. The tests would be validated and available. Some reports are correct, others are not, but the tests have not yet been produced. We already have contacts with several companies to bring the serological tests to Belgium as soon as possible. At the moment they will be there, we will also start to apply them, not through the central platform, which serves to increase PCR testing capacity, but through the circuit of regular general practitioners and clinical labs in contact with hospitals. That's the deployment strategy for the serological tests. Meanwhile, we have already been able to place orders with a number of companies. At the moment the production starts, we will be delivered and the tests will be available on the Belgian market, in a clinical setting. I have just explained why the figures are so low. There is an effective increase in capacity, including for PCR tests. We have opted for the collectivity in order to use the capacity for the very sensitive groups to the maximum. With regard to the protection material made available, we follow the recommendations of the RMG. We have extended the criteria in consultation with Sciensano and the RMG. It's up to the doctors to apply it now. As far as the CT scans are concerned, they take place in the hospitals. The doctors there are perfectly capable of using that technology. It is also used in several hospitals. We are now looking at how we can automate that process on the basis of the first results, European and worldwide. I don't have any figures of the number of CT scans used for diagnostic purposes, but the CT scans are used by the doctors on the spot in each hospital for the diagnosis and follow-up of patients. I hope that has clarified our strategy. Perhaps a final response on sampling that can be done on serological tests to determine how the virus is already present in the population. Here too, two studies are under way. Two or three weeks ago, different organizations began organizing sampling in collaboration with blood banks and different laboratories. We are currently waiting for the results of the first analyses to determine the percentage of the population affected by VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u59	Minister, as I said in my introduction, we as general practitioners, and other specialists in the field too, want to be able to perform these PCRs. It is therefore urgent to review these criteria. You're saying today, we could do the tests if we have people with influenza symptoms. I remind you that there are many atypical symptoms. To date, the recommendations and criteria for reimbursement by INAMI have not been modified on the site. We therefore urgently need to change this because we need to be able to do these tests right now, not tomorrow. Secondly, if it is true that you are going to expand the criteria, please expand them as soon as possible on the website so that in the field we can do the tests and ensure that the labs are running at full efficiency. I find it criminal that the labs tell me they could do more tests but don't do it because they're not sure they're being paid by INAMI. As far as serological tests are concerned, I also insist. I find it positive that we will be able to carry them out via peripheral laboratories. Doctors will be able to perform these tests through their laboratory. It's the most important thing for us: to know if the people we've been treating – cashiers, restockers, police officers, all these jobs that are at work today – and who have been sick at home, have done the VOCID-19 or not. It's very important. It is therefore necessary to use these serological tests in the field and to know who should be kept at work and who should be removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u60	Mr President, Minister, I would like to hear you say that the doctor can decide when or not to carry out a test. I'd like to invite you to practice sometime. The doctors were very clearly advised that they should only test patients when symptoms occur. However, we know that patients are most contagious if they do not yet have symptoms and are in the early stages of the disease. So you say that the doctor can determine, but if a patient does not meet the criteria, reimbursement is not provided for. Thus some patients are paying for the test and others are not paying for the test. I can also give you countless examples of patients who have turned to triage costs but have not received any tests. I can also show you tests taken by general practitioners, who weren't even examined by the lab because the patient didn't meet the criteria. I therefore consider your answer to be really inadequate and I invite you to go into the field of work or to discuss it again with your experts. You haven't answered my questions about the antigen tests and antibody tests. Why are antigen tests allowed and antibody tests banned? Why are certain reagents and certain tests confiscated in a particular laboratory in Wallonia? For the fourth time, I would ask you to accept one type of test and the other. I would also like to talk about blood banks and plasma treatment, because a good study has indeed been published in this area. Last week I asked you a question about the auto-vaccination you answered in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u61	Mrs Depoorter, I would ask you to conclude your reply, since you have used up the two-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u62	Mr President, I will be very brief. Minister, a member of your services replied in writing that this does not apply here. I've been going through it again with virologists. Just in this type of virus, autogenic vaccination might help. I invite you to look into that again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u63	Mr Minister, like Mrs Depoorter, I am very surprised to hear that it is up to the doctors to determine whether or not someone can be tested. The test criteria have not changed yet, not on the website of Sciensano. I don't quite understand what you're talking about. It would be a good thing if it were. I have not yet heard the reasons given by the experts not to change the test policy and therefore not to extend it further, unless the test criteria have changed in the meantime. Then this should also be mentioned on the website of Sciensano. Furthermore, I regret that I have not heard anything about testing with CT scans in the positive diagnosis figures. That seems important to me. It is not clear to me whether these figures will get to Sciensano. According to the documents I find on the Internet, but it could also be double testing. Someone can test positive with a CT scan and then also with a PCR test. I also did not hear you say anything about the stage of infection and the applicability of PCR in it. Is it true that PCR testing would rather be used differently than is currently the case?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u64	Minister, I do wonder whether this will ensure that everyone across the whole landscape is given the same care if we are responsible for determining whether or not a test is being carried out on general practitioners. I have already asked a question about this in plenary. Today we already see a lot of competition at hospital level: some hospitals in West Flanders test all patients, while in Limburg patients are only tested if they are effectively vulnerable and show severe symptoms. So I am asking myself questions about this strategy. I also did not get an answer to the question as to why we are not getting those 10,000 tests today. I would like to make it clear that it is certainly not the chemicals or reagents, because I have heard from several labs that they have not yet been called upon to cooperate in the production of reagents in Belgium, although they are available to do so. I will therefore put that question in writing again in order to obtain a concrete answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer and for clarifying the problem of the criteria. So I note that the criteria have indeed been extended and that general practitioners can decide for themselves whether or not to take a test. When you said that, my first idea was that this wasn't communicated properly, because I hear other sounds on the premises. When I hear the reaction of my fellow Members, I can only conclude the same thing. I therefore propose that, in the next few days and weeks, we pay particular attention to communication so that everyone in the field knows what is going on and so that we know that the criteria have been extended, because there is clearly still a serious problem there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u66	Minister, thank you for your half-full answers. Two weeks ago, in plenary session, you committed yourself to combining screening and immunity tests from the point of view of deconfination. We see today that these are far from being sufficiently developed because of their lack of reliability. You indicate that it is up to the prescribing physicians to determine whether a test can be performed and that it is the responsibility of the Regions to decide whether tests can be carried out in centres for persons with disabilities. However, this means either increasing the envelope of the 210,000 tests that remain, as I said, insufficient, or choosing between their beneficiaries – an option that I find difficult to accept. In my opinion, the only option is to multiply the possibilities of performing and analyzing these tests. That is why I regret the absence of an answer to my question about pharmacies. The proactivity and multiplicity of screening networks can contribute to an effective fight against the spread of the virus, not to mention that the pharmacy is a secure space, endowed with a certain expertise and enjoying the confidence of the population. When we hear that few tests are conducted because they require the presence of a doctor, it appears that the path of pharmacies must be really dug.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for your partial reply. Immunity tests will mainly be used in the second phase. We are in full preparation, although there is still uncertainty as to who will be tested and who will not. However, I would like to call on you to think very carefully about this in view of the exit strategy. Let the scientists give you good advice in this area, because if it turns out that all those people who have experienced a mild form of the disease also have few antibodies, then that second phase may well be greater than we think and can handle. I hope that we will get in-depth studies from other countries that are further advanced in this epidemic and that we will be able to integrate them into our exit strategy before we draw wrong conclusions about immunity and use them to re-open the doors massively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u68	Minister, with respect to the screening criteria, you announced that you would take your responsibilities to expand them, but today there is no change in these criteria. In any case, Sciensano has not changed anything, nothing appears on the site. I did not hear any answer as to the gap between the announced test capability and the tests performed. I have not heard a reply on the distribution of tests carried out to date according to the regions. This is an important element for the future deconfinity. I have not heard an answer on the question of the analysis of the different serological tests and the choice of supplier. We know that the solution will come from the combination of tests. As far as serological and immunological tests are concerned, the argument that there is not enough immune population does not hold our view. There's still a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u69	Mr President, Minister, I understand that I will have to ask my colleagues in the Flemish Parliament to ask a question about disability care, because I have not received an answer. I hope that disability care will also be able to rely on testing capacity, mouth masks and protective equipment. After all, I am told that this is even very shabby. As far as my question on psychogeriatry is concerned, I believe that this is a federal competence, but I did not really get an answer to that. Why isn't there being tested? Especially for the psychogeriatric hospitals that are connected to a toilet or even located in the same building as a toilet, one may assume that there is also being tested, but apparently that is not the case. Under pressure from public opinion, tests are now being carried out mainly in residential care centres, fortunately and finally, but we must also not forget psycho-geriatric services. I am sorry that you did not reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u70	Mrs. Fonck, I don't see you. Are you among us?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u71	Yes, Mr. President. I always cut my camera to try to facilitate the overall effort. Minister, what I remember from your answer is the "freedom of the prescribing doctor". It is obviously not at all the same as what appeared on April 1st and what still appears on the Sciensano site at the level of the testing guidelines. I therefore ask you to be able to modify today the official testing guidelines on the Sciensano site so that all doctors in the field have the same type of information and do not find themselves in difficulty, as we see today. In fact, today, some can do tests and others can not, which obviously directly penalizes the patients concerned. In terms of overall capacity, as you know, on the PCR side, 10,000 tests per day, this remains insufficient. I still don't see what's going on. Is this due to a lack of reagents or to a lack of personnel necessary for the front or post-management of the test itself? Finally, you explain to us that for serological tests, it is not yet safe but that it is on the way to being safe. However, I would have liked a clear commitment on the dates, especially since, if I understand correctly, a sampling is under way with tests that you are presenting as not yet secure at this stage. It is known that the Imperial College study estimates an immunization rate of 3.7% for Belgium. It will be important to have these tests and to have the result of the Belgian sampling to know what the rate of immunosupplies is but above all to have very quickly serological tests that can be actually used, distributed and carried out in pharmacy as foreseen by the Swiss model.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u72	Ms. Taquin, would you like to reply now or keep your reply for later because your question was about the material? You have a choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u73	Mr President, I like to reply now if I may. Minister, the testimony we have from the field is very disturbing and I want to reply now to push the nail. It is essential that contacts be permanent and direct with professionals regarding the management of drug stocks, just as it is important that you master direct and unique communication outside the mails and forms to be filled out. I raised this point in plenary before the confinement with Minister De Block. Minister, I know very well that the situation is very complicated and that you are doing the utmost. This situation is already so at the local level. I therefore imagine the work that is being done and that is necessary because lives are at stake. However, it is essential for professionals to be considered and to receive information on the stocks of medicines and equipment that directly concern them first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u74	We now turn to the topic of laboratories. Mr Bertels, you have the floor for your questions concerning laboratories.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u75	Of course, Minister, we are all pleased that more tests can be carried out. As you said last week, all these samples must be analysed in the laboratories provided for. We will undoubtedly be able to discuss the freedom of the prescriber and the reimbursement of the tests that have been carried out in those laboratories with Minister De Block on Friday. You will also be aware that the RIZIV has imposed a moratorium on the reimbursement of certain laboratories during the month of March. But that is a question for Mrs De Block about the payments. My question to you is this. Which labs are eligible for the mass testing analysis, which is good. In the residential care centres it was often done through the coordinating and consulting doctor, the CRA. Fortunately, that is now being extended to other clinical labs. That makes sense, I think. For example, these may be hospital labs, which means that there is no necessary link between the CRA and a private lab like before, when there were fewer tests. I do not quite understand the criteria on which the laboratories of the pharmaceutical industry are allowed. Have these labs been approved, accredited according to current regulations? What are the conditions for this? Wasn't there enough testing capacity in the already-accredited clinical labs? Isn't that how there's a hundred in Belgium? On the ground there is also the question of why a great deal of capacity is now allocated to the laboratories of the pharmaceutical industry. I'm sure you can explain why. It is being watched over, I suppose, that enough wipers and reagents remain available for the hospital labs, which must of course also continue to run. So far, my questions that live on the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u76	Mr. Chairman, 45 laboratories sent a letter to Minister De Backer expressing their dissatisfaction with the fact that they had been bypassed with the testing in the rest homes. Why have we chosen industry and not peripheral laboratories? Why didn't you do what the labs asked for, that the pharmaceutical companies deliver the sampling equipment and the reagents so that they could do the tests? There were problems with the samples delivered to the nursing homes. What is the maximum capacity of private and central laboratories? Mr. Minister, you said that doctors can take the samples if they deem it necessary in the light of symptoms. This is not the case today. The peripheral laboratories have made this known, they do not do so because it is not reimbursed by INAMI. It will take another 15 days to deliver on this promise. Are you committed to changing the reimbursement criteria by tomorrow so that the peripheral laboratories can perform more PCR tests and thus use their actual capacity?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u77	Minister, the Belgian Professional Union of Specialist Physicians has indicated that the 45 laboratories approved to develop screening tests – crucial in our fight against coronavirus – have been ruled out by the government for the benefit of industrial laboratories. I listened to you on public television and explained that this choice was justified by the fact that accredited laboratories do not have the necessary reagents to carry out the PCR tests on a large scale. Except that in the meantime, you have explained on numerous occasions that other certified tests could have been developed throughout Belgium – particularly in university laboratories – and that these laboratories had been approved precisely to carry out these tests. In addition, it is my responsibility that several doctors will not have the results of their serology tests because the government's decision has had the effect of depriving the accredited laboratories not only of the necessary reagents but also of the INAMI code in order to be able to make a refund. Minister, have you met with clinical biologists to ease their fears? What additional guarantees can pharmaceutical companies give to specialists trained to carry out these tests, knowing that these firms are not subject to the same control requirements and repayment conditions as approved laboratories? What about the investments made by approved laboratories? Is there a cadastre of needs and a cadastre of production capacities? If so, what conclusions can you draw? Why not take advantage of the expertise and availability of university laboratories to conduct tests to increase our capacity? I am thinking of the serological test developed by the CHU of Liège, which is convincing, scientifically validated and even requested by foreign countries? What do we expect in Belgium to use it? Finally, what become of the results of the tests carried out by the approved laboratories? We're talking about hundreds of tests today that are waiting for analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u78	Minister, I will summarize my remarks. I would like to relay the total incomprehension on the part of the representatives of the clinical biology laboratories and the professional unions of the clinical biologists. There are two important aspects: the testing capacity and the patient's. In terms of testing capacity, is the decision you have made regarding the laboratories of the pharmaceutical industry to entrust an additional testing capacity or is it a capacity in place of the laboratories that are now doing PCR testing with or without reagents or in any case with different reagents, whether hospital or non-hospital? The challenge is to be able to multiply the number of laboratories, to maximize our testing capacity, since it is one of the most effective armed arms in the fight against VOCID-19. On the patient's side, what about reimbursement in relation to your latest decisions? Finally, additional question: in comparison with this decision on laboratories in the pharmaceutical industry, what is the cost per testing compared to other tests carried out by laboratories? It comes to my mind that for the test put in place by university researchers, the cost is sometimes derisory and corresponds only to the cost of the equipment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u79	Mr President, Minister, I will go right to the point and I hope that you are attentive because my questions will be direct. Have you decided to permanently remove 50 approved clinical biology laboratories to perform VOCID tests while they should be expanded. Why was such a decision taken when several laboratories, including academics, had for weeks offered a very large analytical capacity of several thousand tests per day, and those same accredited laboratories had made significant investments, especially at the beginning of the crisis? Why entrust the monopoly of these tests to the pharmaceutical industry whose primary mission is not a priori? Who will conduct serological testing in the future? Minister, I think it might be more appropriate, in this difficult time, to bring all the forces together by distributing the reagents wherever the analytical capabilities are, and I will end my speech with a testimony. This morning I had contact with a president of CPAS in the province of Hainaut and he told me that the staff of his nursing homes had been tested last Thursday and Friday respectively and that the results arrived this morning. So people were tested on Thursday and Friday and the results arrived this morning. This delay is far too long and raises questions, in particular: these people, who may be positive, have continued to work all weekend, as well as Monday and Tuesday. Thank you for your answers, which I hope will be precise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u80	Mr President, following the Belga release on 9 April, we were, to say the least, very surprised at your decision to evacuate clinical biology laboratories for the benefit of industrial laboratories. Forty-five of these laboratories have invested since the beginning of the crisis in carrying out all these tests for VOCID-19, and while we need all the necessary forces to test massively, the government decides to reserve testing to four laboratories. It's quite incomprehensible, unless you give us clear answers. You said yesterday on television that these clinical laboratories were not able to detect on a large scale because they did not have enough reagents and that is why you asked the pharmaceutical laboratories to come and build capacity. First, reagents – like swabs – are bought. Is there also a shortage problem, e.g. in relation to swabs? If the Pharmaes can get it, I don't see why they can't provide it to the clinical labs. Second, you said that the Pharmas were doing tests almost for free. I can't imagine pharmaceutical companies suddenly becoming philanthropists. Can you explain very precisely what repayment agreements have been made with these four pharmaceutical companies? How could clinical biology laboratories not benefit from the same reimbursement agreements? Third, you finally stated that clinical laboratories would be used to perform serological tests. Why only these tests? And in a word, what is the health strategy behind this decision? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when Maggie De Block asked me three and a half weeks ago to lead the task force testing, the first thing we did with the people around the table, including some of the people from the reference lab, was to look at how we strengthen and scale up the capacity that exists in clinical labs. We have had several conversations with different clinical labs connected to universities and residential care centers with the question of what their capacity was to scale up. Then the answer was very clear: little, because there is no access to reagents and there is a shortage of erasers, so that at that time there could not be scaled up to 20,000 to 30,000 PCR tests per day. All these labs work with different machines, reagents and protocols. At that time those protocols were not validated, so logistics was not possible to support all those labs, all the more so because we already had discussions with their suppliers at that time about whether they could provide additional capacity of reagents and others to the clinical labs in our country. The answer was no. They could not guarantee this, they could not guarantee for all these different types of machines and protocols that up to 20,000 tests could be carried out daily. The choice that was made then was to look at the universities. The University of Namur had a protocol of charité, published by the World Health Organization, which was adapted to work with fewer reagents. That is the first thing we have had further supported, developed, validated by the FAGG. That's the protocol that was rolled out in six university labs, which are today connected to hospitals and serve for overflow. What does that mean? If there are more samples coming into a hospital lab than it can handle, the universities can follow and run additional tests. That was the first piste that was set up. It has been functioning for some time with a capacity of about 2,000 tests per day. Then an additional solution has been found through a number of biotech companies that have contacted us. They could perhaps, on the basis of that protocol of charité of the University of Namur, see how this could be automated. That's a second run that was launched. It is now used in a number of biotech companies and in a number of pharmaceutical companies. That's how the pharmaceutical companies got on board. They were willing to free up labs at their expense, provide staff and bring machines together and try to roll out 20,000 to 30,000 tests a day in a very short time - two to three weeks' time. We are working on this. In addition, one supplier said that if that kind of private public initiative was taken, he was willing to support that and could provide a capacity of reagents and kits for that central lab. That consortium of universities, biotech companies and pharmaceutical companies was put together in this way. That is why we have chosen this path. After all, it made more sense to do it in this way, and so we also had greater certainty about a large scale roll-out than if we were working with 50 or 60 smaller clinical labs that all use different types and reagents. Secondly, immediately came the question of the refund, with the RIZIV and with all kinds of things. We have concluded a general contract with that consortium, whereby the federal government buys the reagents from the supplier in order to continue to guarantee that central power. We therefore have a purchase contract. The rest of the costs are borne by the pharmaceutical industry, the biotech companies and the universities. So they're working at cost. That is an important aspect. There will be no refund, because we have concluded another type of contract to get the PCR testing capacity over the next few weeks and months. I'll be very clear. The goal is not that these labs continue to operate for years to perform PCR tests. I hope to return as soon as possible to normality but I think that for a few more months, we will use this type of PCR test to detect patients in our population. So these labs will stay in place for a few months. I think it is also important to note that the clinical labs will be able to make full use of their value and knowledge in the next stage, in the serological tests. In the variability of that testing, including ELISA testing, clinical labs can perform perfect tests today, if validated. In addition, we have committed ourselves to help secure those tests and send them to the clinical labs in our country through the classic suppliers. What I have outlined to you is the history of the story. It is also important to mention that all labs have clinical experience. They conduct clinical studies certified by AFMPS or have obtained a complementary certification that works within INAMI. INAMI knows what is happening there, what doctor has access to a certain type of data, etc. This consortium is therefore built in collaboration with different partners, who know what they can and cannot do, how, etc. They are not accredited in the specific sense as a clinical lab but have obtained the same certificates, have undergone the same quality control and apply the same procedures. It's important because we're not going to squeak about the quality of the tests. The central laboratories operate, the three major pharmaceutical companies, the biotechnology companies are added: Biogazelle and the GIGA of Liège, as well as six or seven university labs in Liège, Charleroi and Ghent. All the labs are involved. I think we have made a remarkable effort. In two or three weeks, we'll have reached the required capacity. We have already discussed the reasons why screening is not yet operational, but we are working on it. This is how this consortium was formed and will function during this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u82	I think that your answer can remove some of the unrest in the sector if you can make it hard. That subtlety isn't unimportant. It is important that you say that there is a quality check similar to the accreditation of accredited clinical labs. It is also important that you say it is temporary. Hence my condition to make this happen. After all, about the time needed to create capacity there is still discussion and unrest in the current clinical labs, both private clinical labs and those in a hospital environment. They fear that a playing field will be created on which they will no longer be able to play. That would be a distortion of our medical landscape and would also place too much concentration on a number of pharmaceutical companies. That is why I think it is right to create total openness with regard to the temporaryity and conditions for those additional clinical laboratories of the pharmaceutical industry, under the supervision of the consortium you outlined. Also with regard to the payment terms. I have heard you say that it is only about payment in relation to the purchase of materials. There is also a great deal of fog in the sector. It would therefore be a good idea to create total openness and clarity on this issue as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u83	I think the answer you gave, Mr. De Backer, was not really strong about not having increased capacity, nor did it advise the pharmaceutical industry to help the labs that are used to working with doctors in the field to increase their capacity, and to have chosen a second separate path. I may not have been fully attentive. There was still a lack of figures on the maximum capacity of peripheral laboratories that have actually committed themselves to increasing their production and their ability to do the tests. In addition, you have still not met the criteria for reimbursement in the field. We, doctors in the field, work with peripheral laboratories and today we cannot do the tests as we want to do as general practitioners, when we consider it necessary to perform them on a patient. It's really a very big problem on the ground. It must be resolved today and not in fifteen days or three weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u84	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that your concern is in fact also our concern, that is to say, to ensure the reliability of the tests carried out. On the other hand, I remain dubious with regard to the dialogue that would have taken place upstream with the approved laboratories. What is our responsibility is that they do not have these reagents today. I therefore do not understand why they were approved to carry out the tests when these decisions were taken on the basis that they had the capacity to carry out these tests in a correct way. I hear that the track was preferred in the sense that we could automate the tests thanks to the pharmaceutical companies. However, this implies today a quasi-monopoly position of these industrial laboratories, whereas these laboratories are not subject to the same control and reimbursement requirements. This has just been mentioned by my colleague. I am quite disappointed, especially since, as I said, many tests are still waiting for results, including serology tests. This poses a problem on the ground in the sense that many doctors still do not know whether they are immune or not. As a result, they still do not know whether they are immune and therefore can offer their plasma to the sick, continue to give a hand in hospitals or help members of their families. Much clarification is still needed in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u85	Mr President, thank you for your answers. First of all, I would like to address a question of method. It seems surprising to me that representatives of clinical biology laboratories were put on the sidelines without even having been consulted, despite their investment, commitment and work over the past several weeks. Then I would have liked to hear from you about your choice in favour of a consortium to have an additional capacity, not by evicting certain actors, but rather by adding together the energies and bringing together all the laboratories around the same project. This would have allowed you to increase that capacity even further. This is the key issue you need to commit to as a member of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u86	Minister, I have a better understanding of your logic and that of the government. That said, let me not share it. Moreover, you did not respond to the specific case of the President of CPAS whom I contacted this morning and who told me that it took more than five days to get the results. I understand you wanted to work with a centralized unit. Nevertheless, this choice is a real slap for all approved laboratories that have not had the opportunity to discuss with you and that have been excluded after having made very high investments. Even if your first choice was to work with this centralized unit, it was important that accredited laboratories also have reagents to enable them to perform these tests, which are primordial but lacking in our country. Your initial idea and the contribution of accredited laboratories should, however, allow us to test a lot more and provide a path to consider.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u87	Minister, thank you for that clarification. From the beginning, clinical labs have truly demonstrated their ability to produce reliable tests. But your strategy is not to include them in your approach, not to contact them to develop your plan. This is really not respectful of their dedication. You are thus depriving yourself of some 40 laboratories that will be necessary in a medium- and long-term strategy. We do not know how long this crisis will last and so brutally deprive ourselves of their collaboration at this stage does not seem to me at all wise. Another point that asks me is that there is no reimbursement system for these tests carried out by the laboratories. You're talking about another convention. I would like to see full transparency on the content of this Convention and what it covers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u88	We discussed with different clinical laboratories and contacted the suppliers of these laboratories. None of these suppliers said they were able to provide enough PCR testing to these laboratories. Laboratories claim to be able to act, which is true. But they don't have the necessary reagents. We never stopped clinical laboratories from having these reagents. I would like to stress this very clearly. We never removed reactives from labs. So we never prevented labs from ordering from their own suppliers. That never happened. We only made sure that one type of machine or one type of test was available on our central line. After all, it is done exactly as if all the reactants and reagents are the same. That's not right. There are different machines, different protocols and different rolling outs. That's the same as the difference between an iphone and an android smartphone. That's exactly the same thing. One must have the right type of machine to use certain test kits. We chose that central line because it was clear that one of the suppliers could. That is what we have based ourselves on. That is one of the reasons why we have made that choice. I just wanted to make that very clear. The last question concerns the five days. That's quite correct. Too long is the time between the delivery of the tests to the nursing homes and the results. Why? Sometimes it takes several days for the medical staff to take the test. Therefore, they are inserted into the system sometimes one or two days later by the doctor. We have discussed this with the Regions to improve the procedure. Between the time the test arrives and the result, we want to have a maximum of three days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u89	Does a Member wish to speak again? No. We are therefore moving on to tracing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u90	Mr Minister, so far there is hardly any contact tracing in Belgium. There is only one prevention doctor per province with the task of following up persons who test positive for COVID-19. The test capacity has so far been too limited, as we have already discussed, but it is now being expanded. The test capacity can therefore be used for contact tracing, a crucial step in containment and control of the epidemic. Infected persons are, after all, proactively detected and quarantined. Persons with whom the infected persons have been in contact shall also be detected and tested preventively. Mr Minister, since you are still pushing up the test capacity, does that make it possible to make effective contact tracing on a large scale in the future? This strategy is very labour-intensive, but it is feasible on the ground. People who test positive should be contacted and questioned about their contacts, after which the contacts should be tracked down to advise them to be tested as well. Will the government bet on that? The exit strategy means that we allow more people to circulate, except those who test positive, and those who test positive themselves after their contact with positively tested persons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u91	Minister, we were talking about this last week. You said it was too early for tracing and that people were thinking about it. It is better to do so early, so that we can think along and support such an approach, an approach that does not cause problems. The European Commission has finally made its voice heard in the last week. That is a good thing, because there are already four Member States that have made their own legislation. However, I think it would be better for us to work together on this, as you have said in the past. Europe, of course, refers to the existing GDPR legislation. There is. Why shouldn't we use it? You have also said in the past that it seems to be a good thing to work with this. Firstly, do the tracking apps offered today or the proposals that are already there today comply with GDPR legislation or not at all? Secondly, is the system you have set up with the mobile data that is already working today, GDPR proof? Thirdly, I referred last week to the European project Privacy-Preservation Proxinity Tracing. The group that developed it did an update on that work last week. They have described a way to work perfectly with a tracking app in a privacy sensitive way. Is that the path you want to follow? The KU Leuven is also represented in this group. It certainly seems to me an interesting project to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u92	Minister, if testing is less important in relation to patient management, it is good for tracing and tracking. Do we have the human and technological resources to be able to implement it as soon as possible? We know it's the second arm armed next to containment, hand hygiene and physical distancing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u93	Minister, the question I have passed on should be moved, but I do not know to what extent that has already happened. It is indeed about tracing and isolating contacts. There isn't much going on there for the time being. No restrictions are imposed on individuals who have come into contact with or even live with COOVID positive patients. Caregivers who live with a positive patient may also simply go to work, provided they wear a surgical mask. They should not be tested either. I have a few questions on this, Minister. Will this principle be maintained or will it be adapted at a further stage? If it will be modified, what is the timeline of that plan? It has been known for a long time, since the outbreak in Germany, that symptomless carriers of the virus can be contagious. Doesn't it make sense, in an attempt to contain the epidemic, to isolate roommates as well, or to advise those people to always wear a mouth mask when they leave the house?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u94	Mr President, I will do my best to outline where we are going. This will, of course, also be part of the discussion on the exit strategy. This will involve extensive testing capacity and the detection of people with symptoms and their contacts. This requires a concerted exercise of the federal level and regional levels. At the start of the crisis, the lack of people on the ground made it impossible to put this contact tracing, a regional competence, into practice. I'm not hiding behind that jurisdiction, I'm just giving this to you. We are now in consultation to see how we can deal with this well with all governments so that people with symptoms and, preferably, asymptomatic infected people can be picked up quickly. Then, for example, measures can be taken around isolation. Of course technology can play a role in this but it will mainly be an approach in which contact tracing has to be done manually. The various governments are now working on this. We'll see how we roll this out. There are several apps for this, including the app you mentioned. We are studying them in full and we are using one clear red line, in particular that one should remain within the framework of the GDPR. I have had contact at European level with Didier Reynders and Commissioner Breton to see how best we can do that. There is now communication from Europe about this and we will remain strictly within these recommendations. It would be good if there were a European solution, but I do not think this will be possible because the Member States are at different stages of the crisis. So we will have to make our own choices. In doing so, we will have to remain effectively within the framework of the GDPR and the European recommendations. If we use that technology, we must also do everything we can to minimize data use. We need to make sure that those data are deleted and cannot be used for other purposes. This is all part of our data protection impact assessment today. I believe that we are more than complying with the European Commission's recommendations in this area. The Data Against Corona Task Force monitors all digital developments in the detection and mapping of virus control. This is about different things: supporting open data, modelling, but also about the mobility data and how people adapt their behaviour to the measures. Are they following it or not? This is done at an aggregated and anonymised level. Data is therefore used on many different fronts, but always within the framework of the GDPR.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u95	As you said, one of the weaknesses in our country is the lack of investment in preventive medicine. The fact is there today. At the level of AViQ, for example, and the structures that must follow this phenomenon of infectious diseases, there has been a great shortage of staff. However, in an exit strategy, it is important to make this contact tracing. Please, don't make the same mistake as with the tests! Think of the first line from the start! I am thinking not only of general practitioners but also of medical homes, particularly ours, those of Medicine for the People or at the level of the Federation of Medical Houses, etc. We have staff. We know the patients. We have their phone numbers. We know the cases and their contacts. We can therefore be very interesting partners in this work. Don't leave the first line aside! She can really help. To do this, put at our disposal the necessary equipment and, among other things, the ability to do the tests!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u96	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is an answer that I naturally welcome because Europe is a continent that is very strict in terms of privacy. I believe that Europe is best placed to ensure that privacy is guaranteed. GDPR's here. It is a good thing that you say clearly that you will focus on this. Not only for reasons of principle, but also for practical reasons. For imagine that there will indeed be a tracking pact. One will only be a frontier worker moving between two countries, who would have to work with two or three apps. That would be awesome to run loose. It is good that we are opting for a European solution. We continue to follow this with great interest for the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u97	Minister, thank you for your answer. Data protection guarantees will obviously have to be ensured, and the GDPR will have to be respected. Depriving of the tracing and tracking component would obviously be detrimental to the breakdown of the transmission chain of the virus. Since several European countries are already well advanced in terms of technological development, it could be particularly interesting, logical and health-efficient to have a joint project with different Member States of the European Union, or in any case with all the States that want to move forward in this direction. I mean, just a little attention. If we want human resources in capacity and in sufficient numbers for the entire component of contact tracing, we need to get to it quickly. I hope that you will find a quick and effective agreement with the Regions, which can be deployed quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u98	Mr President, my question was really about the isolation of those who live with or have had contact with infected persons. I'll put my question to Minister De Block again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u99	So we must remember that your question was not asked in principle. We now come to the theme Material. First there is a question from Mrs Depoorter about the ventilation equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u100	Mr President, I had tabled a question on ventilation equipment. Things have changed since the question was submitted. To what extent can you guarantee at this time that people who are in a residential care centre can receive sufficient oxygen? I asked you about this last week or two weeks ago in plenary. Then you confirmed that there was sufficient capacity. Nevertheless, it appears that the residential care centres are not reassured and fear that people will not have a comfortable opportunity to get oxygen. To what extent can you ensure or guarantee that those involved will receive effective oxygen, which is very important in the context of COVID-19, not only for healing but also for comfort? It's very serious when someone doesn't get oxygen. Secondly, I had also asked another question, namely whether experiments are being carried out here in Belgium, where several patients are being placed on one device and also whether the spare parts are available for that purpose. I also asked to what extent the follow-up masks are used, to provide people with oxygen when they are hospitalized.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u101	Mr. President, Minister, the VUB recently developed a prototype respirator and partnered with Audi Forest to produce it in series. The same applies to UCLouvain, where a project to manufacture emergency breathers, born around the OpenHub innovation laboratory, federates more than 300 people. A third similar project also exists around the University of Ghent. In order to be able to market medical equipment, however, it must have been previously certified by a body designated by the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS). However, the Commission considers that, as far as these respirators are concerned, the need is not there and that it is not possible to put in place such a procedure "in such a short period of time while preserving public health". Mr Minister, the unprecedented crisis we are facing should, in my view, encourage us to take every initiative into account. In this specific case, even if these respirators were not to be useful for Belgium, we could send them to areas where they could save lives. Mr Minister, would you then be able to take a full look at this dossier and the follow-up that should be given to it? I have been told that an emergency derogation has been used to validate what hospitals are doing, under their responsibility. If so, do you have an estimate of the number of respirators involved? To which hospitals are they referred? Do you now have a complete view of the number of respirators available throughout the Belgian hospital network?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u102	We are too dependent on China and other countries, which presents problems in the event of a real crisis. A number of Flemish companies are waiting for the government's approval to produce mouth masks and other protective material. They shall not be given the necessary certificates which prevent them from doing so. Is it true that a number of Flemish companies have applied to produce mouth masks? When will you respond to these proposals? Do you already have a plan to determine what they can and can produce, what the masks should look like and what they may cost? I have the same questions about the production of viral agents. We are increasingly hearing from certain sources that chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine do help. It is an old drug that does not cost much and is apparently available here. To previous questions, you replied that chloroquine is not used because the clinical tests have not yet been completed. To another question, about availability, you replied that chloroquine is available. I quote: 'At the end of March, 64 kilograms of hydroxychloroquine were distributed among hospitals, providing treatment for 22,000 hospitalised COVID-19 patients'. Minister, do we have hydroxychloroquine or not? Is it used in hospitals? Are there any companies I am thinking of, for example, Bayer...... who produce chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine from us? Can you allow or even possibly impose such production in order to make us less dependent on China or other Asian distant countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u103	Mr President, Minister, I have a number of questions about recycling and reuse, first of all with regard to the masks. A few weeks ago, the FPS Public Health Department explained through the website makjemondmask.be to everyone who wanted to get started, how it was necessary to make surgical mouth masks in a safe way. Now everyone who has worked hard on this is asking for a protocol to be able to safely reuse it. Many home nurses working with masks like this would like to know how that happens safely. When one sees how many mouth masks are being thrown away at the moment, we wonder whether a circular story can be linked to that. Can we re-use some of these raw materials? Could this be an answer to the production here and a possible shortage of raw materials to start production at home? On this production in my own country, I read in the newspaper today that two Flemish firms could start work in the very short term. Are they financially supported by the federal government? Are there any other collaborations going on? We know about a number of Walloon companies that could also produce. Will this production continue to be effective in Belgium or can they also move that production abroad? Then I get the aprons and shields. A lot of residential care centers sit through their stash aprons and ask anyone who is handy with a sewing machine to sew aprons, from a fabric that can be washed at a very high temperature. Is a protocol possible for this purpose, to make them and to be able to reuse them safely? We also notice that there is a shortage of good sturdy cotton from wholesalers. Are you aware of that? Can you do something about that? Shields glasses are made by handy 3D printers. Is a protocol possible to make it safe so that all the handy harries in our country can get to work effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to oxygen, a distinction must be made between invasive and non-invasive ventilators, because that is a big difference. Invasive ventilators can be found in hospitals. Clear agreements have been made between the residential care centres and the hospitals to provide the necessary support. For non-invasive ventilation equipment there is also cooperation between certain hospitals and residential care centres. There are also two different types of devices. A first type of device is connected to central lines. Another type of apparatus removes the oxygen from the air, which is then brought to the patient. Last week I was asked about a state of affairs in plenary. As a plateau is gradually being reached in hospitals, we are not in trouble there, but in the residential care centres it is not clear so far. We discussed this at the Inter-Ministerial Conference this morning. The regions have promised to list the needs so that we know what is needed and where there may be a shortage. On the weekend after last week's question, of course, we did not sit still. We have picked that up, and we have looked at how we could cope with a form of hamster behaviour that we have been able to identify in some institutions. We have asked for the material to circulate properly and to ensure that everything comes in on time, can be sterilized and comes back on the market in the shortest possible time. The FAGG has granted a derogation for a part so that efficiency can be increased. We have also issued an additional communication with guidelines for the use of the devices in an efficient manner. All healthcare institutions should exchange transparent information in order to avoid possible shortages. We are very concerned about that. We are discussing with the Regions how to really avoid this. At the moment, we still have enough, but we are following the situation very closely. For the certification of new artificial respirators, there are two points. First, a circular was issued seven or ten days ago. This circular expands in-house manufacturing, which allows hospitals to outsource part of their manufacturing and medical devices manufactured as a result of certain initiatives taken. I think that the possibility has been created for the application and use of certain very innovative things in the context of a hospital. Second, the AFMPS may propose exemptions to the Minister for certification, but the AFMPS itself is not an accredited body and therefore does not issue certificates of compliance. We therefore need to test in our certified laboratories, which can take a few weeks or even months. However, there is a possibility of derogation, but no dossier has yet been put forward. I want to be very clear about the medicines. Of hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine, which is now used for the treatment of some COVID patients, a sufficient stock is distributed across all hospitals for the treatment of more than 30,000 patients. A strategic stock is also available. From the curares, all hospitals received extra packaging from the strategic stock last week. This week, more than 50,000 packages will be distributed again. For the morphines, a Belgian company doubled production. Of these, 400,000 ampoules are purchased for a strategic stock, which can of course be supplemented by other sources and made available to the hospitals they need. This week, we also delivered drugs that are crucial to the treatment of VOCID patients in intensive care: fentanyl, dexmetametin (?), rocuronium (?), atracurium, etc. We follow some medicines, but for the moment we are able, in consultation with the hospitals that carry out day-to-day monitoring – so we are in very close contact with the hospitals – to provide the necessary medicines. There is also a link to the residential care centers, where we are now trying to start a similar report, because medications for palliative care are of course linked to some of the products I have just mentioned. There was also a question about re-use. The FAGG published last week in a circular that is possible re-use, so we have now made that possible. There are clear protocols on how masks can be used again. There's been tests in labs on how to do that and what the consequences of that are. There are now clear instructions given which protocols are valid to do so. As you have read, your own production has also received a boost. In addition to a Walloon company, which was already active, two additional companies are now looking at how they can effectively make surgical and FFP2 masks in their own country. This is in addition to the initiative where a number of companies consider whether they can produce textile masks for a larger audience. There are absolutely no blockages there: if there are good proposals, we like to hear them and then we pick them up. The same goes for the aprons and the face shields. When it comes to production in small quantities, we usually refer them directly to the nearest hospital or residential care centre; there is no need for a central hub to provide additional logistical support; this can happen directly. We are also looking, especially with the large producers who want to start their own production, for ways in which they can assure themselves of the raw material needed to start that production in Belgium. This also applies to a piece for 3D printers: they must also pass a certain certification before 3D printed items can come onto the market. In this respect, we support companies to see how they can do it quickly. If they pass the tests, they can distribute their products on the Belgian market. When it comes to good quality, we also help them to distribute these products to healthcare professionals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u105	I would like to come back to the circular on the reuse of mouth masks. There are also companies that could do about decontamination. There is absolutely no mention in your circular of the criteria to be followed. It might be a good tip to record that, too. I think we can make a big profit with this. As regards the production of mouth masks here in Flanders, you say that you welcome new initiatives. Recently we had a conference call with a number of entrepreneurs and engineers from Flanders, along with your services, and they have not heard from you anymore. If we really want to bet on the production of FFP2 masks, it might be a good idea to contact them again. As far as oxygen for residential care centres is concerned, we can indeed opt for a concentratestor or gas bottles. I think it's very important to bet on that. Very often the patients are very sick. Not having oxygen is inhuman in such cases. We must make sure that the staff can connect that oxygen and that COVID patients enjoy some comfort at this difficult time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u106	Minister, I understand that a circular allows hospitals to outsource the manufacture of certain respirators. I would like to know how many such respirators are currently produced and available. To which hospitals are they referred? The Federal Medicines Agency may propose exemptions, but no certification. You say that these certifications take weeks or even months. In Spain, for example, the authorities have allowed for accelerated certification of these respirators. It seems to me that, in times of crisis, more means are better than not enough. We obviously have scientific and academic resources, very important industrial resources in our country. It's a shame to do without it. The intensive care of our hospitals is often saturation and a rebound in the epidemic is unfortunately not to be excluded. It will therefore be necessary to anticipate what has not been so far. Could you give me an overview of the number of respirators – classic and created through derogations – currently in use in the country? Would it be possible to receive this information by written reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u107	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. As Mr Depooster also said, I hope you will contact the companies that are able to use their machines for the production of protective equipment. That would also be very good for later, because if we are in charge of our own protective equipment and can produce it all ourselves, we are no longer dependent on foreign companies that sometimes do not take it very closely with the rules that apply here. As for the viral medications, I didn't really get an answer to that. You say that there is enough chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine, but I am thinking, for example, of other medicines, such as those used for tuberculosis and ebola. After all, they are also very promising. What exactly does that do? What's your point of view? Thank you, however, for this incomplete answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u108	Mr President, Minister, I think it is a very good idea to bring production directly into contact with the people who need it on a small scale. It is also good to know that companies that can produce on a larger scale can contact you directly. We will certainly pass that on. What I'm still hungry for is circular production. We can produce masks on a very large scale in Belgium, but if we are still dependent on imports from abroad for raw materials, then we will still be in a future crisis. If we're good at something, it's in innovation. I would therefore recommend that in that circular story of the masks that are now being used on a large scale, you examine what materials we can reuse for the production of new masks. This is the future and we certainly need to look at it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u109	We're running out of time. We come to the last subject, the masks, with three questions from Mrs Farih. I'll give you three minutes to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u110	Mr President, we have just mentioned the subject of medicines when there were a series of questions on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u111	We'll see if you have any questions about the drugs afterwards. We are now addressing the theme of masks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u112	Minister, you mentioned earlier that we have enough mouth masks for the month of April. It is true that we heard last week that 5 million masks do not meet the required quality. Minister, do we have enough mouth masks to make it to April? We have seen the initiatives of the last week. I am very pleased with that. The Belgian market is committed to producing mouth masks. That is a very good initiative. Of course, those masks won't be ready for distribution for four weeks. Why were the mouth masks rejected last week? Is it administrative certificates or is it effective about the quality of all five million mouth masks? Will we have enough mouth masks for the month of April? I have also read that you have appointed a Belgian doctor in China to carry out the monitoring of medical supplies flown over to our country. Was the Belgian doctor already appointed before those five million mouth masks were shipped to Belgium? If so, how come that control didn't happen properly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u113	Minister, no country can handle the battle alone. A good student worldwide is Taiwan, where only six have died and 400 infections have been diagnosed. Taiwan is also committed to solidarity. Last week it announced that it would donate ten million mouth masks to nine EU Member States, including Belgium. The country is able to produce 3.2 million to 13 million mouth masks daily. So the country is a really good student worldwide. I would like to ask the following questions because Taiwan is the only country that is actually donating. The masks were to arrive in Luxembourg last week on 9 April 2020. In the meantime, have they been delivered to Belgium? How many mouth masks have been made available to our country exactly? Are the mouth masks of good quality? How will the mouth masks be distributed in our country? Are there any further contacts with Taiwan ongoing for additional orders or donations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u114	Mr Minister, my colleague just mentioned the decontamination of the FFP2 masks. These are the most scarce. On the one hand we want to start our own production, but that won't be right before tomorrow. In this respect, there are initiatives to decontaminate the FFP2 masks. Not only the coronavirus should be removed or greatly reduced, but also other potential pathologies. Of course, it is also important after decontamination that the fit and filtration are maintained. Ideally, a method should be developed to decontaminate large volumes of mouth masks. In that sense, I have received signals from people working on it. They are waiting for guidelines to determine the degree of decontamination, as well as the filter capacity and the fit. They want guidelines on which they can graft to deliver quality materials. On the other hand, I wonder whether the government itself has given a mandate here to investigate the possibilities of decontamination of masks. Have you contacted the industry, which quickly indicated itself to want to think and cooperate in this? Do you think that in the foreseeable future we will be able to decontaminate and reuse highly protective FFP2 masks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u115	Question No 55004874C by Mr Kir, absent, is deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u116	Minister, Mrs De Block continues to say that the wearing of the mask does not make any scientific sense. At the same time, however, the government sought a new opinion from experts and the scientific world such as the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium which expressed itself by inviting to the general wear of the mask. The press this morning pointed out that the recommendations of the expert group were in this direction and that the Risk Management Group would do the same. I can't see clearly. Why re-evaluate a situation today? Do you confirm the recommendations for wearing the mask? If so, at what point – debunking, right now, for everyone? Should each of us wear a mask on authorized exits? If the recommendations go in the direction of generalisation, in particular for exits but also for deconfining, is Belgium able to provide these masks to the whole population in terms of volume of production? For my group, masks but also all the necessary products such as hydro-alcoholic gel must now be regarded as essential goods. This is even a matter of public health. In this case, we are eager to see VAT reduced from 21 % to 6 %. What do you think? What attitude do you intend to adopt? You also know that the municipalities are taking a series of measures to remedy the current situation. Some impose the mask. Others buy them without imposing them, but by advising them. What do you think of these attitudes?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u117	Mr Minister, I have a question about the key to the mouth masks. In the last few weeks we have been given an update on how many masks went to the Länder, but I wonder what the logic is to divide them between the Länder. I wonder if you have an overview of the needs by profession? It seems to me more logical to divide them by profession than by state where these professions live. Is there an overview of the needs by profession? Is a distribution key possible for each profession? Or are the mouth masks already distributed according to the target groups or professional groups? On March 24th there was a big delivery. Of these, it seems that good masks have also been delivered to private companies. Is that right? Is it still the way things are going today, that people in the front line have to re-use their mouth masks against the virus because they have too few of them while there are still masks going to private companies? Wouldn't the distribution of mouth masks be better based on target groups or professional groups rather than by state?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u118	Minister, we have heard this week that the production of mouth masks in Belgium is about to start. If I'm right, 190 million surgical masks and 10 million FFP2 masks are being made. We could read that in all newspapers but according to some people a production line is already starting next week, while according to others it will take weeks before the first mouth mask of the band rolls. Can you give an exact timeline for the production of mouth masks in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u119	Mr President, Minister, I would like to return for a moment to the order for three million masks, which had arrived in Liège and which was considered unusable for front-line healthcare staff. Could these masks not be used by other people, especially those who still have to work in food or other stores? Where are those masks today? What are you going to do with it? Can you also take stock of all orders already placed, distinguishing between federal and regional orders? Can you give us a distribution key? How many surgical masks and FFP2 are currently in order? What about next deliveries? How will these masks be distributed among Regions and health care providers? Several contacts announce abnormally long delays in the path of masks between the airport and the care units. After the masks have been tested and validated, it appears that there are abnormally long delivery times. Can you confirm that? Do you have any contact with your Defence counterpart to shorten these delays and deliver these masks to the care units as quickly as possible? You have announced support for two Flemish companies to produce masks. You say it's a production that could provide surgical masks to the entire population. How many companies did you contact? How much did they respond to the call for tenders? Why this final choice? Will these masks be well produced in our country? When will production be operational? The director of one of the companies that you chose did not seem very optimistic, since in the press he felt that it would not be for tomorrow, that no machine had yet arrived, and that the most complicated would be to find enough raw materials. Minister, have you also made contact with Fleurus's company, Deltrian, with whom the Walloon government has made commitments for more than two weeks to make millions of masks, or with Waremme's company, Mölnlycke, which has also offered service? I believe that we need to be able to look at what can be done throughout the country and to help companies that have the means to quickly produce these masks and protective equipment in our country, but also innovative companies that develop specific technologies, in particular to enable the decontamination of masks and their reuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u120	Mr President, Minister, I would like to take advantage of this topical debate to address this crucial issue of masks. Minister, because of the shortage of equipment and, in this case, masks, it would have been proposed to home nurses to streamline the use of medical equipment and to wear the mask only if the patient is suspected of having contracted the coronavirus or if he is contaminated. Minister De Block explained that this recommendation is justified by the fact that, as long as the virus is not aired, it does not pose a risk to health care personnel. However, this justification is not on the road to the extent that the patient never warns before sneezing or coughing. Furthermore, it has not yet been proven that the asymptomatic patient is not contaminant. In fact, as you explained earlier, 10 to 15% of the asymptomatic patients tested were positive for VOCID-19. Minister, do you validate the recommendation that has been made to nurses? Let me now turn to the issue of making masks. As my colleague said, the government has appointed two companies based in Flanders to produce one million surgical masks per week, which will be produced in Tunisia while a Walloon firm based in Fleurus is able to produce a large quantity of masks in Belgium. What are the reasons for choosing these two firms? On the basis of which public procurement procedure was this decision taken? Can you provide us with the administrative documents and, in particular, the special specifications? This brings me to the artisanal masks that can be worn by the population about which I would like to hear you. Indeed, the Risk Management Group has just presented its decision on wearing the mask according to which, when the social distancing measures are lifted, the fabric masks will be advised. This is a position that I defended with the Prime Minister last Thursday. Mr Minister, could you please let me know if there is a strategy at government level to ensure, as many European countries have committed themselves to doing, that our citizens have these masks in time, but also that clear instructions for use and maintenance are given. I understand that you do not intend to block the initiatives developed by certain firms or by certain citizens, but you have not given any further details. However, in my view, we must not wait until the report of the GEES, which is due to be delivered next Wednesday, to look at a real strategy to supply masks for the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will go through the questions and hope that I will be able to answer all your very different questions. We ordered a lot more masks last week than before. There are 113 million surgical masks and 50 million FFP2 masks, 12 million blouses and 53 million gloves. I also have another list that I can provide to members, if they are interested. Deliveries have already taken place, for example, for nearly 20 million surgical masks, much of which have already been distributed this weekend. Also distributed last week and this weekend were 200 blouses, 1.5 million gloves, 5,000 faces shields and nearly 2 million surgical masks. And today, the distribution of 500,000 surgical masks for pretriage stations, 500,000 for paramedics, 500,000 for psychiatric hospitals and 1.5 million for general practitioners begins. So we made a lot of distributions last week and we continue to order. An approximate calculation was made with a margin of 50% to estimate the number of masks still to be ordered for Belgium. We're not there yet. I will only be satisfied when the deliveries arrive in Belgium and they pass the quality test. There is no delay between the delivery to the airport and the taking over of these masks and equipment by the army. They are taken over by Puisie and monitored there. As soon as they pass the quality test, they are distributed. There is a need for a decision from the Risk Management Group where the federal and federal entities are represented on the distribution keys. It sometimes takes a little time to understand the needs of the field. So very often today we are stuck in a push model whereby, on the basis of certain criteria and on the basis of the priorities set out by the RMG, we place certain materials on the ground, but more and more that model is refined and where we can try to install a pull model that responds to the questions and needs of the field. As far as production in Belgium is concerned, we have been in contact with several companies. We are well aware of the initiatives taken in Wallonia and Flanders. Based on a number of quality requirements and assessments, we have looked at which companies could produce. We did not grant subsidies to these companies. We just let you know that we need the masks as soon as possible and that we would take the first two or three million anyway, if the masks were to pass quality control. That is all we have done because we want to have these masks as soon as possible in this time of crisis. There's a lot to look at when you produce your own. I have heard many times this week the question of why this could not be done faster. Many entrepreneurs simply do not want to venture into this because the conversion of production lines requires a lot of work and the purchase of the machines and the material is not always obvious. We now have a case in which we have been able to buy the machines and the material. The machines are currently on their way to Belgium and will be installed as soon as possible. According to the planned timeline, production in Belgium can then start in mid-May with these machines. That is a good thing, because this will reduce our dependence on abroad and boost the exit strategy, should it ever be decided whether or not to let the broad population wear mouth masks voluntarily. I have always been in favour of following the recommendations of the WTO in this area, and Belgium is doing so now. It will then be up to the experts of the exit group to take that into account in their reflections, to see how this can fit in with the phasing-out of measures. I will go into the quality control procedure. When we get an offer or search for suppliers ourselves, we first look at the reliability of the supplier, the prices and the delivery times. Then it will be checked whether the medical devices documents are in conformity so that the FAGG or the FPS Economy can verify those documents. Only then will an order be placed. Very often there is also an extra control by people from FIT or AWEX who help us or by other contacts we have in China. The deliveries arrive at the airport and are checked in Peutie. If the inspection isn't satisfactory, we'll have another lab check. Only then will the masks be placed on the market. After a relatively short period of time, we can put those masks on the market with quality control. Mr President, I believe that I have answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u122	Minister, it was certainly clear to me how the control is currently being carried out, but I wonder whether the procedure has been changed since last week's incorrect delivery. Did the control go the same way? I believe that we urgently need more certainty in this area, especially for the people in the workplace. I have already put a lot of questions on this, both in writing and orally, both in plenary and in committee, but the situation in the workplace is poignant. People really need a grip. I hope that we will be able to offer it to them. I hear that we will only be able to start production in Belgium in the middle of May. It is important that the press be made aware of this, because now we are dealing with announcement policy. People are hopeful, but hope can also be devastating if the effects on the workplace are not noticeable. Please take this into account, given the distressing situation of many aid workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u123	I would like to say a few words about that. Of course, I still don't write the headlines. If you read our press release, you will see that the dates are clearly stated in it. As far as the procedure is concerned, some of the deliveries we have received in recent weeks have not yet been completed. Therefore, there was no prior on-the-spot verification and no additional check by the suppliers. That happened purely on the basis of the documentation. That also made sense at the time, because there was another market at the time. As soon as we found that there were a lot of problems with the deliveries, when I started to lead the task force, I immediately made the decision to adjust the procedure. A few days after I took office, this new procedure was introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u124	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u125	Minister, I did not receive an answer to my question on Taiwan. Is that because you still owe the answer or because you forgot? Perhaps you can answer it later, because it is important. Questioning the Foreign Office teaches me that Taiwan is the only country that has offered 10 million masks for free. They did indeed arrive in Luxembourg last week. So my question remains whether we have called on those masks that were offered to us for free. Taiwan is a fairly reliable partner. The Chamber also goes to Taiwan twice a year: we have established good ties with it from Parliament. It therefore seems useful and advisable to deepen these links at ministerial level and to see if they can provide more reliable material than the Chinese. You are referring only to China in that respect, but Taiwan turns out to be a good student worldwide, with few infections and few deaths. So my question remains whether we will continue to call on Taiwan to deliver and possibly donate those masks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u126	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, I have overlooked your question. At European level, a donation was received from Taiwan and was distributed among different countries. Our country has also received part of that delivery. We order in many different countries and certainly not only in China.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u127	Mr President, Minister, I think you have also missed the question of decontamination. I would like an answer to that, if necessary in writing, because the sector is really asking for certain directives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u128	I'll look into that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u129	I happen to be in my dental practice right now. The moment we start back, we, and other sectors, are going to need a lot of protective equipment. We need new material for every patient, mouth masks and gloves. I hope that there will be a long-term strategy after the peak, to ensure that all healthcare providers can continue with the normal treatments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u130	Mrs Gijbels, I understand that the answer you asked for comes in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u131	Minister, Easter was yesterday, but I'm still waiting for a single bell sound. The feeling remains that I didn't get the answers I was hoping for. I ask the President to take note that I will ask Mrs De Block again next Friday, since I really expect clear answers, like all citizens. We need a clear framework for wearing the mask, it's essential. What type, how to wear it, for whom, why, how, when? Soldiers with white weapons are not sent to war, nor will they be treated with placebos. Today we can feel protected, and maybe we're wrong. Maybe we feel like we're protecting others, and maybe we're wrong, too. The State must take its responsibilities to guarantee these measures if they are necessary and certainly not to fall behind a recommendation left to the free appreciation of the communes, as was the case at the beginning of the crisis, let alone to the solidarity of citizens, which is formidable and which I welcome, but whose role is not to compensate for the deficits of the State. The State must ensure that masks are made available, if it deems it useful tomorrow, from masks to quality standards, on time, with useful information on their proper use, accessible in number, but also financially accessible, because we are not all financially equal and fairness is needed more than ever, especially when it comes to public health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u132	Minister, I just heard you give a breakdown based on target groups. I also heard the hopeful message that we will soon be able to go to a pull model based on the questions and needs. I hope, along with you, that there will soon be enough material so that everyone will have the material they need.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u133	Mr Rigot, you can reintroduce your questions for Mrs De Block. The questions raised here will be considered to have been dealt with. Everyone still has the opportunity to introduce questions tomorrow for Friday's meeting with Mrs De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u134	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad that we will soon be keeping part of the production of mouth masks in our own country. We hope you'll respect the timing. In any case, we shall be following closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u135	Minister, thank you for taking a snapshot of the situation of the masks and all the protective equipment. I had asked in its time that the status of the current orders be transmitted as they progressed to the care institutions, in particular so that they could plan and manage their stocks as best they could. I don't know what you're doing with this thinking. I also heard your answers to the Flemish but also Walloon companies that offered services. I hope, of course, that we will be able to concentrate our forces at any level of power in order to have a Belgian production that can relieve us. Unfortunately, I did not receive an answer to those famous three million masks that arrived in Liège and were considered unusable. I don't know what was done with those masks. Mrs De Block had also not given me an answer when I referred to the famous aborted order from Pharmasimple, the Louvieroise company. I guess we have to expect that sometimes we don't have an answer to all our questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u136	Mr. Chair, I did not get any answers to my questions from the minister, with respect to the recommendation that was addressed to home nurses. A clarification on your part is necessary. Finally, this recommendation is tantamount to considering the shortage of masks available to home-based nurses as a fatality, whereas as front-line staff, they must be properly protected when they are required to treat their patients. With regard to the manufacture of masks, on what basis were the two firms designated to manufacture these surgical masks selected? I also have the impression that the question of the wearing of the fabric mask by the population is being systematically avoided, as clear opinions are emerging more and more at the scientific level. I would like to be able to anticipate the necessary measures to be able to implement them correctly according to the opinions given to us today by the scientific world. It is very important today to anticipate things to ensure that people can continue to protect themselves. I am talking about the period of deconfinement but also about today. In fact, we sometimes find ourselves in situations where social distancing is not obvious to respect. It is important to ensure protection for the population in these situations as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u137	Mr President, can I answer technically?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u138	Yes. I was going to ask you to answer those outstanding questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u139	Recommendations are made by RMG and Sciensano. It is the same experts who made the recommendations on the topic of whether we can continue working in nursing homes if we are tested positive. The answer is yes. Here too, they made a recommendation on how people should wear masks. I think there is a clear opinion. Secondly, we have not chosen these companies. We have just reached an agreement that the first five million masks that will be produced in Belgium will be purchased by us. If it is in mid-May, we will still be in the crisis, I think, and it will make sense to make such a purchase. For wearing the mask, I'm not an expert. We are following the WHO recommendations. So I will not comment on whether it is important or not. WHO makes recommendations, experts examine the role of wearing the mask during confinement, and we will then communicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u140	We will address the issue of medicines. There was no question from Mrs Merckx about curare, but she left us. I have received messages from Mrs Fonck, Mr Bertels, Mrs Depoorter and Mrs Rohonyi, who want to talk about medicines. Minister, do you agree to extend the meeting by a quarter of an hour?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u141	I cannot refuse, I have too much respect for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u142	Mr President, Minister, I would like to touch on two points. It was mentioned earlier, and you said it again yourself, AFMPS considers that there is no shortage of medicines in Belgium. Yet the reality on the ground is quite different. I take the words of Philippe Devos, president of ABSyM, who works in intensive care units. I went to the field, to contact the intensive care units, which are all in the same reality, with regular problems of shortage. For the moment, they are essentially sedatives. We talked about curares earlier. The methodology is challenging. The AFMPS says that there is no shortage while today veterinary products sometimes have to be used. This means that we are in a situation of shortage. On the other hand, the AFMPS has a procedure whereby hospitals must only report their lack within 48 hours. This is a problem because the vision is too short. The AFMPS does not necessarily respond to e-mails within 48 hours. Finally, this is probably the worst, if hospitals report shortages, drugs are not necessarily sent within 48 hours, while AFMPS imposes this deadline. In this regard, my request is that monitoring be done in a much more direct and permanent manner between hospitals, especially intensive care units, and AFMPS, with different procedures. In particular, there are possible technological means, rather than by email. And that the delay is not 48 hours, but with a slightly longer vision, which would allow hospitals to avoid asking each morning whether they will be able to keep their patients on respirators. I have a small supplementary question that I had asked last week, but that has not been answered; it concerns the use of immunoglobulins for patients in intensive care, who have extremely severe lesions. At this stage, a Belgian clinical study VOCIPLASM provides for the possibility of using immunoglobulins. A control group has been set up. This means that one in two patients will not receive treatment, but only physiological fluid. I understand the meaning of the study, but in such a serious situation, it seems to me that access to this potentially life-saving treatment would save lives. Therefore, Minister, is it not appropriate to allow the use of these immunoglobulins without necessarily following this study, at the risk of otherwise depriving one in two patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, speaking time for a question remains two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u144	Mr Minister, my question is in line with Mrs Fonck's question. In addition to the decision-making boom on deficits of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, there is the special decision-making boom for drug shortages to combat COVID-19. The fact that hospital pharmacists are only allowed to register their deficits within 48 hours is not understood by doctors who, of course, want to be sure that a particular medicine is available for the entire duration of a patient's treatment. Mrs Fonck and you too, Minister, when you spoke about the special medicines, you mentioned Propofol. Well, today, BVAS has spread the alarming message that Propofol, an essential sedative in the use of ventilators, is not available in hospitals. That's causing a lot of unrest. Mr Minister, can you remove this concern about the availability of Propofol? As a result of the communication of BVAS, I felt it necessary to add that question. My initial question is whether you can review the 48-hour directive. For hospital pharmacists and doctors this period is really very short, especially since the FAGG cannot guarantee that a particular medicine can be delivered within that 48-hour period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u145	Mr Minister, following on from what my fellow Members have just mentioned about the publication of the Flemish Doctor's Syndicate today, I also think that 48 hours is far too short. My fellow Members have just said the same thing. I spoke to you about Propofol two weeks ago. Then you said there was absolutely no shortage, that there was order and that our hospitals would have enough. But it is still incomprehensible, if there is no shortage, that we are asking for products. It is known in advance that when patients are on a ventilator, which is for 21 to 31 days. It is therefore very easy to know how long in advance one will need that medication in the hospital. Then it is really not workable working with a margin of only 48 hours and wondering whether those drugs are still coming or not. I believe that this is really a call to which we must listen and which we must take into account. My question, which had not been answered last week, also had to do with the FAGG's export restriction. You said at the time that this export restriction came as a precaution; we have enough medication. But I have a hunch that something isn't quite right. Did we have enough, or did we not have enough? Are the ships that were ready in Zaventem shipped abroad or were they held here? That is something I would like an answer to. I also did not receive an answer to the question of how many patients are now participating in clinical studies last week. Mr Sneppe has just referred to chloroquine. Chloroquine can be used perfectly at an early stage of the disease with a much less risk of permanent lung damage. Are there studies on this, yes or no? How many patients are in the program of remdesivir? I didn't get an answer to that either. Finally, we now know that the virus works via ACE receptors. In the Netherlands, studies have been started on a medicine that already exists. That's Icatibant. Is this also being investigated in Flanders? Do your services follow this study? Finally, the study with cytokines (?) of Ghent University by the Task Force whether or not supported?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u146	Minister, I wanted to hear from you about the shortage of drugs. I ask you this crucial question because it is up to us from the ABSyM that some hospitals sometimes stay three days without medication, which forces intensive care units to prioritize patients because of their dependence, in other words, depending on whether they need help to feed themselves, dress, etc. They are therefore not a priority. This shortage would, for example, result in veterinary medicinal products being used, as my colleagues have mentioned. I am thinking in particular of Propovet, which contains the same active molecules as Propofol, which is in short supply but should only be used as a last resort and which has harmful side effects. We are also told that there is a shortage of sedatives in nursing homes so that some pharmacists must, in despair, turn to FPS Health to try to find a solution. I also wanted to hear from you on the issue of access to chloroquine for patients with chronic diseases. To prevent the risk of self-medication of chloroquine by people without being able to cure coronavirius, your government has rightly been forced to redirect stocks of chloroquine to hospitals. The result is that chronic patients who used chloroquine or its derivatives for treatment suddenly found themselves deprived of their usual treatment, a treatment that is sometimes vital especially for patients with lupus, malaria or rheumatoid arthritis. Minister, have any measures been taken to allow pharmacies to quickly dispose of a sufficient stock of chloroquine for chronic patients? Otherwise, is it envisaged that these chronic patients, with, for example, a certificate from their attending physician, will be able to go to the hospital to receive their treatment, knowing that visits to the hospital are currently restricted for the reasons that are known?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u147	Ms. Taquin also wanted to intervene on the supply of drugs, but there seems to be a slight technical problem. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u148	Mr President, there are a number of issues that fall outside my purview, and I hope you will be able to take them back with my colleague De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u149	Ah, we've re-established contact with Mrs. Taquin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u150	Mr President, I will recall the questions I asked earlier. Minister, should we not need more communication and transparency on stocks for practitioners? What emergency delivery procedure has been put in place? Who evaluates and what adaptations are envisaged to ensure information? How have AFMPS services been strengthened? Is that the case today? Considering the words of the inter-federal spokesman on the wearing of the generalized mask from the beginning of the deconfination, how is the government preparing for it? What measures are being taken to ensure access to oxygen for people with respiratory problems? Do you confirm a decrease in chronic drug use? Is an analysis carried out to define the magnitude and risks of the risk?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u151	Mr President, I have already indicated how the various medicines are distributed. AFMPS continues to provide those essential for intensive care. We also train hospitals. There is a need to deal with difficulties in supplying medicines. Permanent contact is established between AFMPS, pharmacies and hospitals with a view to finding solutions together. In short, for the time being, there is no total shortage of medicines. No patient was refused treatment for VOCID-19 for such a reason. The stocks of certain intensive care drugs are indeed under stress, as I have always indicated. Since the beginning of this crisis, AFMPS has worked to develop solutions, which are not always easy. We discussed with suppliers and found them abroad. We're supervising the drugs that come in and out of our country. Several options are also being considered by the Agency. On the ground, therefore, we constantly monitor what is available for medicines in Belgium. For example, in collaboration with hospitals, we are looking at how to optimize the delivery of medicines. It is important to consider how the available medicines can best be used and distributed. There has also been contact with a number of couriers to accelerate, for example, the delivery of certain medicines. As I have already indicated, a lot is still being purchased. At the same time, we also try to keep in constant contact via a emergency line that is manned 7 to 7. If there is a real need at some point, we can react very quickly. Within a few hours a delivery will be carried out effectively. The aim is also to create a new strategic stock in order to better cope with deficits. At the moment there is permanent consultation with the hospitals and the hospital hospitals to see how the delivery can best be done. The agency is therefore working very correctly and qualityfully today. Certain accusations that I have read in the press over the past week are therefore below all standards and out of proportion. Solutions are sought together with the hospitals and sometimes they are effective about other molecules. However, these are molecules that have also been approved or found equivalent for the use in question. I was gonna give that to you today anyway. I have already indicated the quantities purchased by the agency. In this way we try to provide hospitals with the necessary medicines as best we can. We do this not only for the treatment of COVID patients, but also for other patients who would also have certain needs, including a number of contacts with residential care centres to ensure, for example, that sufficient medicines remain in palliative care.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u152	Minister, things are not simple and everyone is doing their utmost to deal with and obtain life-saving drugs. You're talking about accusations in the press out of proportion. I guess you're targeting ICU doctors. I regret that you have this kind of comment because, in keeping with them, you do not measure well what happens every day in intensive care units and elsewhere, and how caregivers need to find plans B to keep patients in the respirator and try to save them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u153	Mr Minister, no one underestimates the efforts of the FAGG, nor the consultations with the hospital pharmacists. However, the message we want to give is that we must not underestimate the unrest that may arise on the ground. For example, we are talking about hospital pharmacists who must respect the guidelines of the FAGG and engage in discussions with treating doctors, including the use of a number of necessary medicines, the hospital pharmacists of which cannot guarantee 100% that these medicines will be available within 20 days or a month. Don't underestimate this. Take away the unrest. You have today received a press article, which you call accusing. People read that, too. Healers also read what their professional organizations say. Please take away the unrest. And look at the 48 hours directive, because it is often too sharp, especially on extended weekends.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u154	Mr Minister, you are talking about the optimisation of deliveries in 48 hours. I would like to add my voice to those of my fellow Members. Doctors and hospital pharmacists aren't just suing this. They're not gonna win anything. It's about starting a therapy that lasts 21 to 31 days. They need to be assured that their patient will be treated during that period. Without the medication, we can't get on the ventilator. This is really something we can't just put aside. I think it's an absolute must to work on those 48 hours. As far as export restrictions are concerned, I have still not received an answer to the question whether the ships ready in Zaventem have been able to leave for Africa and the United States and whether you have discussed this with pharma.be, with the pharmaceutical sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u155	The answer is yes twice. We talked to pharma.be. There is a FAGG directive. It is published on their website that ships destined for outside the European Union must first be notified. For example, the FAGG can check whether or not these medicines are needed in Belgium. That's the rule that's been set now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u156	Everything that was ready left in time, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u157	I cannot comment on specific cases. The rule is to talk to the pharmaceutical companies about medicines that are suspected to be needed in Belgium. If they're needed, we'll keep them here. Anything else can leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u158	Then I shall re-table the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u159	Thank you, Minister. I hear that there would be no total shortage of drugs, but stocks in tension. I also understand that solutions are being actively sought with the AFMPS, and that strategic stocks are being developed in consultation with hospitals and pharmacists. Except that the formation of strategic stocks must not be at the heart of a crisis, but before it can be apprehended at best and ensure that health care personnel do not have to sort between patients due to an insufficient stock of medicines. I am aware that these words are very difficult to hear, but they are the ones that go back to the ground and always go in the same direction. Therefore, I really urge you not to minimize them and even less to criticize them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u160	Is anyone still asking for the floor? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-15-55-commissie-ic147x.u161	So I thank the minister for his availability.
