ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u1	Herr Präsident des Parlaments der Deutschprachigen Gemeinschaft, honourable fellow Members of the parliaments of the Regions and Communities and of the Chamber, on behalf of the President of the Chamber, welcome you. The climate issue is at the heart of all social, economic and political agendas around the world. And the European Union is now working on a Green Deal or Green Pact. At the end of last month, Belgium submitted its updated National Energy-Climate 2030 Plan to the European Commission. At the same time, Belgium was clearly asked to step up its climate efforts. In order to carry out a climate policy, measures must be taken in a multitude of areas of competence divided between the federated entities and the federal level in Belgium. However, since climate and climate challenges do not have borders, dialogue and consultation should be carried out in accordance with each other's respective competences. As a result of the difficult intra-Belgian dialogue on Burden Sharing, the presidents and members of the parliaments concerned decided during the previous legislature to meet on a regular basis on that dossier. The aim of the interparliamentary climate dialogue was to fill a gap in its work and to bridge the gap between the policies of the Länder and the federal state. This initiative was not without success, as a joint statement was adopted on 13 November 2017 following the COP 23 climate conference in Bonn. On 10 July 2018, a joint proposal of resolution was adopted in preparation for the COP 24 climate conference in Katowice. That resolution was subsequently adopted by the participating Parliaments in plenary. Since the previous elections, climate challenges have not diminished, on the contrary. Majorities in the Länder have been formed, government agreements have been approved and most governments are at work. The Chamber of Representatives has also been operational for a long time. The topics proposed by members of delegations are many: mobility and transport, security of energy supply, circular economy, innovation and competitiveness, financing of the energy transition, governance, Green Deal, and preparation of COP 26 to be held in Glasgow from 9 to 19 November 2020. In other words, it is high time to get to work, ladies and gentlemen. We will do the same today. Delegation leaders who wish to take the floor shall first have the opportunity to do so. Mr Lambertz, as President of the German-speaking Community, you will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u2	Vielen Dank. Wir thank us uns recht herzlich für diese Einladung und ich hoffe, daß das Klima nicht so schlecht ist wie meine Stimme. Ich habe eine Grippe und bin deshalb ein bisschen in Schwierigkeiten. Mr President, thank you for the invitation. We are very pleased to be part of this work, as we have done before. For the German-speaking Community, this participation is all the more important because since 1 January this year it has become competent, pursuant to an agreement on the basis of Article 139 of the Constitution, for part of energy policy. It is in this context and philosophy that we will participate and try to contribute to the overall objective that you have so well described.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the German-speaking Community participated last time as an observer. She now participates as a full member of the dialogue. Mrs Nikolic has the floor for the Walloon Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u4	Mr President, we would like to thank you for reinvigorating this interparliamentary dialogue which the Walloon Parliament's Climate Committee has repeatedly called for. It's a first for me. Nevertheless, I am aware of the work done so far. The Walloon Parliament is very ambitious with regard to the climate and we remain attentive to carrying out our ambitions in the interparliamentary dialogue in a constructive manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u5	Mr President, we are very pleased to see the work resumed today since the last meeting took place eight months ago. It is not because there is no federal government that parliaments do not work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u6	Mr President, this is also new to me, but together with a 16-person delegation we are happy to discuss the climate in the federal parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u7	What's on the agenda today? Soon we will discuss the organisation of work and our way of functioning. I propose that we begin with the content, and that is a statement by Mr Witttoeck. Mr Wittoeck is the chief negotiator for the Belgian delegation to the various COPs. Most of you know him by now. He's sitting next to me. We asked him to explain the results of COP 25 in Madrid and to look ahead to the challenges facing COP 26 in Glasgow. Then we will move on to the debate. In order for it to take place in an organized manner, I would ask for one person from each delegation to ask a question. So there will be a first round of five questions that Mr Wittoeck will answer. After that, there will be a second round of questions and so on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u8	Mr President, thank you for the invitation. I am pleased that the interparliamentary work in our federal country on a transversal issue such as the climate, when I hear you, ladies and gentlemen, starts with great enthusiasm. What you see here are the so-called warming stripes. This shows in a very visual way how our climate has changed worldwide. The colours speak for themselves, since the beginning of the industrial revolution in the middle of the nineteenth century until about today and at all latitudes. With this, these warming strips move from the same to different degrees. A very aesthetically beautiful image that in reality is much less beautiful for many people on this planet. As you requested, Mr. President, I will try to report to you on COP 25, the 25th Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, chaired by Chile, which was held in Madrid for the reasons you know. I immediately come to the door with a conclusion from that COP, a political conclusion, expressed by Mr António Guterres, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, who is perhaps well-known to you, who has campaigned very actively for a whole year, in particular to bring the level of ambition of the parties, the Member States of the United Nations and the parties to the Paris Agreement into line with what the science states as necessary to keep within reach the one and a half degrees, the Paris Agreement's objective. Mr Guterres was disappointed and I think that the disappointment about the outcome of the COP was shared by many. It is not just about the lack of a strong common signal from the international community that everyone is willing to bring the national level of ambition into line with Paris, but also about the process itself. We have once counted how many of the very many agenda items led to decisions and conclusions at the Madrid meeting. On the chart you can see that more than half of the calendar items have remained unsolved. Some items were actively postponed, so nothing was decided at that time, but it was decided to continue talking about it. Other items were postponed because there was no possibility of that. That's the famous rule 16 you see on the chart. It concerns rule 16 of the rules or procedures of a COP. Of course, decisions were taken on various issues, not all of which are gloomy and tormentful. The two logos you see appear are from the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) 5, on gender, and 14 on water. Indeed, on gender, as planned, the so-called Lima Action Plan on Gender was strengthened and extended for another five years. In connection with water, oceans, the COP was announced by Chile long in advance as Blue COP, the COP where the links between the oceans, the seas and the climate would be central. Last year the IPCC had also published a special report on the relationship between climate, on the one hand, and oceans and cryosphere, on the other. There has been a proposal from a number of countries – Indonesia, Fiji, Costa Rica – to formally establish a process within the UNFCCC within the climate negotiations, a dialogue that should lead to recommendations to the next COP. The discussions on this subject would seem obvious, because the Ocean-Climate Nexus is there, in reality, and it should be there in politics too. Nevertheless, it has proved quite difficult to reach a decision, which is strictly procedural in nature, i.e. the organisation of a dialogue. However, we have succeeded – the COP has nevertheless succeeded in being a blue COP – with the organization of a dialogue at the next intersessional meeting in Bonn in June during SBSTA 52. The IPCC not only published last year a report on the links between oceans, cryosphere and climate, but also a report on climate change and land use, which was not on the agenda at this Blue COP. But there was a great deal of pressure from many countries – surprisingly, for example, from a country like Saudi Arabia, which normally does not recognize, or not with much enthusiasm, the work of the IPCC – for the COP to also take a decision on the relationship between land use and climate change. This has resulted in a decision that is parallel to the decision on the oceans, but that, unlike the decision on the oceans, is focused exclusively on adaptation to climate change in relation to land use. We have not only managed to make decisions on these two or three issues. Like all COPs, the topic of funding, including the topic of financing actions in developing countries, was a hot topic. This was no less the case at this COP. But after negotiations that have proved very difficult, as always, we have succeeded in adopting decisions that give "guidance" to the various financial instruments of the international climate regime: the Standing Committee on Finance, the Green Climate Fund and the Global Environment Facility. On the sidelines, not in the context of the negotiations, it is important to mention the COPs, which have become increasingly gatherings, not just negotiators and diplomats, but all the actors interested in climate change, which are numerous. Another important element is the adoption by a coalition of finance ministers, whose initiative was taken, if I remember Finland recently, of an action plan in relation to financing. And this – not decided by the COP – in the context of the (replenishment) replenishment of the Green Fund, which is now again funded by almost ten billion dollars, and to which many parties, including Belgium, as you know, have doubled their contribution. On other issues related to climate policy financing, however, we did not agree. This concerns, for example, the new long-term objective of our common objective of mobilising climate finance in developing countries. The successor to the 100 billion dollars we will have to mobilise by this year, a year, will be something for COP 26 in Glasgow. As always, themes are the balance between the financing of mitigation and adaptation and the share of proceedings or the way in which the carbon market can contribute to international climate financing, which is a very important and delicate issue. These are also very common issues such as the composition of the Management Committee, the Board of the Adaptation Fund and very geopolitical issues such as access to finance by the Global Environment Facility for countries such as Palestine and Iran, which some parties regard as rogue states. For the rest of the red zone, the undecided part of the agenda items, I will focus here on the elements of the Paris Agreement Rulebook. You will remember that after Paris we still had to take a large number of decisions to make Paris fully enforceable. A large number of implementing decisions had yet to be taken by COP, or indeed CMA, under the Paris Agreement. That should have been decided at COP 24, more than a year ago, in Katowice in Poland. This has been achieved in most cases, except for what the Paris agreement calls cooperative approaches, particularly as regards the international carbon market, and also for a number of outstanding issues relating to loss and damage and enhanced transparency framework, the new reporting and follow-up regime that Paris had created. Transparancy, to start with, is a very technical matter, but also a very crucial matter. If you cannot follow up on what the parties do under the Paris Agreement, then you cannot verify whether they comply with their commitments. Nor can we look at whether we are all moving in the direction of the Paris objectives together. Most of the decisions that had to be made could be made in Katowice. What remained for Madrid were some very technical matters, reporting tables in essence. It should have been possible, therefore, if it had not been possible, that although Paris had consolidated the existing bipolar system between the developed industrialized countries, on the one hand, and the developing countries, on the other hand, into one common base, there was still flexibility on the system. One has to take into account the fact that many developing countries have much more limited capacity, in terms of, among other things, statistical reporting systems, compared to industrialised countries and the larger, richer developing countries. In short, the question of how to avoid reintegrating the firewall, the separation between industrial and developing countries, with which Paris had largely been involved, into the regime was discussed again. We do not yet have an answer to that, because we have not got out of it. Some progress has been made on some aspects, but we have not even been able to decide on a work programme for the further work by 2020. With regard to loss and damage, there is a more political problem. Let me remind you that climate policy has three pillars. Firstly, mitigation, emission reduction and the prevention of climate change; the second pillar is adaptation, adaptation to the inevitable consequences of climate change; the third pillar is, since Paris is also explicitly, loss and damage, all beyond adaptation: the consequences of climate change that one cannot reasonably prepare for, for example, a storm that goes over a small island state and causes damage in the order of three quarters of gross domestic product, or a low-lying atoll that becomes uninhabitable due to the rising sea level. I will only give two extreme examples of what we are talking about here. With regard to loss and damage, a number of points were still open. As always, these were related to financial support for developing countries in dealing with loss and damage, and further strengthening of the institutions created for Paris, in view of the international mechanism for sustainable development. An expert group has been set up in Madrid for this purpose, which will continue to work on supporting actions in developing countries. The Santiagonetwork will promote cooperation between all organisations that are involved in loss and damage worldwide in one way or another. Then I come to governance, who's in charge of loss and damage? Is that the COP under Paris or is that the COP under the Treaty? We didn't agree on that. That seems very technical and mundane, but it is also very political. The issue with loss and damage is the threat that the recognition of loss and damage could lead to a regime of objective liability that could give victims a legal basis for making claims under international law to the historical causes of climate change. Those claims could be of such magnitude that these historical causes become extremely nervous. In Paris a sleeve could be adapted by including in the decision accompanying Paris a disclaimer stating that Article 8 which deals with loss and damage cannot be a legal basis for such claims in international law. If the regime that controls loss and damage is kept under Paris, then the danger of those claims is partly averted. Now, some, especially those developing countries that can be the biggest victims, want COP to be responsible for this too. The COP of the Convention does not have that disclaimer, the safety clause against damages claims, namely. That is why there was no agreement on whether the Warsaw International Mechanism belongs under Paris or under the COP of the Treaty. I'll come to the carbon market, cooperative approaches. You will recall that Article 6 of the Paris Agreement created two new market mechanisms as successors to the market mechanism under the Kyoto Protocol. There is also a mechanism that should allow for cooperation on a basis other than the market. I won't talk about those non-market approaches, that's what it's gonna do. I will talk about the development of the two new market mechanisms in the context of Articles 6, 2 and 6, 4 of the Paris Agreement. The problems with this are two-fold, in general terms. On the one hand, these markets need to be regulated in a way that allows them to contribute to raising the level of ambition and avoid creating loopholes, that they would further reduce the level of ambition contained in the NDCs submitted by the parties to the Paris Agreement. That is a question of environmental integrity. The robust rules, which we need for this, to avoid damaging environmental integrity, environmental integrity, are also needed to maintain a level playing field in the international carbon market. If you have weak rules at international level, I dare to assume that Europe, as we have done with Paris, will introduce stricter rules for the use of credits from the international carbon market. Ergo, an uneven playing field for European players in the international market. So the robust rules, necessary for environmental integrity, apply equally to ensuring, as far as possible, the level playing field for European players in the international carbon market. On the other hand, the question is how this international carbon market, as envisaged by the Kyoto Protocol and worked for a while, but no longer after that, can contribute to the financing of adaptation actions in developing countries. Under the Kyoto Protocol, the Paris Agreement provides that, in part, "share" or "procededs" was therefore introduced, a kind of levy, if you like, of 2% under Kyoto, on CDM projects. That levy then benefited from the Adaptation Fund. Under Paris, it is foreseen that such a share of proceedings would also apply to the successor of the Clean Development Mechanism under the Paris Agreement. However, for the other mechanism to be created in accordance with Article 6, 2 of the Paris Agreement, such a share procedure is not provided for. I will first illustrate, graphically and quantitatively while remaining illustrative according to orders of magnitude, what could be the impact of bad rules of play for the carbon market on the level of ambition. This graph, I think you know it, shows the difference between on one side (green and yellow) the emission trajectories on which we should find ourselves by 2030 in order to be able to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement of 1.5°C or 2°C. The Blue Line represents the projected emissions that would result from the NDCs (nationally determined contributions), i.e. national actions under the Paris Agreement. As you can see, the gap between these two lines is already very large. I realize that the volumes mentioned in gigatons of CO2 equivalent are very abstract. What is more telling is that with this kind of deviation, we are not moving towards a world that would manage to limit the rise of temperature to 1°C, or even 2°C, but we are moving, according to Climate Analytics analysis, towards a world at 3°C above the pre-industrial level. This is the basis. If we find ourselves in a situation in which the various parties (the international community) to the Paris Agreement would not be able to close the potential loopholes in the regimes that manage the international carbon market, you can observe that there is a huge risk that this gap will become even greater. This graph shows only the first four potential problems for the environmental integrity of the carbon market under the Paris Agreement. The others are even more difficult to quantify and are not even included. This subject, as I said to you, was so controversial that we were unable to agree either in Katowice or in Madrid. Indeed, on the one hand, there was a coalition of countries very attached to the defence of this environmental integrity and the level playing fied that go hand in hand with, inter alia, a coalition that had already been launched at the pre-COP in San José, Costa Rica. This coalition has adopted a list of principles to serve as a basis for the carbon market. I'm not going to list them. I assume, Mr. Chairman, that members of this dialogue will have access to the presentation. As I said, this coalition brings together a considerable number of countries, even if they were not the majority. In doing so, a large part of the countries of the European Union, including Belgium, have subscribed to these principles. I come back to these principles to illustrate three of the difficult issues that were discussed at this COP, related to the establishment of rules for the carbon market. First of all, there is the question, as I have already referred to, of the carbon market already existing under the Kyoto Protocol. There is also the question of credits, which could be transferred and which could still be transferred in the context of the Kyoto Protocol and which could be used under the new regime created by the Paris Agreement. Countries such as Brazil, but also the large Like-Minded Developing Countries coalition with very large countries such as China and India want to be able to use all of these credits. It should be noted that the market created by the Kyoto Protocol no longer exists. This market has collapsed because of the huge oversupply of worthless loans, in particular through the creation of non-additional CDM credits, but certainly also by hot air, the surplus of sign-demand units from the countries of the former Soviet Union and a number of Member States of the European Union. If those units were to be injected, it would be billions of tonnes of CO2 in the market bubble of the Paris Agreement, then the level of ambition of Paris would collapse. The same applies to double counting. I'm not an accounting expert, but counting an amount twice looks like fraud. At the level of discussions on carbon market accounting rules in the Paris Agreement, there are countries that are in favour, without any inconvenience, of counting a tonne of CO2 reduced as if it were two tonnes: once for themselves and once for the country purchasing these credits. Brazil, the Like-Minded Developing Countries and a number of African countries do not want any obligation to carry out this accounting which should be used to avoid this double counting. On the other hand, we find the European Union and not a lot of other countries. However, this was not the case for the use of pre-2020 units, as the European Union has not been able to reach agreement since a number of Member States are in possession of such units and are committed to being able to use them after 2020. The Share of Processes, i.e. the carbon market's contribution to the financing of adaptation actions in developing countries, is also a subject that has divided the parties and contributed significantly to the disagreement over the part of the Paris Rulebook on Article 6. There was – and is rare – a great unity among the developing countries – united in the G77 Group and China – to demand such a Share of Processeds, not only in the context of Article 6.4 but also of Article 6.2 of the Paris Agreement. On the other hand, the industrialized countries oppose it. As I said, there is no agreement. Discussions continue not on one text but on three versions of the text attached to Bonn at the meetings of the subsidiary bodies of the agreement. I started with a quote from Mr Guterres and I believe that the fact that he was disappointed was less related to what I have just told you about the failure in terms of procedures on the Paris Rulebook than to the gap between the levels of ambition necessary to be able to meet the objectives of the Paris Agreement. Given this context, I turn to the IPCC's analysis in 2018 regarding, in particular, the emission reductions needed to stay below 1.5°C of temperature increase, with a goal – if so called – rather the need to reduce global emissions to zero net around 2050. This translates into a 45 per cent reduction from 2010 levels, according to the trajectories compiled by the IPCC, by 2030, in ten years' time. That's the challenge. There is therefore a gap. The fact that we were heading towards 3°C rather than around 1.5°C, or even 2°C, is not new. We did not have to wait for the IPCC report, or other analyses, to know that the nationally determined contributions (NDCs) from countries that have ratified the Paris Agreement were not going to be enough to stay below these temperature limits. It is for this reason that the Paris Agreement itself created what I continue to call "a mechanism of ambition" with, every five years, a global stocktake, that is, a collective assessment of the level of ambition compared with the necessary level of ambition. This started in 2018 and will follow a five-year cycle. This will be followed each time by the submission by the Paris Agreement parties of new CDNs, new objectives and new action plans, about two years after this collective evaluation. This will take place for the first time in 2020. Since 2017, the first phase of this cycle is being prepared. This will be the first time that the ambition mechanism will be started. At COP 23 in Bonn, under the chairmanship of Fiji, started what was called the Talanoa Dialogue. This was a process that was to lead, at COP 24 in Katowice, Poland, at the end of 2018, to a signal that could assure the parties to the Paris Agreement that each would contribute to increasing the level of ambition aimed at narrowing the gap between what was already decided at national level and what was needed at the level of the Paris objectives. This Dialogue took place in the same year as the publication of the IPCC report on 1.5°C – I refer to the chart I have just shown – but it did not lead to the result that we could have expected. I would like to give you a quote from the Polish Minister while Poland was presiding over the COP, who had already announced that he did not intend to conduct the discussions with the aim of increasing climate ambition. In 2019, a new dynamic was launched by UN Secretary-General António Guterres. He organized a United Nations Climate Action Summit in September, which you're probably aware of. He has been actively campaigning for a whole year to encourage countries to present action plans, nationally determined contributions in the Paris jargon, which are in line with what the IPCC says is necessary to keep 1.5 degrees in range, i.e. 45% by 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050. That was Mr Guterres' ambition for his summit in New York on 23 September last year. He only managed to do so in part. The summit can be called a success, in the sense that many initiatives have been launched. A number of countries have promised to present more ambitious NDCs this year. A similar number of countries have announced their intention to work towards a policy of net zero emissions by 2050. If we sell the emissions that the countries represent against global emissions and the emission reductions that are needed, that will remain a drop in the ocean. The great exponents, the members of the G20, are for the most part not among them. COP 26 has not been able to change so much there. There are a number of countries that have also endorsed the Climate Ambition Alliance, but still not the big protesters. The COP in Madrid also had the ambition, again, episode 3 of the COP-series ambition, to give a political signal, a common signal from the international community that when countries start thinking about the NDCs they will have to present this year, they will take into account the gap that still exists between policies and objectives. They succeeded in doing so for a very small part. The Chile Madrid Time for Action, a decision under the Paris Agreement, repeats a great many of the things that had already been decided in Paris. The message that was already there remains and adds one element to it. That is the element of the gap and its concern. It is not just a matter of concern, but also of concern, and this is the first time that the explicit call for "urges parties" has been made in strong terms to take account of this gap when they will present new or updated and updated NDCs in 2020. The COP 26 will thus once again become a COP of ambition. It will be the first COP after we have seen all the NDCs and where one way or another a judgment will have to be made whether we are all on the right track together or not. So it's quite a package for COP 26. One could make the analysis that many of the things that could not be decided on in Madrid are many, remember one of my first graphs, namely the green-red doughnuts were things that one deliberately did not want to decide, precisely to keep the package of different decisions needed for COP 26 large and thus increase the number of levers in the negotiations. Mr Guterres was disappointed, but he did not give up, so he continued to take action at his level to persuade countries to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 and keep the 1.5 degree target within reach. I am going to the European level. It is a little early to be very specific about what we can expect from COP 26. The British colleagues, who we have seen for the last time at a European meeting on international climate policy earlier this month, have not yet really shown their sights, but what is clear is that there is a great deal to be done at European level, particularly in the context of the European Green Deal. I begin with a specific aspect of the European Green Deal, in which the European Union continues to profile itself as a leader in international negotiations in a very explicit way. This is continuity, but enhanced continuity, strengthening the role of international diplomacy with other international instruments at the disposal of the European Union. The bottom two bullets on the list are potentially two very powerful levers for the European Union to encourage other countries to take action: integrating respect for the Paris Agreement into trade agreements and the possibility of introducing a carbon adjustment mechanism in 2021. These are important levers that the European Union has unilaterally at its disposal to encourage other parties to take action on a global scale. The European Union also has a clear ambition to take on its leadership role in terms of example. We have been working for some time on the long-term strategy to be presented by all parties to the Paris Agreement by 2020. There is the proposal of the previous European Commission from 2018, Clean Planet For All, which aims to be climate neutral by 2050. This objective is now strongly supported by the European Commission's proposals for a European Green Deal. Not only at the level of the European Commission, but also at the level of the Member States and the European Council, clear signals have already been given, step by step. At the June 2019 European Council, it was decided that we are moving towards a climate-neutral Europe, but not yet that this should be by 2050, as the IPCC requires. At that time, four countries were still at odds. On 12 December 2019, at COP, all Member States, including the four I just showed you in red, agreed that the European Union would become climate neutral by 2050. There is one small caveat of Poland, of course. That's the one member state you see here. It is a quote from the conclusions of the European Council. Poland says very clearly that it supports the European objective of climate neutrality by 2050, but it cannot yet commit itself, in the current context and at this stage, to implementing it effectively at national level. This will be continued at a forthcoming European Council meeting in June 2020. That was the long-term objective, but there is also the short term. 2020 is the year in which we are presenting a new NDC. You are undoubtedly aware of the announced ambition of the European Commission, as contained in the Green Deal proposal to set European emissions for Horizon 2030 at 50% or perhaps 55%, whereas that is now 40%. No decisions have yet been taken on this at Council level and at the meeting of the Member States of the European Union. Last year, 10 Member States announced at the New York Summit that they are working at national level to raise the level of ambition. This is already a step in the direction that the debate between the Member States will take on that aspect of the Green Deal. I will show you here a small part of the resolution adopted by the European Parliament for COP 25. In fact, they had already decided something similar in the COP 24 resolution. They are in favour of an emission reduction of 55% in the territory of the European Union, domestic greenhouse gas emissions, i.e. without using the carbon market. Of course, this is linked to the call for other countries to also increase their level of ambition. It is not unimportant that this resolution could count on a large majority in the European Parliament. It was carried by the largest political groups in that parliament. I'm gonna go a little deeper on the Green Deal. That's 25 pages with a few more pages of appendages. Nevertheless, it is not a climate or energy strategy, in the words of Mrs von der Leyen herself it is the European Union's new growth strategy. It uses terms that I have never heard a President of the Commission speak before, things like regenerative economy and giving back to the planet more than we take away. That is the narrative of the Von der Leyen Commission. That Green Deal is really becoming the heart of European core policy. For example, if we look at the European Union's macro-economic policy and adjust what Member States are doing in the context of the European Semester, we can see that the annual growth strategy "the kick-off of the annual cycle of the European Semester' states that economic growth is not an end in itself. This is the very first sentence of the new annual growth strategy proposed by the Commission. The paradigmashift of a new model of growth is repeated. Sustainability as a core and not as a peripheral element. This illustrates the fact that the new European Commission really puts sustainability in all its aspects at the heart of all its policies. This Green Deal is not a climate plan, it is not an environmental plan, it is a new growth strategy and it affects the whole of European policy and, indirectly, the policies of the Member States. That Green Deal aims to fundamentally transform our economy in a way that is social. As Mrs von der Leyen herself says, that Green Deal has to work for everyone or he won't work. This is true both at the level of the different circumstances of different Member States of the European Union, but also in terms of different population groups within those Member States. Of course, the large blocks of initiatives include climate ambition, climate neutrality, 50% and 55%. Inevitably, therefore, there is also a great deal about energy, industry and the reform of European industry is very central to the building park and its renovation. But beyond that, in the broader environmental and health policy, with issues that are very closely related to climate and energy, there is the ambition to move towards a toxic free environment, the protection of ecosystems and biodiversity, the reform of agricultural policy as a function of it, and of course mobility as well. All this is supported by a rather robust package of financial measures and by that frameworking condition of a just transition, a just transformation and transition of our economy to ensure that no one is left behind. Not unimportant to mention here too, it is a bit in the margins, is that the European Commission does not want to do so alone from its own angle. It also wants to do so in cooperation with the Member States, which it obviously cannot do otherwise. She wants to do the same with the citizens, with the stakeholders. A European climate pact is announced in terms of governance of this Green Deal. That's gonna be real soon. A number of points in the Green Deal communication are more directly related to the European climate ambition and are therefore partly the political message in the run-up to COP 26 that Europe sets a good example. I'll give you a little more detail on that. Under the heading climate of the Green Deal, as early as March 2020, a legislative proposal from the European Commission to make the objective of climate neutralisation by 2050, which has now been politically validated by the European Council, legally binding. By the summer of 2020, the European Commission was expected to present a proposal on how to increase the level of ambition at Horizon 2030. It will be tight to have that proposal counted as a political signal in the run-up to COP 26. Hopefully, the preparatory work, the intention of the European Commission and the reception of the communication by the Member States and the European Parliament can also count as a political signal and thus encourage other parties to take serious action to increase their level of ambition. Linked to this and depending on what the 2030 plan aims to increase the level of ambition, in 2021 the whole package of climate and energy legislation will be designed to deliver emissions trading, efficiency sharing, renewable energy, energy efficiency, CO2 standards for passenger cars, vans and trucks, to effectively implement European legislation at European level and the obligations for European Member States on the said 50-55 % targets. I have already mentioned the carbon border adjustment mechanism as an alternative to what is already contained in the ETS on the protection of our companies' competitiveness vis-à-vis companies operating in countries where lower carbon prices and less ambitious climate policies apply. I have already spoken about the revision of the directive on renewable energy and energy efficiency, but there will also be a strategy for the further roll-out of offshore winds and the interconnection of electricity networks. There will be an initiative for the renovation of buildings, with the aim of doubling the degree of renovation. An industrial strategy will also be coming very soon, in March. A new action plan for the circular economy is linked to this, because these things are very closely linked. There are a number of sectors explicitly mentioned by the Commission in its Communication in terms of a sustainable industrial strategy: a steel initiative, a battery initiative in the context of the circular economy, for example. In the context of steel, the objective is to have a carbon-neutral steel production sector by 2030. As far as mobility is concerned, this is the following. I was talking about emission standards for passenger cars, trucks and vans. Among other things, it concerns the possibility of extending the emissions trading system to the shipping sector, to make the aviation sector's participation in the EU ETS less non-binding and to give less free allowances to those sectors. A number of very concrete proposals are being announced here. The two bases, the rather much defining underlying conditions for the success of the European Green Deal, are the funding, on the one hand, and the inclusive character, the justice or fairness of the transition, on the other. In this context, we have received a proposal from the Commission, in particular on a just transition mechanism, which bridges the two pillars of financing and equity. More broadly, there is a new investment plan for a sustainable Europe. We will also see Commission proposals in relation to national budgets and the use of state aid in the context of the Green Deal. The Commission has announced that it believes that it will be able to invest, with the various measures it proposes in the financial context of the Green Deal, a thousand billion euros over the next ten years. These billions come not only from the European budget, but also from national budgets, the private sector, etc. On the screen, you see the concept of this investment plan, with more or less half a billion euros from the European budget. It is not yet decided in the multiannual financial framework, but I have just read that the President of the Council Charles Michel has announced that he will try to reach agreement on this multiannual financial framework on 20 February. There is also the use of the various instruments, the main one of which is called InvestEU – which is the successor of the Juncker plan – depending on the funding needed for the success of the Green Deal. As far as the transition mechanism is concerned, it contains a new Fair Transition Fund which should be able to mobilise EUR 30 to 50 billion in the most vulnerable countries and which have the most difficulty in achieving the low-carbon transition. These are countries that rely heavily on the use of coal – for example Poland – or have a large concentration of carbon-emitting industries. It's not just that fund. There is also the new Juncker plan (InvestEU programme) which will dedicate money which would also lead to the mobilization of a comparable amount (45 billion dollars). There are also the actions of the European Investment Bank which – Mrs von der Leyen had already announced in her policy guidelines – should become the European Climate Bank which could generate 25 to 30 billion investments. These resources will not be given to Member States or regions in need. Funding is conditional on the submission of a territorial (territorial transition plan) plan, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the requirement for co-financing at national level. With this, in the Commission's proposal, the Member States of the European Union could count on a mobilizable amount of money (consultable in the last column of this small table). As far as Belgium is concerned, it would potentially be entitled to EUR 68 million from the Fair Transition Fund. But with the different levers contained in the rest of the package and the need to co-finance with national money, Belgium could mobilise almost one billion euros for the "just transition". The European Council has not yet spoken on the Commission's proposals. Parliament, on the other hand, adopted a general resolution on the Green Deal on 15 January. It is a resolution which, in a very general way, very much welcomes the Commission's proposals. I would like to show you the first paragraph in which the Commission welcomes the communication, shares the committee committees, a resolution which has been approved by a large majority of the Members of the European Parliament and has been carried by the various political groups in the European Parliament. We must now see how the Council will position itself. The Commission has, as it always does, sent its communication on the Green Deal to the European Parliament, but also to the Council of the European Union. As I said, the Council has not yet spoken. Exchanges of views are planned, etc. But there are no conclusions yet. What we have done is to see which members of the European Parliament are members of political parties that are part of the national governments of the Member States. As you can see, a large majority of the parties present in governments at national level, most of the members of these parties, in the European Parliament, voted in favour of this resolution, with the notable exception, to the right, of Poland. Almost all the Members of the European Parliament who are members of the ruling parties in Poland voted against this resolution. However, this gives an indication of the potential political support of the Member States within the Council. It is also useful to look at... The Green Deal itself will not be voted on; it will be potentially welcomed, with Council conclusions that are adopted by consensus. However, if we look at the Roadmap, the list of fifty actions for 2050, as Mrs von der Leyen calls it, there are many proposals that are legislative in nature. For most of the topics dealt with, the Council is voted on and qualified majority voting is the rule. For information, a legislative proposal is accepted in the Council if the Member States voting in favour represent 65% of the European population – represented here by the orange line on the charts. The small orange dots are the population of each country. As you can see, with the countries with a majority of political parties that voted in favour of the Green Deal in the European Parliament, we are just going beyond the 65 % condition to reach a qualified majority. In particular, according to this analysis, Belgium would achieve this majority. This is obviously only an indication. To be seen in the various elements... The various amendments could not be analysed on all the specific points of the Green Deal, but this nevertheless gives an indication of the political will present within the national majorities of the Member States of the European Union. Mr President, I will end my speech with a small point about the role of Belgium, not just as a European Member State in the wider context of the discussions on the Green Deal. I would also like to point out that it will be a real task to ensure that all the filières and all the levels of policy across all the different aspects of the new growth strategy can achieve united positions in an inclusive and transparent way. I am talking about this because Belgium, like the European Union, will have to present a long-term strategy in 2050 in the context of the Paris Agreement. Article 15 of the Energy Union Governance Regulation also obliges a Member State of the European Union to submit a long-term strategy to the European Commission. We should have done so by 1 January 2020. However, that has not yet been achieved. You can see the timeline below. I also briefly describe the methodology, because, Mr President, you also mentioned that cooperation and dialogue are at the heart of the discussions that are currently taking place. The methodology decided by the four governments concerned, the three regional governments and the federal government, in order to establish a long-term strategy is a methodology similar to the methodology used for the National Energy and Climate Plan. Each "identity" "the federal state" is of course not a federated entity, but that term is used "the Federal State" develops its own strategy. The various strategies will eventually be linked. This is the methodology decided in April 2019. The three Regions, Brussels, Wallonia and the Flemish Region, adopted their regional strategies in November and December 2019. The federal government hasn't adopted a strategy. The document included in the discussions is a vision document developed by the administration. Discussions between the Ministerial Policy Cells and the Cabinets with a view to a decision or validation of a text by the Consultation Committee at the end of February 2020 are about to end. That text would look like the following. First, the three regional strategies, as approved by the regional governments; a kind of overarching text, a summary where possible, with the literal text of the three regional strategies annexed to that text. Then, at best, as some kind of contextual element, the federal vision document, actually the federal administration vision document. It seems that Belgium will have fulfilled its formal obligation to impose a long-term strategy on the European Commission within a reasonable time, even after the deadline. I believe that the real challenge lies in the further roll-out of this long-term strategy. At best, such a long-term strategy provides clear objectives and a number of orientations, as well as the federal vision document. It indicates where the yards can be located. Of course, this strategy can only become a policy if it is further developed. In particular, this should be done in the form of a participatory process with all actors in society, also on the basis of the intention of regional strategies. Mr President, so far my speech has been made. Thank you for your attention and I am happy to answer questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u9	Thank you, Mr Wittoeck, for your statement. Colleagues, in order to launch the debate, I propose that we work with a round of questions which will cover the various parties, rather than work by delegation, because in the latter case there is a risk that certain parties will simply not be addressed. I'm applying the D'Hondt rule as laid down in the Chamber. I therefore propose that one speaker be given the opportunity to speak per party. I will ask everyone to limit themselves to two minutes per question, otherwise we will still be here tonight, and to mention his name and the assembly to which he belongs. I would therefore ask you to state your name and state which parliament you belong to. The staff of our secretariat do not know everyone, for which apologies, but that will improve in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u10	Mr President, we are going to ask questions about the presentation, but which do not concern the continuation of the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u11	Yes, absolutely. After this debate, we will discuss the arrangements for the work. Is everyone okay with that M.O.? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u12	Mr President, my name is Andries Gryffroy, I am in the Flemish Parliament. Mr Witttoeck, first I would like to make a general comment. In the trias energy is the most important thing that is always considered first what we can do more efficiently in terms of energy consumption, materials and raw materials. Afterwards, we look at what energy we still want, and finally, this energy must be as sustainable and as cost-effective as possible. I don't always find that in your presentation. Nevertheless, I think this is an important part, that it should even be the starting point of all possible discussions and decisions. Let me give you an example: correct me if I am wrong. The Just Transition Mechanism of Just Transition Fund consists of the provision of €68 million from the European Commission for Belgium. However, this 68 million euro will only be granted if Belgium supplies a total of EUR 1 billion. On slide 43, you presented the other countries and I saw very clearly that the coal countries receive most of the euros on the basis of them. This does not correspond to what we believe should be the basic premise, namely that energy, materials and raw materials should be handled as efficiently as possible, and that what is then necessary for basic energy should be as sustainable as possible and as cost-effective as possible. I do not think energy generated from coal is particularly sustainable. My second important question concerns the carbon tax, which you mention but on which you do not express your opinion. I'd like to ask you what you think is the most interesting system. The answer could be the carbon tax, but it could also simply be free trade agreements, as one will soon be concluded, namely the free trade agreement between the European Union and Vietnam, which clearly states that Vietnam must abide by the rules laid down in the Paris Agreement. What's your opinion on that? Should we introduce a carbon tax, which actually means that we are locked up, if I may put it that way, or should we use our market power to impose stricter environmental requirements through free trade agreements?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u13	Thank you for your statement, Mr Wittoeck. First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for you, as a speaker who was announced as the chief negotiator. We should be proud in our country of our people, of our diplomats and of the negotiations we have been running for decades in the field of climate policy. Certainly the first part of the presentation, on COP 25, confirms that once again. Generally speaking, climate change and the necessary solutions bring us together in the Chamber today. Climate change and the necessary solutions concern matters that citizens ask us and scientists tell us. The companies are also ready today. Sometimes it seems that we, the politicians, are not ready for that, but the fact that climate policy brings together all the different parliaments here today, we must vote hopefully. So we too can find each other. We can work together on climate ambition and on viable solutions. That won't be easy, because it's a very complex matter. All governments in our country are competent. We have different nuances and shades, but in the end I am convinced that dialogue will bring us to the solutions. This dialogue is also what is really needed if we are to achieve an important consensus. Colleagues, this dialogue must be conducted not only with each other here in Parliament, but also with the various stakeholders in society. I'll put my first question to that right away. Mr Witttoeck, there has been a public survey on the National Climate and Energy Plan, but there has been no public survey on the long-term strategy. You referred to Article 15 of the governance regulation, but if I understand it correctly, public consultation is equally necessary for the long-term strategy. Are there any plans to organise them after all? Could the federal climate administration, for example, be well placed to manage such a route? I also had a question about COP 26. We can dwell on COP 25 but the explanation was very good. How do you see the Presidency of COP 26 in the context of the Brexit and, above all, in the context of the role of Europe? Europe is usually a leader in climate negotiations. Is there any idea of how Brexit and Europe will relate to each other?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u14	Mr Wittoek, thank you for your presentation on the COP and the Green New Deal. This gives us a general view of the work being done on climate policy at the international level. Other voices are raised around the world, including that of young people, to demand an increase in climate ambitions. I am pleased to be able to attend today, for the first time, this interparliamentary dialogue, which gives me the hope of overcoming the divisions in order to respond to the climate emergency. However, this dialogue will only benefit from the scope that will be given to it; this is a point that will be brought to the order of business. But let's go back to the COP, this specific point that you presented to us. The results of the last COP have disappointed many parties. What particular points of attention do you think Belgium should pay attention to? On the basis of the example of other countries around the world, what, in your opinion, are the innovative actions and ideas on energy supply that we could study, because this is a subject on which we are working in the House and which could be of interest to colleagues in other parliaments?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u15	Thank you, Mr Witttoeck, on behalf of my group, for your statement. I have a question about the Transition Fund. I have heard that the Commission would indicate the eligible regions by the end of February. The territorial plans must then be submitted. Could you go into more detail about this procedure? There is, of course, an aspect there concerning national co-financing. Where should this be negotiated? Is that what's happening in the Conciliation Committee? Flanders has announced its long-term strategy: it aims to reduce by 85% by 2050. That is, of course, not complete climate neutrality. You also know that, within the Belgian delegation at COP 25, there was an agreement to join those states that want a strong carbon market, but that there was no real agreement to go to the highest level of ambition. This brings us straight back to what I said earlier, but that also refers to the fall of about 32 % by 2030 for Flanders. How do you see that evolving in the next few months? It is a political question, of course, but I would like to present it to you, as a senior official.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u16	Mr Wittoeck, thank you for your comprehensive briefing. Having said that, I would like to ask you three more specific questions. You mentioned COP 25, which is a blue COP. It was very important for our country to join. Like many states, Belgium recalled this goal of further protecting the ocean by 2030. We stress the need for an ambitious and effective treaty on the protection of biodiversity outside national jurisdiction. In particular, with regard to the creation of marine protected areas, do you have any progress? Secondly, with regard to Article 6 of which you have spoken extensively, the aim is obviously to bring this matter to a successful conclusion at COP 26 in Glasgow. In your opinion, have the lines moved in this regard since COP 25? Have you heard any echoes from Saudi Arabia, Brazil, India and, above all, the United States that are in the midst of an electoral campaign? What would be the consequences for article 6? Finally, how do you look at our decision-making process – both for COP 25 and for others – who are at the heart of its machinery? We know that climate policy is shared between different levels of power – regional and federal. We saw that our four ministers were attending the COP. In a moment, Mr President, I think we are going to talk about governance in this area. In short, Mr Wittoeck, what does this decision-making, which at least is not very effective, inspire you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u17	Mr President, I am Robrecht Bothuyne, Flemish Parliament. In my turn, I would like to thank Mr Wittoeck for his contribution and for all the work he has done in recent years, especially for the latest COP. That COP wasn't a success. Whether the COP in Glasgow will be better is still to be seen. Mr Witttoeck, I particularly have questions about the European Green Deal. That project excites me. The European Commission is particularly ambitious in its work. I hear you saying that the objectives must be set by summer. Are impact assessments being prepared? In what way and on what basis? Is there a dialogue with the Member States on this? Can we somehow get a hold of that? With regard to the Just Transition Fund, the 68 million euros for Belgium seems to me to be a low amount. A number of colleagues have already referred to the particularly high amounts for countries associated with coal and other non-sustainable materials. Given that Belgium, and especially Flanders, has a particularly energy-intensive industry and is therefore facing a huge transition, it seems to me justified to ask for higher funding from Europe for our transition. In what way can this possibly be achieved? Investment is needed and will be attracted. The amount of EUR 1,000 billion of investment is something that appeals to the imagination. In what way is that monitored? What level are we at now in Belgium? Can we get figures on this or can we do something about it? Finally, Mr President, I have a question concerning the organisation of work. I think it is useful that the long-term strategy that Belgium will present with all its entities should also be proposed in our interfederal committee to enter into dialogue on this basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u18	Thank you for your suggestion, which we will certainly look into.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u19	Mr President, I am a member of the Parliament of Wallonia. Mr Wittoeck, thank you. I have two questions to ask you about COPs 25 and 26. The PTB-PVDA's research department has recently produced a dossier in which it can be seen that in Belgium, five multinationals pollute almost as much as all Belgian households combined. These are ENGIE Electrabel, Total, ArcelorMittal, BASF and ExxonMobil. As citizens face ever more constraints on respect for the environment (low-emission zones, waste taxes, etc.).), companies that pollute a lot only face the constraints they want to impose, since if they pay, they can continue to pollute. And I'm not talking about taxes that they hardly pay in our country: 2.7 billion tax cuts for 10 billion cumulative profits. This raises the question of the contribution of these groups to the climate effort in relation to the efforts imposed on the population. The other question is that ENGIE and Total are also sponsors of COP 25. It is no coincidence that Brazil and Australia blocked negotiations at the COP. Far-right Brazilian President Bolsonaro directly defends the interests of agro-industry and Australian Prime Minister Morrison is an open defender of the coal industry. As a result, the COP is blocked directly and indirectly by multinationals and some governments that defend their profits. Will this change for COP 26 to set goals that meet the needs of people and the environment and not the profit needs of multinationals? An important item on the COP 25 agenda was Article 6 on the global carbon market or other forms of voluntary cooperation. However, the ETS experience shows that such a carbon market is not working, is ineffective and socially unfair. In our view, instead of a market system, we need binding standards, as in the fight against ozone depletion – the Montreal Protocol at the time. Mr Wittoeck, how do you see the evolution of the COPs in climate and social justice? What do you think of binding standards for the largest polluters instead of the carbon market?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u20	Bruno Tobback, Flemish Parliament. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Wittoeck for his crystal clear statement, as far as it is possible to be crystal clear about the COPs throughout history. If anyone can do it, you are, especially when it comes to the European Green Deal. It is noted that it is particularly ambitious, but I think that, as it is a strategy for economic growth, economic future and prosperity, it cannot be ambitious enough. So let us particularly welcome them in our committee and in this country, which is very dependent on a European thriving economy geared towards the future. I have a very specific question concerning the Transition Fund. It is often noted that the Belgian share is relatively small in relation to coal countries. Has it been implicitly or explicitly linked to the European funds that Belgium has been able to use in the past, for example in the closure of coal mines such as the Structural Funds? Actually, that's a bit of the same step in history, but less explicitly linked to climate. Are there any comparisons in those budgets? Will the money from the Transition Fund, if it goes to the coal countries, be explicitly tied to the closure of coal mines? In that case, we have little reason to be angry about it, as we have once called for it in a different way. If, however, there is no direct link between the resources that one gets and the adjustment of the economy and the closure of undesirable activities, there is obviously a problem, because then we are just pouring money down the drain.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u21	Mr Wittoeck, I am François Desquesnes, Member of the Parliament of Wallonia. Thank you for your intervention. It is never easy to translate relatively technical and complex debates into summaries and issues of a political nature; but I think you have allowed us to take a step forward. Three points of attention. The first concerns the review of COP 25. You have nevertheless shown some positive elements. I think it is also important to highlight these aspects. As you said, there are two types of blockages in countries that do not want to move forward. Belgium is one of the 66 countries that want to move forward. What is the balance of power between those who say "we have a different past, a different history, a different level of development, we need to be more financially compensated" and those who are in a totally climatosceptical logic, "there is no effort to make"? Secondly, the European aspect, I think, is an important aspect. As you said, with the new President of the Commission, Mrs von der Leyen, we are dealing with a Copernician revolution. I very much like the words you used by saying "this is a new growth strategy that avoids putting back to back those who do not want to make efforts and those want to make efforts in a constrained manner". I think that's a positive logic. Compared to that, I have two sub-questions. How do we combine the logic of the ETS that already exists in Europe, and the rest? How do we combine the two elements to achieve our greenhouse gas reduction targets? In particular, the second question concerns financing. Of course, as others have mentioned, the budgetary resources allocated to the Transition Fund are not very important for Belgium. All in all, we're talking about $1 billion. In Wallonia, it is a €5 billion transition investment plan. The scales are shown to be relatively low. Somewhere, I think it's normal. But there is also a question of easing budgetary rules. What is the situation today in the Green Deal debate on these fiscal easing rules that will be necessary to implement transition plans in all our regions, whether in Flanders, Brussels or Wallonia? Thirdly, among the fast-moving European countries, you said that there were ten countries ready to move forward. These are mainly Western European countries, with an island: Belgium. Why?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u22	Mr President, I am Marie Nagy, Member of the Brussels Parliament. Thank you for the organization and I join with the congratulations and thanks to Mr. Wittoeck, who, in a very clear way, presented us with the results of the COP and the challenges ahead. I wanted to stress, with regard to what you said about the strategy of the European Green Deal, how important it is. Addressing the climate emergency requires a response. We are no longer in denunciation, nor in the state of affairs, but in a plan of action. It allows you to go out from the top and respond to the challenges of the climate. Before we present a proposal to listen to the people, we, as Members of Parliament and representatives of the people, must say that Europe is a favourable element, and that it wants to present an ambitious plan which positions the European Union in leadership at international level, and which also wants this transition to be fair and equitable. It's great and good news; it's important. Belgium is a laboratory, with three Regions and a federal structure. All this little world must agree to have a coherent strategy. I am pleased that the Brussels Region has presented an ambitious plan that puts us at the level of the Paris Agreement. But I see that at the level of intra-Belgian negotiations, the result is not there. How can the dialogue be established between federated entities and federal entities in order to achieve an outcome consistent with the objectives? I would like a clarification of the San José Agreement. If I understand correctly, Belgium is a signatory to this agreement. But when I see the outcome of the three plans and what is to be expected, we are not even yet in the Paris Agreement. It's no better. I support the question of easing funding issues. If the federal government is to intervene for the Regions, given the current budgetary situation, it will be difficult to support major and significant investments, which will be necessary. I have one more question about trade treaties. You said these treaties should integrate the objectives of the Paris Agreement. But is it binding or not? I am thinking of the example of Mercosur. If I understand correctly, Brazil would then be recognized as respecting the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u23	Mr Witttoeck, you have been listening carefully, and we are listening with great interest to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to answer you as best I can. I will deal with the questions in chronological order. Mr Gryffroy, you spoke of a contradiction between the concept of Just Transition Mechanism and Just Transition Fund, on the one hand, and the Trias Energetica, on the other. It is not the intention of the European Commission to follow a principle such as trias energetics, but to ensure that, in those regions of the European Union that have the most difficulty in implementing the transition, the lack of financial resources is not an obstacle. That's crystal clear. I don't really understand why you would want to use this trias energy as a base. It is important to note that the Just Transition Mechanism is one of the first elements of the Green Deal on which the European Commission has already put forward concrete legislative proposals, which have also been quantified. This is because finding a consensus within Europe is important about how we can get those Member States, those regions within those Member States, and the people and businesses of those regions that are going to have the most difficulty on board. If the European Council again discusses in June the inclusion of the one member state that is unable to achieve net zero emissions, that is of course a consequence. The Just Transition Mechanism should be seen in that context. Mr Gryffroy, you also asked a question about what is interesting, on the one hand, a carbon border tax or carbon border mechanism or, on the other hand, the use of European market power. I will not comment on it myself, because that is indeed political, but both are combined in the European Commission's proposals. Yesterday, during a Belgian stakeholder consultation on the Green Deal, the man responsible for the Green Deal in Mrs von der Leyen's cabinet said that we should never have to use that carbon border tax. People work with carrots and sticks. First of all, it's a stick behind the door, which hopefully we'll never have to use. If we do not have to use it, this means that the other major economic powers are on board for the transition to a low carbon economy. Mrs Van der Straeten, you raised the question of whether there has been a public survey of the long-term strategy. There hasn't been one. It is requested by European legislation. The draft document speaks of this. I can tell you that the document is being prepared that, due to time constraints, it was not possible to organise a public survey of the long-term strategy and that the other information gives sufficient insight into what public opinion is. These are not the exact terms, but that is how one intends to explain the absence of a specific public consultation with the European Commission. The other part of your question is whether there are plans for public participation after the submission of the long-term strategy, which hopefully will take place in the course of next month. One of my last slides shows that in the regional long-term strategies there is indeed, in general terms, a follow-up path, and that this goes in the direction of participatory processes. I have also told you that there is no separate federal part of the national strategy approved by the federal government, but that there is a document from the administration that has been discussed with it in the context of the Belgo-Belgian consultation on the long-term strategy. This may in part be a first step, which was also the intention to develop, by identifying a large number of yards, blackmailers, workstreams, in the first version, a number of focal points, a number of focus points for further rolling out the various elements of the Belgian long-term strategy in dialogue with all stakeholders, i.e. all levels of policy as well as all other actors in society. The Brexit. I can't really say much about that. I do not think that the role of the United Kingdom as Chairman of COP 26 is negatively affected by the Brexit. On the contrary, I think that the UK sees COP 26 as one of the forums where it can continue to profile itself as a constructive multilateral partner. I think this is indeed the intention of the British Government. In terms of the relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union. In the past, we have had presidencies of COPs, such as Paris, for example, by Member States of the European Union. I would like to take France as an example, because France, in its relationship with the European Union when it came to international climate negotiations, was a little redefined. They distanced themselves from their role as Member States that contributed to the determination of their positions in order to be able to play their full role as independent President. I think we might be able to make that comparison. So I do not really fear the negative consequences of the Brexit on that particular role of the United Kingdom and the European Union in the negotiations. It remains possible, but no decisions have yet been taken, that the UK would continue to be invited as an observer within the context of the Council of the European Union on European positions at the international level within the various fora where consultations are held at European level. That is a theoretical possibility which is allowed by the Brexit agreements, but which I do not know if any decisions have already been taken. I don't think so. Ms. Hanus, you asked me about innovative energies in the context of COP 26. Why are these issues not addressed during the COPs? The reason is that it's a bit out of scope, even if the link is obvious. It is certain that energy innovation, thanks to the use of technologies we have known for years, is necessary for the climate regime to succeed. However, at the international level of realpolitik, we do not talk about it. Rather, it is about technology transfer, policy and measures, without any particular technology being addressed. That wouldn't be accepted. I remember a proposal to discuss one technique or the other. One Member State of the United Nations, which gives a great deal of interest to another – not to mention oil – opposed it. The opening of such a debate is even impossible, since the decision must be taken by consensus. In short, the COP is not the right forum to discuss directly the development and promotion of a particular technology. There are, however, other multilateral assemblies that are very well placed to address the issue of renewable energy. I am thinking of the International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) and the International Energy Agency (IEA). Mr Ravyts, you asked me a question about the Just Transition Fund and whether at the end of February the Commission will identify the regions that could benefit from the Just Transition Fund. I cannot give you any more information about this at the moment. I don't have it myself. I will use your question as a reason, Mr President, to point out that many of the things I have mentioned are outside my comfort zone as a climate official. This is, of course, inevitable, because it is also about very specialised and very different policy areas. In order to get a very clear answer to such questions it might be useful to hear other experts too, because I fear that I myself will have to fail somewhat. It is true that the Commission will come forward with this proposal very soon. Since the success of the Just Transition Mechanism is a prerequisite for the success of the wider package, we can expect that. You also referred to the objective in the Flemish long-term strategy to reduce emissions by 85% by 2050. If I have understood correctly, it is 85% in those sectors outside the emissions trading system. If I can remember the texts correctly, the objective will also be accompanied by a commitment to climate neutrality, without being much more precise. Thus, an opening has been read to the letter "to a further evolution," but it is entirely up to the Flemish government to decide. Mr De Maegd, you asked me questions that are a little out of my comfort zone. I know the initiatives you mentioned and I realize the important role Belgium plays in this context, but there are other colleagues in our administration, including the Marine Environment Service and the Special Envoy for the Oceans, who are much better placed to answer you. I can put you in touch with them. One of your questions was about section 6 to see if the lines had moved. Not to my knowledge. Some countries are seeking compromises, but the first negotiating session would not take place until June. Formally, nothing has moved but we continue to discuss informally. As far as my view of the Belgian-Belgian decision-making process is concerned, I am obviously not going to give you my opinion. I will refer to a process that Saint-Louis University has organized since 2018, which is supported by our administration, on climate governance in Belgium. This process took the form of a series of academic debates and seminars on both sides of the linguistic border, with observers from different administrations and international guests, and was followed by a conference with a political component. Not a lot of your colleagues have been involved. If you want more information on this topic, I suggest you consult the section "Climate governance" on our website climate.be. Mr Tobback, I think it is a very interesting comparison, but I have to say to you for the time being that I was still rather young at the time, and I will try to find out for myself, and I may be able to provide you with this information later. Mr Desquesnes, your first question was about a more equitable attitude in the head of developing countries – I suppose – and an attitude that you call climatosceptic in some. I will not call climatesceptics one country or the other. But let us look, for example, at the behaviour of the Like-Minded Group of Developing Countries, which I have mentioned several times. It is composed of major emerging countries, such as China and India, which are important members. Saudi Arabia is another dominant member of this group; it did not want to recognize the IPCC conclusions at COP 24. I don't know if it was by thinking about these countries that you referred to climate-sceptic attitudes. In the negotiations, there are different origins in the same positions, sometimes within the same group. Countries belonging to the Like-Minded Group of Developing Countries are trying to keep as far as possible the distinction between developed and developing countries, for various reasons. The poorest member countries in this group fear that their obligations will cost them too much. The richest member countries fear that their obligations may limit their economic growth in one way or another. And then there are the countries that, to a very large extent, are still dependent on what will one day become the old fossil economy. I did not understand your question about how to combine the EU carbon trading system (CET) with other policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u25	Today, commitments made at the level of the Regions, which include all reductions, must be compared with a ETS system that has its own logic and speed. If we want to move faster at the level of some non-ETS sectors, how can we combine the speed set at European level for the sectors covered by the ETS and the other sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u26	I think I understand your question better. Bonds for the sectors covered by the ETS are inevitably covered at European level since the market is European. This does not mean that national authorities cannot do so in these sectors. When, for example, I was talking about the new industrial strategy announced by the Commission in the context of the Green Deal, there are competences at national and, in our country, at regional level, which can very well complement what the Commission is going to tell us at European level. This strategy is likely to focus on a number of sectors covered by the ETS. These are the most emitting sectors; if we want an industrial strategy that contributes to climate neutrality, it is inevitable. National authorities can act in these sectors too, by promoting renovation, by bringing together different industries in homogeneous groups which can complement each other in a context of circular economy, etc. There is certainly a link between the two groups of sectors. For sectors not covered by the ETS, Member States are legally responsible for achieving the objectives. This does not mean that it is the Member States alone that have to pursue a policy to reach them. There is also a European policy. In the building sector, it will be reinforced. In the transportation sector, standards for cars, for example, contribute to the achievement of national, and partly regional, objectives in our country. It is also true that member countries and, within Belgium, federated entities, have expressed objectives that cover both sectors. On the one hand, it makes things more complicated, because there are more levers to manage, but on the other hand, it allows, I suppose, to develop a holistic vision of the economy in the territory. As you know, the distinction between the sector covered by the ETS and the non-ETS sector is not a distinction on the basis of economic homogeneity. In this sense, I would say that we can see the logic of dealing with the two major sectors in a whole. The map of Europe I posted shows the countries that, in New York on 23 September last year, announced that their ambitions for 2030 would be strengthened in their national plans. Belgium is not one of these countries; very simply because the competent authorities in our country (the Federal State and the three Regions) could not agree to join this Alliance. Mrs Nagy, you mentioned the need for a coherent strategy in the context of the long-term strategy, I suppose. The question of "how" is political and very strongly linked to the discussion on governance, as Mr. From Maegd. I should not remind you of the pre-election discussions on the special climate law and the amendment to the Constitution, which also dealt in part with this issue. I can suggest that you read the conclusions of the process that was organized on this climate governance. The President had also mentioned climate governance on one of the topics, with a view to interparliamentary consultation. If I can have an opinion, I would say that it is a very good idea to continue this discussion on how to better organize climate policy in our country. This is a good idea because the constraints are getting bigger and bigger. We are moving towards carbon neutrality in 2050. We are no longer talking about environmental policy, or climate policy, we are talking about a transformation of the economy as a whole. If we want a discussion on how to make a strategy that leads to these transformations coherent, we must be able to put together all the skills that, in one way or another, can affect this subject. It's a fairly analytical observation that I can easily make. I spoke about the principles of San José but I was not very clear. These principles do not relate to the level of ambition itself, but to principles that are necessary to ensure that carbon market rules do not form a loophole for the level of ambition. It was strictly in the context of the carbon market that Belgium was able to associate. To be absolutely clear, it has done so for environmental integrity reasons and for the level playing field for European companies in this international carbon market. In the trade agreements, you mentioned Mercosur and Brazil, in this context. It is very far from what I am very close to, but I can tell you that the same question was asked by Mr Vandenberghe in Mrs von der Leyen's office during the dialogue to which I referred. He said that it was thanks to this clause in the Mercosur agreement that Brazil was kept in the Paris Agreement. It's his analysis. I can't validate it. I would like to inform you that this is the analysis of Mrs von der Leyen's office. Mr Bothuyne, you had a question about the EUR 68 million that Belgium would receive from the Just Transition Fund. It is difficult for me to comment on its legality. I have seen the Commission's analysis and it has based itself on the regions which, on the one hand, are largely dependent on coal and also peat in the case of Ireland and, on the other hand, on carbon-intensive industries. I do not know if that makes a difference, but perhaps the energy-intensive industries in Belgium are often electro-intensive but not necessarily carbon-intensive. That could be part of the explanation, but that's just an assumption of mine, I'm not a specialist in those matters. With regard to the monitoring of the EUR 1,000 billion, I have to stay a little on the level. All the instruments that the European Union has, such as the European Semester, will be used for this purpose. However, I cannot give you a list of exactly how this will happen. However, I am sure that the European Semester will have the implementation of the Green Deal as an important focus, to a greater extent than in the past, on energy, climate and transport. With regard to Mr. Nemes' remarks on the influence of multinational companies and their blocking of COP 25, I am not going to provide any confirmation. If companies or stakeholders influence the negotiating process, even if all these stakeholders, and that is a good thing, are present at the COP and communicate with negotiators, I do not believe that the negotiators' positions are influenced by these contacts. On the other hand, the national positions that a government can take are also influenced by the interests of certain actors. I will not deny that certain positions are influenced by certain economic interests. I will not go beyond that. As to whether there is a risk that the same will happen at COP 26 as at COP 25, I would answer in the affirmative. If we talk about the international process, I do not believe that the problem is as serious as it is to be feared that at COP 26 the same thing will happen as at COP 25. As far as the carbon market is concerned, in your opinion, it would be better to impose standards. It depends on what standards you're talking about. There are standards at different levels. The Kyoto Protocol, for example, required national standards in combination with a market and product standards. This has more to do with political implementation. The issue of standards needs to be clarified. If this is the fundamental question of whether or not the carbon market can be used to solve the problem, then the Paris Agreement is what it is. Article 6 contains two market mechanisms and an approach non-market mechanism which are more involved in the development of non-market-based cooperation. This is the Paris compromise, which is essential except for the amendment: working on this carbon market. But to the extent that this carbon market can have negative effects on the level of ambition and on sustainable development, we will have to keep an eye on it and I hope I have been quite clear about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u27	Thank you, Mr Wittoeck. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we organise a second round if this is necessary. In this way we will be able to look at the arrangements at 1.30 p.m. at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u28	Thank you, Mr Witttoeck, for your answers. I would like to dwell on one point, in particular the Just Transition Fund and the Just Transition Mechanism. I would like to read out what has appeared in a European press article on this subject. Ik quote: "Agreement to the Commission the allocation method is based on economic (greenhouse gas emissions) production of peat, production of oil shale, social criteria, employment in coal and carbon intensive regions, and the GNI per capita." In this way the basic problem is raised and those are the questions that Mr Tobback has asked. We have closed coal mines, both in Flanders and Wallonia, largely with our own resources. We have developed a petrochemical around the port of Antwerp. With our own resources, we have ensured that it is the most efficient petrochemical cluster of at least Europe and perhaps even the world. We are less carbon intensive than the other regions because we are energy efficient. We have indeed closed the coal mines. Yet, when you look at your table, you can see that Germany is number two when it comes to getting money out of that pot. I don't think they have a problem with the GTP. If they have a problem with emissions because of their coal plants, then I certainly have a problem with that because we have largely financed the closure of our own coal plants and they are not, while they are our biggest competitor but are getting the most out of the pot. The last six months have been Finland's president. Where was the most peat? In Finland. Who's the second half of this year's president? Germany. Then France. Can I expect a climate official like you to represent us all, all the political parties together, from left to right, and also to send the message bottom-up and not top-down in the Green Deal to the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u29	Mr President, I am a member of the Brussels Parliament. Mr Wittoeck, thank you for the explanations received. My first question concerns the Fair Transition Fund which is part of the New Deal and which provides EUR 68 million for Belgium, with potential leverage, using all the pillars, up to EUR 1 billion. I would like to know how the distribution of these funds and coordination will be made among the entities of the country. In particular, will this distribution be commensurate with the efforts undertaken by each of these entities? My second question concerns the renewal of national contributions to greenhouse gas reduction targets. Ten Member States have already accepted the new 2030 target of minus 55% and the 2050 carbon-neutral target. However, while I understand your presentation and your slides, Belgium is not one of them, while some Regions have embarked on this path. My colleague Tinne Van der Straeten mentioned the nuances between our different regions but, despite these disparities, it is clear to us that Belgium must be part of the leading platoon. What is lacking in our country to join the group of responsible and ambitious States? Where are the blockages? Ladies and gentlemen, can we together remove these obstacles at the level of our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u30	Mr President, I wish to clarify my previous statement. While the COP does not have special powers in energy matters, we have, through our Minister, supported the holding of a debate on energy policy that can be conducted at the international level. I think we have to do it. Mr President, I hope that the speeches will be short so that we have time to look at the order of business.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u31	Mr Witttoeck, I have to ask the same question as my colleague from Ecolo-Groen just now with regard to the procedure concerning the intra-Belgian transition fund. You have not been able to answer that immediately. I am not asking you for a value judgment, but how will that work, purely procedurally? Is that asking for a new political consultation? I must also join my colleagues from N-VA. They're talking about transfers from the transition fund to the east. They have thus made a rather political but justified remark.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u32	Thank you, Mr Witttoeck, for your answers. In the meantime, you have understood that various parties in various hemispheres are asking questions about the way the Just Transition Fund is composed and, above all, about the amount allocated to our country. I think that this should be discussed further. If we want support for the Green Deal, Europe will also have to take account of the efforts made in the past. The question is how this can be done. Another element that you did not mention just now concerns the impact assessments that may be prepared by the European Commission in the context of the allocation and definition of the 2030 targets, which is very important for our country and for our economy. So I would like to get some additional explanations on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u33	Mr President, I would like to come back to a question which I have not had an answer to and which concerns the easing of the Green Deal. Mr Wittoeck, I do not think you have answered this question. On the other hand, I have heard your answer on the ETS and non-ETS sectors. It appears that not all regions of the country have made commitments including ETS. Is that it? Could you explain the position of each of the regions in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u34	Mr President, I agree with the fact that I have not received an answer as to the easing of standards. Mr Wittoeck, in your answer, you point out that this is a transformation of the economy as a whole, which requires the mobilisation of funds at European level with counterparts and, to take the case of Belgium, with extremely tenuous budgetary situations. What about getting out of the mandatory budget standard for investments that would be made in the context of energy savings? Is that something we're discussing? Finally, how does Belgium prepare its position for COP 26?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u35	First of all, I should like to apologise to the last speakers for overlooking some of their questions. The relaxation of budgets, the greening of the budget, is certainly one of the elements provided by the Green Deal to enable the financing of all necessary investments. I cannot anticipate exactly how that will work. The Commission will continue to ensure that the relaxation, the adaptation of European budget rules, the objectives of the Growth and Stability Pact are not jeopardised. The European Commission therefore recognises that public authorities in the Member States may invest more in order to achieve the Green Deal. Mr Bothuyne, I am sorry, but I also forgot your question about the impact assessment for the 2030 targets. I am afraid that there is very little clarity about this at the moment. There is a lot of running in many different places and I do not have all the information. I do not think there is much information to share about the impact assessment either. The European Commission will indeed make an impact assessment of the 50/55 % targets. Although I do not know whether it will be the case now, we have seen in the past that, before any proposals are made, there is a dialogue at expert level on, among other things, projections. I do not exclude that this will happen now, but I cannot confirm now that it is the intention of the European Commission. Mr President, if I am allowed to do so, I am increasingly coming to the conclusion that many people other than myself are better invited here in committee to answer such questions. Mrs Parmentier, you asked a question about the distribution, among the entities, of the Belgian share in the Transition Fund. To my knowledge, nothing has yet been decided. However, a decision could have been made on this, as this kind of decision is taken in meetings involving climate specialists like me. For example, one of the channels dealing with the just transition fund at European level also deals with cohesion policy. This is a completely different channel than the one that normally deals with climate and environmental issues. I want to talk about the energy CCPE. Our country therefore also faces a challenge at the executive level, at the administrative level and at the diplomatic level, which must ensure that transparency between the various channels is effective and effective. If that were the case, it would allow someone else to answer the kind of questions you just asked me. I come to your question about the ten Member States that have subscribed to the Climate Ambition Alliance. To be clear, this does not mean that they have accepted 55% as a level of ambition. I know that a few years ago, in their government agreement, the Netherlands referred to 55%. I do not believe that all countries that intend to increase their level of ambition want to join an ambition level of 55 or 50 % or another percentage. As far as our country's position with regard to this coalition of Member States is concerned, I believe I have said what I could say. You know how decisions are taken on Belgium's positioning at international and European level. They are taken within the framework of a consensus between the competent authorities, i.e. the Federal State and the Regions. Mrs Hanus, I do not deny that an international discussion should take place on energy policy. However, this is difficult in the UNSCC context. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope I have not forgotten to answer some of the questions again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u36	Are there any unanswered questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u37	The question of the ETS and non-ETS sectors. It seems to me that in your reply you said that the Regions in Belgium do not all have the same organisation of counting their objectives. Some take into account STEs, and others visibly did not include STEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u38	Mr Desquesnes, if we read the long-term strategies of the three regions, we see that the Brussels-Capital Region and the Walloon Region have an objective that covers the economy as a whole (ETS and non-ETS sectors combined). As I believe I said in response to Mr Ravyts' question earlier, the Flemish Region has decided, in the context of its long-term strategy, to have as its objective a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of 85% in the non-ETS sectors; although I have read the Flemish Government's strategy and decision in this context, complementing, as I did earlier, the general desire to nevertheless move towards climate neutrality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u39	Mr Wittoeck, that's right. However, I would also like to point out that, in my opinion, Europe has not asked for a plan for non-ETS and ETS together by 2050. Europe is asking for a non-ETS, because ETS normally happens at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u40	Mr President, I would like to clarify this point. I do not think that the regulation on energy union governance is specific in that sense. The Energy Union Governance Regulation calls for a long-term strategy with prospects for 2050 and even 2070, if I am not mistaken. Nor is it specifically and exclusively looked at one sector or another. The rules for long-term strategies are less detailed than for national energy and climate plans. Even this does not distinguish between ETS and non-ETS sectors, if only because it concerns national energy and climate policies and because energy policy partly covers the ETS sectors. This might explain why there could be a more general notion that long-term strategies should also cover sectors covered by the ETS. Everyone is, of course, entitled to his interpretation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-29-55-commissie-ic098x.u41	Mr Witttoeck, thank you, of course, for your presence, for your detailed speech and for your answers to the questions asked. I wish you every success in the further preparations that will undoubtedly be made.
