ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u1	On June 6, 2020, the super core decided that every Belgian resident would receive a free Rail Pass, with 10 train journeys to be used between July 1st and December 31st 2020. Apart from the instrument proposed, I welcome the encouragement of our citizens to re-use public transport for their journeys. To be honest, when it comes to public transport, everyone is talking about major health risks. This morning I took the train between Ghent and Brussels in full rush and I was just as far away from the people on the train as I am from you now. Since the day before yesterday, Minister, there are again full planes with tourists that are sitting close together for hours. So I don't understand what the big risk is with regard to the train. That being said, here is the debate about the fact that the CEO of SNCB, Sophie Dutordoir, fell proverbily from her chair day after the decision of the supercore. She said she didn't know anything and that she hadn't been consulted. Furthermore, she did not know how to do this and stressed that the measure raises very serious and essential questions, not least with regard to ensuring the necessary sanitary safety of passengers and staff. Last Monday, June 15, 2020, the board of directors came together and actually blew back the super core. In the short term, he is not happy to distribute mass free Rail Passes and has instructed the CEO to work out an agenda for further implementation in consultation with you, which is compatible with operational challenges and sanitary safety requirements. Colleagues, the question is, of course, how could such an important and far-reaching decision be taken without prior notice of the CEO, and even the supercore de facto whistle back. Mr Minister, is it true that the proposal to distribute free Rail Passes has not been the subject of any consultation with SNCB prior to the supercore? Why didn't that happen? When exactly has the government taken note of the proposal to distribute free Rail Passes? After all, time must have elapsed between the suggestion of the proposal and the decision to consult with the CEO. Do you agree with Mrs Dutordoir that the free Rail Passes are problematic for the health safety of travellers? If so, what will you do? Does the decision to distribute Rail Passes free of charge mean a switch after the advice to use the train only for non-essential movements? Is SNCB preparing for a greater influx of passengers? Does she take any additional measures to this end? What is the cost of the measure? How are the Rail Passes distributed and within what time frame? Finally, after the meeting of the board of directors the day before yesterday, have you had discussions with Mrs Sophie Dutordoir and received a concrete proposal from SNCB for the implementation of the supercore decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u2	Mr Minister, we have learned with satisfaction that the superkern of 6 June decided to grant a Rail Pass to all residents of Belgium. The objective is to support two sectors particularly affected by the VOCID-19 pandemic, namely tourism and horeca. It will also allow Belgians to aerate their body and mind after two months of confinement. We are all the more pleased that public transport is the chosen vehicle. Our citizens are encouraged to use a sustainable mode of transport which they can sometimes ignore all the advantages. This choice contributes to the modal shift that our country so much needs. While the principle has been agreed by the superkern, the funding and implementation arrangements have not been communicated. For the Socialist Group, such a measure must be the responsibility of the supervisory authority. The SNCB and the railway workers who in recent years have had to make a great deal of effort to cope with the budget cuts must now take on the significant loss of profits due to the pandemic. To charge SNCB for the granting of a Rail Pass to all Belgian residents seems inadequate when one knows the challenges and investments that the public company must take in order to achieve sustainable mobility. As far as implementation is concerned, the health efforts that all Belgians and railway workers have made in recent months must not be undermined by a massive and sudden influx of passengers into trains. We are also thinking of the control of the transport tickets by the attendants who, at the time of writing these lines, have not yet taken over. Will the cost of granting the Rail Pass actually be borne by the supervisory authority and not by SNCB? Will the tickets offered be nominative to avoid some form of cannibalization of SNCB's revenues? Will the title be granted to citizens on a gradual basis by starting with target groups or will it be accessible to all at the same time? How can we avoid the massive influx of travellers that would undermine health recommendations? How can transport tickets be checked without exposing attendants to too high a risk?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u3	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the situation has already been explained in detail, so I shall confine myself to a number of reservations and questions. I myself was surprised by the measure taken by the supercore on Saturday 6 June, but I immediately embraced it. I thought it would be a good idea to give public transport an extra push in these difficult times. Also for domestic tourism and catering, I found it a good incentive that doesn't have to cost much, because there is still room on the trains today. It could therefore be a win-win situation for several partners, including for SNCB. My surprise was therefore great when one day later it appeared that SNCB had not been consulted on this issue. I actually thought that was a shocking observation, because with such an attitude, politics actually goes back to the period before 1991, the period prior to the Act on Autonomous Public Enterprises, when SNCB was actually an instrument of politics for all kinds of wishes. We should not allow that to happen. A very important question is therefore to what extent this has been agreed with SNCB. How far does SNCB's autonomy extend to decisions on such measures? This should be the subject of a clear statement. Last Friday there was again a super core and afterwards it appeared that SNCB was once again unaware of any adjustments. That defies any imagination. My second set of questions concerns the way in which the measure will be implemented. I understand yesterday that the measure will have to be implemented. I read that this will have to be done by post and on paper, while such an initiative should be a lever to familiarise non-users of public transport with the train and with the possibilities offered by the MoBIB card. A threshold could be built in. One could install a brake to avoid a rush on the tickets by asking for a MoBIB card. That could be a piste. That would also be a much more convenient way to apply for those ten rides. This can then be done completely digitally and then it does not need to be requested in writing and not sent by post. That seemed like a good way to work. This would also be interesting for SNCB, as they would have more electronic data through the digital applications of the MoBIB cards. Of course, there must be compensation for people who cannot, but this would have been a good way of working. Why the choice to work with paper passes? Weren't there any alternatives here? Whatever happens to minus 25-year-olds? In principle, they are entitled to a cheaper version. They could use the Go Pass or the Youth Multi, the new name. Will they be entitled to that, or is it Rail Passes?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u4	Minister, I also have a number of questions about the Rail Passes that will be given. The GEES reports I have read do not recommend using public transport for non-essential movements in the context of the COOVID-19 crisis. With regard to public health, why, contrary to the GEES report, has it been chosen to promote public transport? What precautions are provided for? I am thinking in particular of the times when we expect many people to travel towards the coast or the Ardennes. How will we guarantee social distancing? Will there be checks on wearing mouth masks? What's your plan in that regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u5	Mr President, Minister, the Ecolo-Groen Group welcomes the concrete progress of this project, which will help to restore public confidence in public transport. In this period of definity, it is indeed essential to put on the table a proposal which will enable citizens to be brought back on the trains, because the rate of traffic is now painfully oscillated between 10 and 20 %. We see that in China, for example, the situation is catastrophic: the number of passenger cars is exploding while public transport remains deserted. This is therefore a mobility problem, and we cannot afford this kind of trend in our country, which has already experienced excessive congestion. The above situation is also problematic in terms of air quality and climate objectives. I was able to read in the press the first concrete progress of the project, but I have a few clarifications to ask about its implementation. Thus, the Rail Pass will have to be ordered online. Do you have a solution for people who do not have access to the Internet? Similarly, the Rail Pass would not be available until 31 July. Is an extension of their validity date envisaged? On the basis of which register will they be distributed? I read that the Rail Pass will be offered to children over the age of 12. Free access is available only to children under 12 years of age. It will therefore be important to ensure that children under the age of 12 are also entitled to the Rail Pass. Could you consider conducting a mobility survey during the Rail Pass distribution process? The IT bidder could thus submit a questionnaire to those wishing to reply, which would provide information on Belgian mobility patterns and on the obstacles to sustainable mobility. In my opinion, the people who say that the Rail Pass will cost 83 euros per beneficiary are wrong, because the idea is to bring citizens back on the trains and encourage them, in the long run, to change their habits. Thus, the Rail Pass can be synonymous with a futures gain for SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u6	Mr President, Minister, let me say that as an ecologist, I am very pleased that on 6 June, with the support of 10 parties, the super core promised its support to SNCB. The sector had to lose EUR 400 million in recent months. In difficult circumstances, the sector has ensured that trains continue to run. The sector can help to ensure that congestion does not increase and that we avoid peaks in air pollution. The sector can help boost domestic tourism. However, if we want to support this sector, we will have to give people confidence again. Then we will have to get the people back on the train. It is indeed very important for both train drivers and passengers that this can be done in safe conditions. That is why it is a pity that after years of savings such a positive measure was not taken in consultation with the railway company. However, I understand from the press that yesterday there was another consultation with SNCB on the precise implementation of this measure. That's why I have the following questions for you. How do you see the logistical distribution of these multi-way passes? I understand that they will have to apply online. Is that right? Will you therefore ensure that this will be accessible and accessible to people who are less able to handle the computer or who do not have a computer? It cannot, of course, be the intention that SNCB should be hunted for additional costs. It is already suffering financially from the corona measures. Does the Government undertake to bear the costs of this measure? In what way can SNCB avoid large crowds on trains? What measures will be examined and developed to this end?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u7	Mr President, Minister, in principle we are also in favour of promoting public transport. We are also in principle in favour of ensuring that people can use public transport free of charge. But we do not agree at all with the way in which this has happened. As my fellow Members have already said, the fact that this has not been discussed with the management of SNCB, the fact that this has not been discussed with the social partners, is unheard of. A blow to the face of those many workers who have worked day after day in this difficult period of corona. The fact that there will be no additional costs is an illusion. SNCB itself says that there will be an additional cost of EUR 100 million. The question will, of course, be who will pay those costs. Hence my questions, Minister. How did that decision come about in the supercore? What exactly was this decision based on? Were we aware of the costs at that time? What were the arguments for introducing this measure? Do you yourself understand that there is a great deal of displeasure, both in management and in the social partners, which are not at all involved? Are these measures not endangering the health of SNCB workers and travellers? That is the concern I have with the staff. What measures will you take to ensure that this can be done safely? How much will the free Rail Passes the SNCB cost if each Belgian applies for it? Will SNCB be compensated for this? If so, how?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u8	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the problem has already been described in great detail. So I shall confine myself to my questions. I support this positive measure, but at the same time I think it must be done safely. Mr Minister, can you give us any more details on how the measure is being worked out? In the meantime, we have heard that the Board of Directors reports that it will not be possible to implement it in this form. You say, however, that the ten-way ticket must be there. In the meantime, is there any more insight into when the decision of the core can be implemented? From when can the bike be on the train for free? What were the comments made by SNCB on the proposal? What additional conditions does SNCB consider necessary to ensure safety on trains? What decisions will you take or will SNCB make to ensure that trains run safely, both for staff and for passengers? Will there be conditions at the Rail Pass and taking the bike with you on the train? For example, can this only be done outside the rush hour? In addition, the cost of the measure is also an important factor. Who's gonna take the cost? How is the measure financed? In order to change our mobility behaviour in a structural way, we obviously need more than a one-off offer of free public transport. What accompanying actions will you take in response to the decisions taken by the super core to make sustainable travel by train structural?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u9	Mr President, Minister, on a proposal from Mr van Groen, the super core has decided to hand out a number of millions of free train tickets, assuming that it would cost nothing. Not only does it cost something, it says common sense, but yesterday also the Minister for the Budget, Mr Clarinval, who estimated the loss of income at EUR 110 million. Mr Minister, can you confirm that SNCB also estimates a loss of revenue from that order of magnitude? What do you think of that? I'm curious to see your position as a custody minister. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I am surprised at the position taken by some groups here. In particular, colleagues on my literal and figurative left are in favour of the continuation of the measure, which we have now learned does not only have a high cost, but also presents health risks according to the GEES report. Missing is human. It's equally human to acknowledge a mistake. It would be a good thing for colleagues, particularly those from Green, to change their position accordingly as we have more insight into the impact of this measure. I am surprised that the opposite is happening here. Colleagues, with EUR 110 million, we can do some other business. If we know that SNCB is already looking at a loss of income of EUR 70 million a month due to the corona crisis, then that is not nothing. If we know that electrification of two Limburg railway lines together costs less than this measure, the distribution of free tickets for the duration of one summer, then I think it is a shame that we should continue with this plan. For EUR 110 million, we can electrify one of the remaining diesel lines and then we have money left. And that would have a positive impact, not for the duration of a single summer but for the coming years and decades. That would have been an environmentally and climate-friendly proposal. I regret that the sintering-clay policy is pre-eminent. That's too bad. It is not your fault, Minister, that the super-core has decided on this. That's a level higher. Of course, it is your responsibility to develop it. When we see that the board of directors itself is questioning that measure, I am surprised that your cabinet is firmly blocking it in the media. I quote your spokesman in De Tijd: "The decision has been made by the supercore and must be carried out. Point." Mr. Secretary, will you stick to this brutal refusal? If you simply want to push through that top-down, I do not think that this is only irresponsible as an administrative measure in itself. In addition, you are also in conflict with the 1991 law on public undertakings, which clearly states that the product range and pricing must be determined by means of the management contract. The management contract itself also leaves no doubt that SNCB must determine the range, nature and price level. If, in those circumstances, you say that there will be no consultation about the measure itself and that it should simply happen, you will not only conflict with the autonomy of the public sector but also with the law that is the cornerstone of the organisation of our entire rail landscape. That would be unheard of, wouldn't it? Minister, how do you reconcile this with the legislation? I hope that this is a mistake, as was the case with the Greens, but that, unlike them, you are choosing to adjust and that you are going for consultation, as common sense and law dictates.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be very long, which may disappoint you, but I will explain why later. I would remind you that the superkern, in other words the leaders of the ten parties, whose members of seven of these parties interviewed me here, agreed. I hope that party presidents are aware of the decisions they make, especially in the context of the health crisis. You will have understood that it is a question of balance, at all levels. The superkern therefore decided, at its meeting on 6 June, to grant a Rail Pass or ten free trips to residents in Belgium. I'm not a member of the supercore. Indeed, I and SNCB were not informed in advance. It must be admitted that this non-coordinated decision, if it is a good idea, has raised and still raises a great deal of problems in its implementation. It would have been preferable for party representatives at the instigation of this measure to have consulted the SNCB before proposing to implement it without taking into account the reality on the ground. My door is always open to allow constructive exchanges between the political world and the railways. The SNCB Board of Directors, composed of representatives of the same political groups, welcomed the superkern's willingness to support and promote the use of public transport. But this Board of Directors decided that this decision could not be implemented as proposed and mandated the Management Committee to define, in close cooperation with its shareholder, through me, modalities and a timetable for the implementation of the pass compatible with the health and operational requirements in order to reach a concerted proposal ensuring the health safety of transport operators and passengers. Immediately, it became apparent that these transport documents had to be submitted on demand in order for everyone to be able to access them, whether by digital means or by means of another solution for those who did not have access to them. All persons who are in the conditions to obtain the ticket must be able to receive it. Secondly, this title must be nominative. Otherwise, there will be a form of cannibalization compared to other products. Finally, this title will have to be controlled like any other transport ticket – Go Pass, Rail Pass, etc. We may give it another name than Rail Pass, knowing that it has a cost of 83 euros for ten tickets and that the Go Pass has another price for another audience. Following the decision of the Board of Directors of SNCB, a consultation took place on Tuesday, 16 June. It has been constructive, but it has not yet been completed. SNCB has made a new proposal to address its concerns that will soon be proposed to superkern members to ensure that it adequately responds to the decision taken on June 6, both in terms of health, operational, funding and objectives. I assume you will not have escaped yesterday that the Budget Minister said that he had set aside a sum in the VOCID-19 package. It is obvious that a comprehensive dossier will be included in the VOCID-19 measures which will cover not only this but also the "deficits" or in any case the non-revenues which the SNCB has recorded since the beginning of the confinement. In summary, a proposal is currently being analysed with a view to being finalised on the basis of all the criteria adopted and with all necessary precautions, first of all health precautions, but also in order to achieve the objectives in accordance with the superkern's choice to offer free transport tickets in the coming months. I cannot tell you more until the proposal which has been put on the table and which is still being analysed on all these aspects is finalized, but the decision will have to be taken quickly if it is to be implemented. I have already stated this on several occasions: technical, operational, legal measures, compliance with public procurement and other rules – because they will call on an external operator for at least two of the tasks to be carried out – makes it impossible to implement this in two weeks. As soon as possible, but it is important to know that all other measures will of course have to be validated at the same time. As soon as the proposal is there, a tour of all the Ten will be organized to ask them if they still have any objections to the draft as drafted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u11	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I find it rather easy to play the ball to the parties in the supercore, which could have supposedly consulted SNCB. If I am well informed, the fact sheet with that proposal on Wednesday, three days before the supercore, ended up at the office of Prime Minister Wilmès. They knew well enough that the proposal would be discussed on Saturday. I find it incomprehensible that neither you nor SNCB were informed of that proposal in those three days before the super-core. What do we need custody ministers for if they are not informed about a proposal that would come on the table so that they can talk to the company they have custody of? However, that is not the essence of the story. I hope it doesn't happen again. I think it is more important that a new proposal has been made by Mrs Dutordoir, in consultation with you. I understand that you do not want to say much about this, except that it may take a little longer before the decision of the super-core can be carried out. However, I am counting on an opportunity to offer all Belgians an effective opportunity to take the train free of charge, taking into account the concerns of the Board of Directors. It is one of two things, Mr Roggeman. On the one hand, you complain about the operational loss of revenue of SNCB, because no one is on the train, and on the other hand you are concerned about a decision to encourage people to take the train, with free train journeys, indeed. Those free train journeys will hopefully make people realize that the train is not only a perfect and healthy alternative for the car to travel during the validity period of the free Rail Pass but also afterwards. It's an investment in future train users. I find it no longer explainable that people continue to say that taking public transport entails major sanitary risks, at a time when airplanes have been leaving Zaventem for two days with people sitting in the same room for hours at a time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u12	Minister, it is true that the Socialist Party, which participates with other parties in the superkern, has supported this measure. Of course, concerned about the well-being of commuters and rail workers, we will not fail to follow carefully the information that will be disclosed by your services regarding the implementation of this particular measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u13	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the answer. We are, of course, looking forward to the solution that might have been devised with SNCB. It is good that a joint solution will be put forward. That's very necessary. I have some reactions. I am still concerned about the purity of the relationship between the autonomous State of SNCB and the government. The way in which this autonomy has been handled here is vengeful, and then I softly express myself. This is not the way it should have happened. I may understand that this was the case at the first super-Minister's Council, with the many proposals put forward the previous Wednesday, so two days before the Super-Minister's Council, the proposals had to be in by 5 p.m. on Wednesday. I find it unimaginable that the amendment to the proposal was not discussed at a second Super-Minister's Council either. You refer to the Governing Board as an administrative body in which directors of the same political parties sit. I don't think that's a good idea for that board of directors. Those directors are primarily in the interest of the railway undertaking and not in the interest of the political or political party with which they may have a connection or which has proposed to them that they should be on that board of directors. I do not think that is the right way to approach that autonomous public sector. As far as the Rail Pass itself is concerned, I maintain that this could be a useful measure to stimulate domestic travel, domestic consumption and recreation and to re-enhancing the number of rail passengers. According to the latest data, the figure is about 20%. I feel that it is a bit higher in the last few days, but that push to get extra passengers to the train is useful and necessary. However, I think it should be done in a more commercially interesting way, rather than sending that Pass by post. Some thresholds could be built in to ensure that 10 million people do not take the train at the same time. This could be done by working more digitally and electronically instead of using a paper card. There are apps. Today there are Mobility as a Service apps on which you can digitally set up a multipass or a ten-way ticket. In the case of SNCB, that is not possible, which I find rather strange. It is possible to place SNCB journeys on a digital card of an external player, but not on the cards of the SNCB itself. It seems to me to be a small effort, and it is also the right time and reason to do so now as a result of this measure. It could also be an enormous lever to stimulate the use of the MoBIB card if it was imposed as a condition for using those ten journeys. It would be a win-win situation for everyone, so I think this could be a good piste. We look forward to the proposal that was worked out by you yesterday. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers. As parties that support the proposal, it is our right to ask questions, since we are not around the negotiating table with SNCB. Of course, we support your approach, but our willingness to obtain practical information on the course of operations is entirely legitimate. I did not hear any of the party colleagues in the superkern criticizing the measure. On the contrary, I see a desire to get information and to know the way things are going. Nevertheless, I am surprised to hear some colleagues openly criticise the measure. Of course, consultation has not been optimal and would have required prior contact with SNCB. Contacts have now been established and we cannot proceed otherwise. So, despite a somewhat chaotic beginning, we can only rejoice to see the situation evolve in the right direction today. I am also surprised to hear that there is concern about the health aspects of trains. Needless to say, barrier actions must remain in place, and users are well aware of them. This respect for the rules within the SNCB impresses me, but I am also shocked to see that the trains remain empty. This is a worrying situation. What are we going to do to address this problem? In order to achieve our climate goals, we are expected to increase passenger capacity compared to the pre-crisis situation. Here we are running for disaster! This train desertion represents a considerable cost to SNCB. Of course, it is normal for trains to remain empty during the crisis, but if they remain empty in the coming months, I really don't know what we're going to do. As far as funding is concerned, I believe that this initiative is a first support measure, which finally allows us to talk about rail transport in a positive way. Throughout the crisis, rail was indeed the forgotten sector, unlike shopping malls or sports halls. Its use has been recommended for essential travel. Today, we will have to start living again without taking back our bad habits such as using the car for all our travels. We will therefore of course support any future measures aimed at providing financial support to SNCB, as this support will not be sufficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Mr Roggeman, let us be quite clear: this was not a mistake! This is a positive measure for public transport. A number of colleagues have already said that this measure was already on the government's table on Wednesday. All parties have been able to think about this and your party has also given permission to do so during the supercore. This is a positive measure that can restore people's confidence in the train. We can ensure that people who may not yet know the train get to know them and use them more often in the future. When I hear the Minister say that there has been another consultation with SNCB, that is good. This must be done in a safe and healthy way. Can we please stop scaring people about public transport? I really hope from the bottom of my heart that we won't do that anymore. If parties continue to say that we should avoid public transport today, I would also like to hear them when it comes to the lack of safety measures on aircraft. I would therefore like to hear them say that the aircraft must remain on the ground. Those two sizes and two weights aren't gonna be explained anyway. Let's make sure it can be done in a safe and healthy way. Let us ensure that we can implement the measure and that we can also lead people in poverty to this measure, so that the train becomes the logical choice for the commuter again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u16	Firstly, I find it unbelievable in what undemocratic way all this has gone on in the supercore, with ten parties arguing with each other now. That says a lot to me about how decisions are made. Secondly, for this measure, we want to see, above all, that there are enough resources for SNCB, which is already underfunded. Additional resources will be needed for SNCB to further develop transport. Thirdly, when the Rail Pass gets there, we want this to be very accessible and applies to everyone, including those who are not easily on a computer and especially those who are in a weaker position.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u17	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. In any case, additional measures will be needed to ensure that public transport is safe, not only because of the decisions taken recently by the super-core but also in the long term, when the commuters will hopefully find their way back to the train. They also need additional measures. In the meantime, we have also asked questions about the way in which SNCB will allow trains to operate safely when the occupation rises again. After all, not the price of the Rail Pass but the safety and occupation on the train will determine how many people will want to take the train. Let us therefore put the debate to the fore. You have already made the suggestion to invite SNCB on the subject. I therefore hope that this hearing here in committee will be scheduled soon. Finally, I would like to refer to Mr Van den Bergh's comments on digitisation, on which I have already put forward a proposal. It seems very necessary to me to put the train on the tracks of digitalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u18	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we agree that it is a fine intention to convince more people to choose the train. However, I am asking whether these free train tickets are the most effective way of doing that. Convincing and sensitizing people can be done in many ways, many of which are cheaper. To begin with, we can already look at the train offer itself. Mr Vandenbroucke and Mrs Buyst openly question the concerns of the GEES. I'm told here that it's about scare-making. Unlike those Members, I will not question the conclusions of the report. I do not feel well placed for this, because I am not a virologist. I do believe that we should take the signal seriously. After all, so does the public. If we want to convince people to opt for the train, we would do better by addressing precisely those concerns and by taking measures that can strengthen and guarantee public health on public transport rather than waving away a few things and saying that it will not be so bad and refer to the aircraft. The case is a little more delicate than that. The decision of the supercore was also made on behalf of my party, the N-VA. We have done so in the belief that the proposers knew what they were talking about when they claimed that the measure would cost nothing. In the meantime, however, we have read that, unfortunately, this is not the case and that the measure will lead to a substantial cost and loss of revenue. Mrs Buyst, some of your fellow party members have certainly been mistaken. According to Mrs. Almaci, the measure didn't cost anything, because the trains still run. The Minister for the Budget is fundamentally opposed to this. Minister Bellot also pointed out that there is a risk of the sale of other products being cannibalised and that such a risk should be addressed. I now hear that a proposal would return to the super core that would respond to precisely those concerns regarding affordability and public health. Like you, Minister, I am not part of the super-core myself, but I am very curious about the result. If affordability and public health are not guaranteed, it would be a good thing for us politicians to show openness and recognise that this may not be the best idea and that there are other, more effective measures to convince people to opt for public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u19	In fact, the measure consisted of two parts: on the one hand the Rail Pass, on the other hand the free carriage of the bike on the train. It seems to me a particularly good idea to test the free taking of the bike on the train. It would be a good idea for SNCB to monitor its impact and see what it would mean in the long term if people could take their bikes for free on the train. The effect on the occupation of the train can be interesting to study. That's what I wanted to give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u20	Mr President, I do not understand why there is no topical debate around the airport. There are more than five questions and they're not all merged.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u21	The order of questions shall not be decided by the chairman of the committee. This is achieved in dialogue between the committee secretariat and the minister or his staff. I have no topical debate on this point. If everyone agrees to group together questions...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u22	Mr President, these questions concern different dossiers. If you want specific answers, then you have to group them around the same topic. Otherwise, the two minutes reserved for answers will be too short to answer fifteen different questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u23	Mr President, there is a link between Brussels Airlines and the airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u24	So far, we have not responded. In the last plenary, it was Minister De Croo who did so, since he is the one who is manoeuvring this issue. That's an example.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u25	We are not going to upset the order of business now. However, if the members of the committee agree to invite the two ministers to a forthcoming meeting for a topical debate on Brussels Airlines and the airport, that is not impossible. Other committees may be involved, but if enough questions are tabled here, we can organise a topical debate. I therefore propose that you place an order of business at the next meeting and discuss it. Then the committee will decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u26	Minister, SNCB has again offered a nearly complete train offer since Monday, May 4. But in order for users to travel safely and without risking contamination, the wearing of the mask is, as is well known, mandatory at stations and on docks, for anyone over the age of 12. Minister, you yourself announced in the press that checks would be carried out by the Railway Police (SPC) and Securail as part of the confinement, and that fines of EUR 250 could be imposed on potential violators. Therefore, my questions are as follows. In concrete terms, how are these controls organised? Are people who do not wear masks encouraged to leave the train at the next stop? Is entry on the train denied to them? What staff are required to carry out these checks and with what protection? This question is a bit old and I had adapted it somewhat. This is my second question, Minister. Some time ago, Infrabel's teams designed tools to combat VOCID-19 through artificial intelligence. These tools operate on a sensor system that both detects when too many people occupy the same space or when two people do not respect the safety distance. They also issue an audible warning if someone does not wear a mask or wears it badly. Infrabel would also have equipped itself with a hundred individual transmitters to be attached to a bracelet or helmet to signal in vibrating, flashing or emitting a sound signal that two technicians are too close to each other, for example on a construction site. These various VOCID-19 control tools are being tested at five pilot sites that are suitable for gathering. There are two of them in La Louvière. Therefore, Minister, my questions are as follows. How much did Infrabel cost the design of these tools? In practical terms, what is involved in the implementation of such a system for pilot stations in terms of installation? How did this happen? How is the protection of the privacy of railway workers ensured by these tools? After a trial period, have these tools proved their worth? Are they effective or should arrangements be made? Is it planned to install such a system on other sites and, if so, which ones? Does SNCB intend to introduce a similar system in trains and stations? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, during the period from 23 March to 4 May, the SNCB has made every effort to preserve in complete safety the mobility of people who must absolutely move, both in its stations and in its trains, in strict compliance with the health conditions in force imposed by the Government. Every effort has been made to continue to maintain a robust and stable supply of trains throughout Belgium. By early May, SNCB had already spent more than €3 million on protective equipment and cleaning products. All trains are completely disinfected every day and are cleaned a second time during the day. Hundreds of people are constantly cleaning buttons, handles and workspaces. All these hygiene actions and measures have been taken in consultation with safety and welfare specialists of SNCB following the recommendations of the SPF. Since 4 May, the offer of trains has been virtually complete again, with the exception of P trains. SNCB has observed a limited increase in the number of passengers, but thanks to the offer of trains and the maximum composition of them, social distancing can be respected without problems and does not currently require the introduction of new measures. Travellers are, however, always required, where possible, to travel outside rush hours. When train occupancy increases again, SNCB will review the commissioning of its P trains. SNCB follows daily the occupation of its spaces. If structural problems were to arise in order to ensure the necessary social distancing, measures would be immediately studied and put in place. Throughout the crisis, SNCB trains continued to drive and our attendants gave priority to their information and awareness-raising tasks. Securail's agents ensured maximum presence in the field to ensure security, but also to help control the possession of a transport document, which all travellers must be in possession of. As of 19 June, verification of the fact that passengers are in good possession of a transport document will resume on trains, accompanied by instructions for passengers and established in collaboration with the field (train attendants and prevention advisers). They will make it possible to carry out checks in complete health safety, for both travellers and staff. In addition to other health protection measures, no physical contact will take place during the verification of the transport document. Paper transport tickets will be visually controlled and digital transport tickets will be scanned. Payments in the case of a fare on board, for example, will be made only by bank contact. SNCB has many means, including digital ones, to purchase tickets before boarding trains. Remember that the mask has been mandatory since 4 May, whether for travellers or SNCB staff, to protect each other and continue to travel safely. In order to avoid any confusion, the figure of 70% of the infraction travellers I gave you at a last committee related to a specific check. In the meantime, SNCB has provided me with an overall figure and it shows that about 25% of travellers do not have a valid ticket. Regular on-the-spot checks are carried out by the police as well as by Securail. In the event of non-compliance with this measure provided for in the Ministerial Decree of 23 March 2020, the police may draw up a report on the basis of Article 187 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007. Securail may impose an administrative penalty on the basis of Article 3 of the Railway Police Act. In this respect, SNCB insists that the Securail agents are instructed to remind passengers of the rule regarding the wearing of the mask at the station and during transport and to invite them first and foremost to comply with the regulations. The primary goal is therefore not repressive. The fine shall be imposed by the SNCB only as a last resort if the person fails to comply with the order of the observing officer. The justification for the existence of such a fine is, therefore, to provide train personnel with a law enforcement tool to enforce the order for the wearing of the mask for the purpose of security for all. With regard to your question about Infrabel, this company attaches the utmost importance to the safety of its staff. His efforts are ongoing to improve it. For example, Infrabel has been working for several months on digital solutions to improve the safety of its employees in the framework of the infrastructure works along the tracks or in the context of the port of the individual protective equipment linked to certain tasks presenting an accident risk. Following the Corona crisis, this work was quickly reoriented. Those relating to the respect of the human-machine safety distances on the yards have allowed to develop a solution in the form of a beacon reminding the staff on site to respect the social distances. The work on the wearing of safety equipment has enabled two applications to be developed: one allows the personnel who wish to check the wearing of the mask and the other allows both to check that the capacity of a place is not exceeded and that the rules of distance are respected. Information shall, where appropriate, be given by the device to invite persons present to comply with any of these rules. The internal design of these tools based on work already done represents derisory amounts, all the more so as they are based on free software. They also make it possible not to have to buy external solutions. The purpose of these tools is to ensure the safety of employees present on the site. Infrabel provided them to various construction teams and placed them in a few places where its staff is likely to gather, such as the refectories, to test them in situ. Their ease of implementation makes it very easy to measure efficiency in different places. Indeed, they are, depending on the case, either beacons in the form of bracelets, or a laptop equipped with a small camera and diffusers such as anyone can buy them in the trade. At present, both the welcome and the feedback seem to be positive. In view of the changing situation, the use of different devices may be extended to the various industrial sites managed by Infrabel. Infrabel makes available to all public services which request it the result of its work, so that they can adapt them themselves to their own needs. Several companies have already expressed interest in these innovations. The tools developed by Infrabel aim only at the safety of staff in the context of their work. They do not use any personal databases and any images captured are not recorded, so the protection of privacy is fully ensured. Infrabel has also made a commitment to staff representatives to use these tools in strict compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u28	Mrs Zanchetta, I think you have received a detailed answer, but I leave it to you to judge.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u29	Minister, thank you for all the details. With regard to my second question, I am pleased to know that with regard to personal data, Infrabel's workers do not have to worry. If this pilot experiment works, I hope it can be expanded, because it is a means of protecting the agents and the people who work. This is absolutely fundamental, especially since we must prepare for this type of crisis in the future. In relation to my first question, thank you also for all these details. I see that everything is being done at the level of health protection, since you are talking to me about cleaning, affected personnel, etc. I expected more details about the reaction that might be given to the number of people travelling without a mask, but I suspect it's more difficult to assess. The fact that repression is not the original objective is probably a good thing. Today we must rely on prevention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, according to Infrabel, the necessary works and interventions were, of course, linked to the planned train traffic at that time. The large maintenance and renewal yards and capacity expansion yards were unlocked during the crisis. Since 8 May, they have been resumed in a controlled manner, provided, of course, that all security measures are strictly respected. At the start of the crisis, Infrabel immediately drew up a replanning plan. According to Infrabel, we can say the following today. Firstly, there is no delay in safety maintenance. Secondly, non-urgent maintenance work was re-established as soon as possible, provided strict respect for safety measures. Thirdly, in the replanning of the works that could not be carried out during the crisis, priority was given to the works that are structural for the rail operators' transport plans in 2021. The delays for these yards can almost always be made in 2020, with the exception of electrification of railway line 19, Mol-Hamont. This planning was already very strict, with a deadline in December 2020. Despite permanent weekend work, there is no margin for catching up with several weeks. The replanning of all the other yards is ongoing. It is too early to give a conclusive answer. The analysis of the impact on budgets is still ongoing, but has not yet been completed. During the entire crisis, Infrabel has complied with all applicable regulations and provisions to ensure safety for the shifts and demand the same attitude from subcontractors. The use of reserve pools is evidence of this practice by the infrastructure manager. Infrabel has introduced a gradual phasing-out strategy which provides for the resumption of the normal regime in the yards from 1 July. In view of this, all necessary work stations were adapted and all safety measures were implemented in order to reboot all maintenance and renewal works.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that the delays in most projects will be overtaken. That's the intention. I hope, of course, that Infrabel can also succeed in this intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u32	Mr President, this question dates back to 23 April. We're not really in time anymore. Minister, could you contextualize your answer? In this way, we would obtain a record of the maintenance and hygiene conditions since the resumption.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u33	Mr Minister, this question dates from some time ago and we have already questioned you at a previous meeting about working conditions in SNCB's workshops. You said at the time that a lot of measures were being taken, but we still received a large number of questions and complaints from the people in those workshops. The fear is still with the employees, so I would like to know if any additional measures have been taken to ensure that they can feel very safe in SNCB's workshops.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u34	SNCB lets me know that she fully understands that her staff are concerned, as do many of us at the moment. In order to meet the maintenance of a transport plan in the context of COOVID-19, it was important to maintain all trains. In order to carry out its activities, all available personnel should be scheduled in order to maintain the homogeneity of the teams and ensure that all rolling stock remains operational. The context in which staff were asked to return to work is therefore one in which risks were assessed and measures were taken to ensure maximum protection. For example, staff from Cuesmes' workshop are working on the M6 equipment that was essential for the train service of national interest. Less essential work, such as the modernisation of the I6, has been suspended and the mid-term revision of the M6 has been completed during this period, but in such a way that the rolling stock remains operational. Systematic cleaning with verrucidal products is carried out at least once a day in all common areas by the workshop maintenance service. Staff were made aware of the precautions to be taken and of the possibility of reporting a possible defect in the social distancing rule by means of a nominative letter. Measures to limit the number of persons present had been introduced in the washhouses and refectories. In addition, where social distancing was not possible because of the specific nature of certain occupations, protective equipment had been made available to staff. All of these elements had been implemented following a risk analysis specific to VOCID-19 in collaboration with the SNCB prevention advisors. In order to remain attentive to its staff, SNCB had also created a specific VOCID-19 mailbox. SNCB prides itself on the dynamism and responsiveness of all its field staff, who can also raise issues related to the security and protection measures put in place. One of the interventions had also identified a risk of contamination by their whistle for train attendants. SNCB immediately ordered 3,000 electronic whistles for its accompanying staff. To date, SNCB has invested more than €3 million in equipment and equipment to protect its staff and users. There is a sufficient stock of equipment to be able to cope with a second wave of coronavirus. Of course, she doesn't want it at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers. We have feedback of problems of impossibility of social distancing in the workshops. If a series of things are put in place, the SNCB must shed light on the reasons why this has not been possible in some places. In the future, these things will not have to happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u37	Question No 55005590C by Mrs Sarah Schlitz is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u38	Minister, this is also a question that I asked Minister Marghem at the end of April. It is recalled that at the beginning of the crisis, empty planes were seen flying because of the 80/20 rule that airlines, if they do not use their slots, may lose their slots. So it was a long-term problem. This rule was finally suspended. What we are asking for is the revision of this absurd rule, which has the effect of forcing companies to fly more, without any correlation with demand. It seems completely aberrant to us in 2020 to have such rules with their perverse effects, when we are experiencing the climate crisis that we are facing. Minister Marghem had told me that she shared my analysis and that she should consult with Minister Bellot. So I was wondering if you had any additional information to provide me with on this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u39	Dear colleague, the European regulation governing the allocation and maintenance of slots at an airport is quite complex, I agree. I would like to go back to the facts reported in the press and briefly recall how the rules in force work. We were able to read in the press a few months ago that "the airlines were doing empty flights to maintain their historical right". This information is totally wrong. Airlines fly primarily with efficiency and profitability criteria. It is also necessary to avoid judging whether an airline is able to fly only on the basis of the number of passengers on board. On the one hand, the on-board cargo is particularly essential to the management of the current crisis and, on the other hand, the return flight of this aircraft on its base are all elements taken into account by the company in assessing the profitability of this rotation. During the major crises that affected the air sector such as the eruption of the Icelandic volcano in 2010, the SARS in 2011, the terrorist attacks in Brussels in 2016 and now the crisis of the VOCID-19, the authorities, with the unanimous support of the industry, suspended this rule for the period of the crisis, this decision directly helping to avoid any perverse effect of the system. Each time, the industry has requested that this rule be suspended in order to prevent companies from being tempted to operate unladen flights. The sector does not ask for this rule to be called into question, because in normal times it is useful and effective. The 80/20 rule also helps to eliminate from the system a series of flights which, mainly because of their lack of profitability, are regularly cancelled or not operated. This also helps to make better use of the infrastructure needed to operate flights in a better environmental and economic safety. I'm coming to security. The airport slot allocation mechanism helps to establish more accurate flight forecasts and ensure that airport capacity will not be exceeded. Environmentally, coordinated flight planning tends to reduce delays, avoid air traffic overload and, consequently, allow for the wider use of lower consumption procedures such as continuous descent procedures – resulting in a positive impact on the environmental impact of the sector. Finally, from an economic point of view, the 80/20 system is closely monitored at all coordinated airports. The series of flights eliminated by this system are thus replaced by more cost-effective economic projects. It would be wrong to believe that the deletion of the 80/20 rule would have any effect on the quantity of flights operated. On the contrary, this would result in chaotic situations on large airport platforms – this rule being applied only at large airports, such as Brussels-National. In those of smaller dimensions, it is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. At the beginning of the crisis, airlines continued to fly empty aircraft. It is popular outrage that has put pressure on European bodies to hasten the suspension of this rule. We did not see any communication from Ryanair requesting the suspension of the 80/20 system. On the other hand, I do not call for the complete abolition of the latter, but it should be revised to adapt it to the crises that we may still have the opportunity to live. Finally, I am somewhat surprised by the dissonance between your answer and that of Mrs Marghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u41	Mr President, this issue has been postponed the last time because of our very busy agenda. So I'm glad she's coming back today. Minister, I wanted to focus on the issue of the non-reimbursement of the Campus card. My question is from a moment ago, but I wanted to demonstrate to you the great disappointment of young people from my province, and probably also. They renewed their Campus card before confinement and were unable to be reimbursed. I wanted to give you a concrete, proven example from the field to illustrate my point. A student from Arlon had renewed his Campus card on March 8, 2020 to go to the ULB. Of the ten trips, he made only two, one on March 8 and one on March 12. The next day, March 13, the rectors decided to operate via distance courses. As a result, the student no longer made train trips between his home and the university. Campus cards with a validity period of 49 days, with the remaining 8 trips having expired without the possibility of reimbursement. The student contacted SNCB, who replied: "The repayment conditions remain unchanged. No refund is possible for the valid Student Multi (formerly Campus card). Minister, what do you think of this impossibility of refunding the Campus card during a period of confinement? Don't you see it as an unfair measure against students? Finally, while today we must fight global warming more than ever and promote the use of public transport, do you not find it appropriate to help students and encourage them to take public transport without penalising them in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, contrary to what has been said, train tickets and subscriptions can be refunded, according to the usual conditions of sale via the refund application form on the SNCB website. Of course, we have to ask for it. The other three public transport companies with which SNCB works closely on these issues and others have confirmed that we apply the same principle. On the other hand, SNCB has decided to extend the validity of paper cards by 10 journeys until 30 June 2020 for those that mature during the containment period. As far as all the other products are concerned, I have already replied, knowing that the four transport companies are working together on a permanent basis to have a common action, reflection and response to be given to the various governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to learn that the validity of paper cards is extended. However, it is a bit surprising that the validity of all these cards is extended until June 30, as the deadline is quite short. When you have a Rail Pass on which there are eight routes left, the delay is very limited and a little arbitrary. In my view, it would have been fairer to extend the validity by three months regardless of the transport ticket. However, the extension until June 30 is good news.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u44	Minister, this possibility of extending the validity of tickets raises questions to me as the health conditions associated with university attendance remain the same. I am therefore not sure that these tickets will be used by 30 June. Anyway, I take note of the answer you gave us. I'll sum it up to pass it on to the people who called me in.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u45	I would like to point out that the announcement for the extension until 30 June is already several weeks old. It is therefore not recent. Four weeks ago, it was not known whether or not schools would resume. But I hear what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u46	Thank you for that clarification. Indeed, this information had eluded me. However, my question is at the end of April. It would have been easier to get the answer directly in committee several weeks ago. As parliamentarians, we also receive questions on this subject every day. I do not have the impression that the communication was made broadly to the people concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u47	I fully confirm what my colleague has just said in this regard. I am not sure that this particular information has been sufficiently relayed. The people who had questioned me still ask themselves the question today. It may be appropriate, at the level of the services of the Minister's office, to press for communication in this direction to clarify the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u48	I would like to say that the minister is still very available to come regularly to answer questions, in relation to other ministers. But there is an important stock of questions, the period of health crisis blocked all this a little. We had specific discussions on VOCID-19. There was a confinement. In fact, we will not exhaust the agenda today. We have already scheduled two dates before the end of the session. The Minister is very willing to come and answer questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u49	You will have noticed, Minister, that this question is already a few weeks old and that it is therefore partly overtaken by current events. Nevertheless, I would have liked to have received an update on the organisation of the train supply to the coast in the coming summer. After all, many people in their own country are expected to look for recreation and coastal mayors have already expressed their concern about this. Have you consulted with them yet? What changes does SNCB make to ensure the safety of day-trips? There was earlier talk of possible distraction of trains towards less crowded beaches if the others were overcrowded. Is such a thing practically feasible? What is your own view on a possible adapted train offer to and from the coast during the summer months?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that she is currently planting the normal summer offer. However, this can be changed on the basis of the decisions taken by the public authorities. After all, all mayors must decide for themselves how they will deal with things in their congregation this summer. Much will therefore depend on decisions and evolutions on which SNCB has no grasp at all. SNCB therefore wants to know how the coastal communities will organise everything before it can decide which train offer it will be able to use in full safety this summer. Much will depend, for example, on the admission of day tourists. SNCB has already consulted the municipalities and the province. She will also make the necessary arrangements with the province of West Flanders, the coastal municipalities and the security services to organise train traffic in safe conditions this summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u51	Minister, I am not entirely reassured by your answer. After all, I hear that no agreements have yet been made, that SNCB is maintaining its standard offer and that consultations with coastal mayors are still ongoing. The problem was spotted by the coastal mayors at the beginning of May and we are now a month and a half further. Within two weeks the summer vacation starts, which makes the timing particularly tight. I hope that there is still the possibility of setting up an appropriate organisation, because that is, of course, easier said than done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u52	Mr Minister, this question was put some time ago. As a result of the corona crisis and the significant decline in air traffic, Brussels Airport closed runway 25L/07R on 18 March 2020. On 2 April 2020 the runway 01/19 was also closed, unless its use was inevitable due to a strong north-north-east wind. This runway 19 normally handles half the night departures between 23.00 and 6.00 and part of the rooms in the off-peak hours of the weekend, in accordance with the airport agreements. As a result, there is a full concentration of departing aircraft over the North Rand and north of Brussels. Is the information true that only one runway is used? Is it true that all these routes are the same, with the result that more departing aircraft over the north of Brussels? If so, why is that so? Are unused slots of passenger flights open to cargo flights during the day, so that they do not have to take place overnight? If no, can this be investigated?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u53	As a result of the corona crisis, at the end of March, the airport and skeyes carried out a reduction in the staff deployed in order to have the necessary spare staff to take over in the event of illness. It has also been decided to operate on a single job. This was made possible by the drastic reduction of air traffic in the outbreak of the pandemic. The use of runway 25R alone has indeed given rise to a concentration of traffic over the Noordrand. Neighborhood residents in that area have charged this. The Flemish Region questioned us about this and asked us to examine with skeyes and BAC whether other solutions were possible. As a result, it was decided to spread night traffic more evenly between runways 25R and 19 according to the spirit of the PRS used in normal conditions. This became operational on 1 June. Since 15 June, as part of the resumption of commercial passenger flights, things have changed positively. The starting routes used since then are very close to the nominal situation, as expected in the known PIA before the crisis of the coronavirus. However, the number of aircraft operating in Brussels-National remains far below what existed at the time. In about three weeks, as early as July 3, important work will take place on Runway 25R, which will then be unavailable for several weeks. After interviewing my services, they confirmed to me that Runway 19 had received all the regulatory certifications as prescribed by EASA and ICAO and that the measures necessary to ensure aviation safety have been studied taking into account the use that will be made of Runway 19 this summer. After these exceptional situations, it is my will to return to the use of the three tracks as published in the AIP and that the PRS can be fully respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u54	Thank you for your answers, Minister. I'm very happy to hear there's been so much consultation after neighborhood residents made the complaint to you. I am therefore pleased to hear that the concentration has stopped and that people have thought about spreading it more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u55	Mr President, unlike the questions that we have just had, this question is still burningly topical. More and more countries believe in the potential of night travel within Europe. Those countries are investigating which connections can be profitable. Often that can be the basis for something to get started. As we have also requested in our resolution on which we will normally vote tomorrow in plenary, we hope that Belgium will be able to carry out such a study quickly, so that we can be fully part of the various links of which more and more are being launched. In our view, Belgium, as a central link in Europe, cannot fail to do so. More concrete than that. In the press we read that Sweden sees potential in a connection between Malmö, Cologne and Brussels. There are still some obstacles to overcome. Fortunately, the start has been made and the Swedish Government now wants to establish partnerships with other countries. Denmark has declared itself willing to join the story. I am very curious what Belgium will do. I read that the Swedish authorities have contacted you in order to cross a number of concrete slopes. The Swedish Government has clearly set itself the goal of linking its country with Brussels, the heart of Europe, in a climate-friendly way, and is supported by the Danish Government. The responsible Swedish authority distinguishes three slopes, which are likely to comply with European rules. A first track is that Sweden, Denmark, Germany and Belgium fully cooperate and declare this train service on their territory as a public service for the implementation of national and European policy objectives for sustainable international transport. A second slope is that Belgium allows the Swedish government to mark the whole line as a public service and to support it accordingly. The third point is that Belgium does not declare this line public service and does not allow Sweden to characterize this line in Belgium, but allows a train supported by Sweden and Denmark to travel to Belgium on its territory. First of all, how do you relate to these three options? Secondly, according to the public report of the Swedish authority, Belgium would have been sceptical about the first two options. Is that right? Why is that? Thirdly, what action can and will Belgium take to strengthen the profitability of this rail link? Fourthly, do you intend to cooperate with the Swedish authorities in the public procurement or direct award of this line? Finally, what other possible collaborations on new international train connections have already been discussed with SNCB, Infrabel, the FPS Mobility or your cabinet?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u56	I will intervene because it is very important that we hold the debate around Malmö's night train. We are very much in demand. Not long ago there were night trains, including to Switzerland. We want this to be extended now and unfair competition with low-cost airlines to be eliminated. We will table a resolution to make the link between aviation and good public transport by train. That would be the best solution in this crisis. Has SNCB been contacted by the Swedish authorities regarding the start of a night train Malmö-Brussels? What position does the Belgian Government take with regard to the start-up? Will SNCB take concrete steps to start this route effectively? Will SNCB also participate actively?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u57	Mr President, Minister, my colleagues have already explained what this is about. I shall confine myself to my questions. Have there been any discussions with your administration and the Swedish government about the new route? What was the outcome of these talks? What were the questions to Belgium from Sweden? Where do they face the biggest problems in Belgium? There are still many obstacles on the road to getting a new night train in Brussels. What support can you offer for the new night connection to Sweden? What steps will you take in this regard? Financially the picture seems difficult to fit. The Swedish government is thinking of subsidies, through a public service obligation, for the night train. In Denmark, a political decision was taken to co-finance night trains between Sweden, Denmark, Germany and Belgium. The amount corresponds to DKK 5 million per year for three years. Germany will hold the boat or we will have to cancel the train for the time being. How do you feel about Sweden's question? Are you considering joining a tender project for that night train? If so, under what conditions? For the Nightjet, ÖBB works together with SNCB. SNCB provides not only the locomotive for the Belgian route, but also train escorts and train drivers. SNCB also sells tickets for the route. How's this cooperation going? Is SNCB open to starting the same cooperation with other commercial players?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the planned relationship to and from Denmark and Sweden through Germany, I was indeed approached by my Swedish colleague. I asked the administration to participate actively in the interdepartmental working group set up for that project. The FPS Mobility and Transport took part in the two meetings of that working group, in February and March, as well as the administrations of the other three countries concerned. I have instructed the administration and Infrabel to provide all necessary technical information, as part of the feasibility study of the Swedish Ministry. Following the launch by the ÖBB of a direct connection to Vienna, this is a second chance to put Brussels and Belgium on the European night train map. I hope that this opportunity can be seized, although many questions still have to be answered in the knowledge that international passenger transport by rail is liberalised and, above all, depends on the commercial initiative of the operators. In this context, it should be recalled that the rule in that area is open access, namely access to the rail network without direct subsidies. This scheme covers all high-speed connections to and from Belgium, as well as the connection to Vienna, which was recently launched by the ÖBB. It is also the only regime currently in force for all long-distance relations in Germany. The primary role of the authorities is to create favourable framework conditions. First of all, I am thinking of the subsidisation of an efficient railway infrastructure. In order to encourage the development of new rail services, the Government has decided to substantially reduce the infrastructure charge for passenger trains, including international conventional trains. The specific rate will also be applied during the night – which is particularly encouraging. This reform will come into effect as of next December and will significantly reduce the operating costs associated with the night use of railway infrastructure. This is a crucial element in opening up new relationships, especially at night, that are financially viable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u59	Mr President, Minister, the resolution was adopted in committee and I hope that tomorrow we will vote for it in plenary. It is clear that this committee wants to be ambitious when it comes to international trains. I also expect this signal to be sent to any operator who wishes to make a new train connection with Brussels. I am very pleased to hear that Belgium has taken part in meetings and that technical information has been provided. I am now also hearing that the lane fees will be reduced and that this would apply from December 2020. I think that's good news. I have some doubts about what you said about the subsidy ring. After all, as I interpret European legislation, we can still think about supporting the section of the route that runs across Belgian territory. I hope you still want to look at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u60	Minister, I am pleased that a step is being taken in the right direction, in terms of reducing infrastructure charges. The night train is truly a transport of the future to achieve our climate goals and reduce our mobility problems. We really need to get on with this, especially as people are ready. When an offer is created, the demand follows very quickly. We must therefore rely on this transport from now on. We will continue to come to the Mobility Committee with our proposals to subsidise certain lines, so that Belgium can become even more involved in this type of transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u61	Mr President, with regard to the answer, I agree with my predecessors. I would also like to stress that referring to the question submitted in writing does not imply any appreciation of the importance of that question. Let me get this straight. We also consider this to be an important subject. However, if we can meet in a more efficient way, I would like to encourage this. Hence the way we work. In any case, it is good to hear that the Minister and the FPS Mobility take the opportunity to get a new international train into our country in a benevolent and constructive way. I am also pleased to hear that the adjustment of road charges, a nail on which we have been knocking for a number of years, will be effective. I believe that this is a good thing. This can only make our country more attractive to the international market and to international trains. As far as the subsidy to which Mr Buyst referred is concerned, I believe that it is only possible if a part of domestic passenger transport is allowed on those international trains, but that means that there must be unreserved places on those trains. I don't know if that's feasible. That might be a piste that could be explored further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u62	Minister, I have just received a whole file today from a civilian movement dealing with night flights and night trains. I would just like to say that we are actually in an ideal situation to build that up. We must make use of the environment and the corona crisis to work out many more things. We must be ambitious in order to expand the night trains. I hope that we can work that out with a lot of people in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that it has already been constructively worked on, both by your cabinet and by the FPS Mobility. Brussels is the centre of Europe. Hopefully that can be the same for the night trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u64	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Roggeman's 55005852C, 55006862C and 556970C have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u65	Mr President, Minister, we all know by now that a mask is mandatory in the station and on the train. I, too, often wear a mouth mask. Luckily, I have a mom who made me mouth masks, because I'm not that handy with needle and thread myself. Many people need to get mouth masks in a different way and it is good that mouth masks are distributed in the station. However, we cannot agree to its cost. In our opinion, public transport should be accessible and affordable for all. Selling a mouth mask for 15 euros makes an entry ticket so not cheap for the train much more expensive. I know, of course, that the price of the mouth masks is not determined by SNCB, as that price is regulated through the concessions of the vending machines. The concessionaires have announced that they will soon distribute cheaper, non-reusable mouth masks, but we do not think that is a good option either. After all, we will have to use a mouth mask on public transport for a long time to come. We therefore believe that we should choose to give everyone sufficient reusable mouth masks instead of growing the waste heap with disposable masks. The distribution of affordable quality mouth masks, in my opinion, is not the responsibility of the concessionaires, nor of SNCB, but is the responsibility of the government. Giving everyone one mouth mask at home is not enough if we expect people to wear a mouth mask in several places. I drive two to three times a week to Brussels and a mouth mask has to be washed every day before it can be used again, so I have quite a few in my house. I therefore believe that it is the government's responsibility to distribute free reusable mouth masks through the stations to those who do not yet have one. Minister, do you share the view that 15 euros on top of the price of a train ticket raises an extra high threshold for using public transport? What will you do to ensure that people from vulnerable families can continue to use public transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u66	Minister, I agree with my colleague's remarks. Currently in stations masks are sold through distributors. These are disposable masks at a price of 1 euro or 1.40 euro and reusable masks at a cost of 9 to 15 euros. I am rather disturbed by the fact that operators can make profits on the back of the sanitary measures put in place at the stations. Have you had any consultation with them? What are the benefits, if any? In practical terms, distributors are located inside the station, while wearing the mask is mandatory from the entrance. I witnessed tensions between employees of Securail and travellers who did not yet have a mask and who wanted to take the train. They were denied access to the station for this reason. The regulations are somewhat unclear on this point and perhaps tolerance should be exercised in keeping with the measure of wearing the mask between the entrance to the station and the distributor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u67	Mr President, the masks, it is a subject that we have often discussed in this House. At the moment when the Belgian government promises everyone free mouth masks, we see that mouth masks are sold in the stations at 15 euros each. It was not SNCB that sold the mouth masks at usury prices, but Selecta, which is the concessionaire of the vending machines. In the meantime, in many other countries, people are going the other way and people can get mouth masks for free. Maybe 15 euros isn't much money for you, Minister, but for a lot of people that is a lot of money. Are Selecta's dedicated vending machines converted into 17 stations that were already there or are they new vending machines placed at the request of the NBMS? Did SNCB know that Selecta would sell mouth masks each in the stations, while other vending machines, for example in Ghent, worked with a package? So apparently there are differences. Has SNCB made money by making that concession and selling those mouth masks and other products, such as disinfecting wipes and hand gels? How many mouth masks were sold to this day? Was there enough offer? Are they still offered at the same price today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u68	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government has decided that from 4 May and from the age of 12 on public transport a mouth mask, or any other alternative covering the mouth and nose, must be worn in the stations and on the platforms. SNCB therefore urges its passengers to ensure that they already have the necessary protective equipment at their disposal. SNCB also asks to wear the mouth mask from entering the station, including on the platform and on board the trains, following the example of SNCB's staff. SNCB lets me know that it does not itself deliver mouth masks or gels to its customers. These can be sold by concessionaires and shops present in the stations. As part of the first phase of the decoupling, a number of concessions at these different stations indicated that they wished to play a role in the sale of hydro-alcoholic masks and gels in addition to their usual range of products, but at the prices and conditions they would have defined themselves. Specifically, since 4 May 2020, these hygiene products have been sold by SNCB concession holders either at their vending machines or in their stores in a hundred stations spread across Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u69	Minister, it is true that it is not the responsibility of public transport companies to distribute mouth masks, but it is your responsibility and that of the government. It has a responsibility to ensure that everyone can move safely. We must reward those who want to leave the car on the sidelines, who want to take public transport. We do not do that by setting additional thresholds. A price of EUR 15 may not be much for you and for me, but for a family in poverty, an extra EUR 15 means postponing the train journey. We'll have so many ministers for mouth masks. Perhaps there could have been one who could have worked out a global plan on how to ensure that the population has enough mouth masks to get back to work on the train. I believe that this government should really take responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u70	Minister, I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u71	Minister, I would like to support what my predecessor said. It is indeed the government's responsibility to ensure that people have mouth masks and can use the train without any problems, without having to pay EUR 15. That's the government's responsibility. As my predecessor said, there have been more than enough ministers working on the mouth masks. It is really not serious that people are dealing with this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u72	Minister, on a normal weekday, more than 4,000 passengers use the station of Tienen. It's in the top 20 of the most widely used stations. Unfortunately, it's not treated like that. The station is in a terrible condition and is not adequately maintained. Work's been going on for a while. Apparently, they don't have an ending. The Ten-Earth and all users have very little understanding for this because very little or no communication is being made. Accessibility is already a disaster for wheelchair users. A number of platforms simply cannot be reached along the main entrance and one has to go through the back. It really is a disaster. In June 2017, it was announced that a renovation of the Tiense station building would take place. A budget of EUR 10 million was approved for this purpose. By the end of the year, those works would be ready. However, nothing is less true. Those works haven't started yet. According to what we have heard, they have moved for the umpteenth time to 2023. What is the exact planning of the renovation right now? When will the renovation start exactly? What budgets are foreseen? Why has this been postponed a few times and why is it now referred to as 2023? It keeps dragging and the station is a horror. How often is the station cleaned? How often is the environment maintained? Does that happen by SNCB itself or is it done by subcontracting? The platform increases have been dragging on for a long time. When will they be finished? Are there any other works planned on accessibility? There are a few bike sheds placed. How many bicycle sheds will finally come? Will they finally be taken over? How many loans were there from the Blue Bikes between 2017 and 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u73	All installations in the station of Tienen are maintained periodically. Every weekday there is a thorough brushing. For example, platform lighting is replaced after a certain period. The parking lot is brushed in the winter months. SNCB will also restore the roof at the exit of the underpass. This is planned for the beginning of the summer. The works on platform 4 have been completed since 19 January 2020. The platform is again available. On the platforms 1 and 4 new shelters come. The platform 4 is fully accessible to less mobile passengers, passengers with luggage and prams via an access ramp. During the work on platform 1 the platform remains available. On platform 4 there are also sofas. This platform has two accesses, so passengers can reach the platform directly from the car park and from the existing underpass with bicycle storage. A PPE access was also provided. After carrying out these works, the station has two accessible platforms for passengers. The other platforms will also become fully accessible in the future. All temporary bicycle sheds and roofs in Tienen have been installed. Later a new permanent bicycle storage will be realized in the old post building with places for at least 800 bikes. This summer, the building permit would be submitted for this purpose. The question about the number of times that Blue-Bikes were lent in the Tienen station is best asked to Blue-Bike itself. SNCB does, however, expect that the number of bicycles offered at the Tienen station will continue to increase in the following years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u74	Minister, this answer excels in vagueness. You mentioned working at the beginning of the summer, but what summer is it? If you were referring to this summer, it is already quite late and I do not think this is feasible anymore. You talked about thorough cleaning and fixed periods during which the platforms are maintained. That's literally not right, we're quite sure of that. My main question was actually how much money has now been provided for that thorough work. You have listed a number of works, but I have not heard a single sum. My second important question was when these thorough work would be carried out and you did not answer it either. You framed what would happen, but we already knew that, because we saw the plans a long time ago. I find it scandalous that you do not answer my most important questions at all, namely when it will happen, how many cents are involved and when that money is provided for in the budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u75	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our national airport is gradually starting up again. Given the large losses that airlines have suffered, including Brussels Airlines, the largest operator at our airport, the number of destinations flown is likely to grow slowly. This opens opportunities to reflect on how we can promote the growth of our airport in a moderate and more sustainable way. For example, by giving more modern aircraft priority to restart, with a view to reducing noise, particulate matter and CO2 emissions. The CEO of Schiphol, Mr Dick Benschop, is also taking an option for less nuisance and more sustainability. At the airport of Schiphol there was a ceiling of 500,000 air movements per year. Of this, the CEO said that this ceiling should not be reached again immediately. In the coming years, he proposed using the gradual re-launch of aviation activities to conduct the debate on how Schiphol airport could become more sustainable in a better balance with the environment. At Brussels Airport there is only a ceiling on night flights, i.e. up to 16,000 per year, of which 5,000 depart. Inspired by the approach in the Netherlands, I would like to ask you the following questions. Do you agree that a gradual and more sustainable start-up and growth of the number of flights after the corona crisis is also necessary and possible at Brussels Airport? What do you think of the Schiphol approach, setting a general flight ceiling? How about the slope where an adjustment of this ceiling is linked to a lower impact on the environment and residents by the use of more modern aircraft and possible other measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u76	My dear colleague, the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic has a huge impact on the aviation sector. The number of passengers has fallen extremely sharply as a result of the COOVID-19 crisis. There were 99.3 % fewer passengers in April. As an example, on a normal day, approximately 80,000 passengers pass through Brussels Airport, while in April only 175 passengers were counted at the airport. The total number of flight movements in April 2020 fell by 88 % compared to the same period in 2019. The aviation sector could be the sector that will continue to be hit economically by the corona crisis. He was among the first sectors to feel the economic impact of the pandemic and will be among the last sectors for which the activities return to their normal level. The aviation sector, by definition, is not only dependent on COOVID-19 measures in its own country, but also depends on the measures taken in the countries to which and from which they are flown. As a result, aviation will only have a real start-up after the corona virus has been contained worldwide, and then only have a slow revival depending on how quickly passenger confidence recovers, with very limited passenger numbers in the first few months after the take-up. Over the entire year 2020, Brussels Airport expects a decrease in passenger criminality between 47 and 70 % compared to 2019, depending on the further evolution of the pandemic worldwide and the approach to exit strategy. In 2019, 26.3 million passengers were counted at Brussels Airport. Most companies assume that it will take years before their activities return to the level of 2019. These facts show how the aviation sector must fight to survive in a context of a massive decline in activity over a very long period of time. The announcement of the heavy restructuring at Brussels Airlines on 12 May last and the demand for state aid speak for themselves, with the corresponding impact on our country's connectivity. The problems are not limited to the airlines. The airport community at Brussels Airport consists of more than 300 companies, including ground handling companies, catering companies, organisations working on airport infrastructure and many others. The corona crisis creates a fundamentally negative situation for the balance sheet of many companies at and around the airport. Brussels Airport is the second most important growth engine in our country's economic development. The 370 companies around the airport provide more than 24,000 direct jobs on the site and additional over 40,000 indirect jobs. Brussels Airport contributes 2% of GDP annually and creates 3.2 billion euros of added value. In these circumstances, as a government, we must consider how we can help rebuild our economy. In that context and with the knowledge that the business model of Schiphol Airport is not comparable to that of Brussels Airport, and that KLM is not comparable both in terms of its status and in terms of its size to Brussels Airlines, an in-depth investigation will have to be carried out into the consequences that could arise from any condition that would be imposed for the re-launch of the airport activity. We must proceed with great caution and caution. There is already a very extensive legal framework with many operating restrictions for the national airport, such as the limitation to 16,000 night slots per year. Other legal restrictions are the noise restrictions, the so-called quota counts, depending on the time of day, the additional limitation of the quiet weekends and three nights a week, a flight ban for older types of aircraft etc. Moreover, the airport community itself has in recent years set out many important noise reduction achievements, such as 28 % fewer flight movements since 2000 and 38 % less nocturnal movements since 2007. The policy of Brussels Airport has for years been aimed at stimulating low-noise and low-emission flights through tariff policy. With the introduction of an environmental component in airport tariffs, landing and departure rates are three times higher for noisy aircraft, which will be tightened in the next tariff period. A new generation of aircraft has been attracted which is becoming quieter and better filled. These and other elements mean that the number of people who have been severely hampered has been more than halved since 2000, in particular by 57%. Rather than imposing additional operating restrictions, it is therefore important that we continue to encourage more sustainable aircraft and the operations associated with them. In my view, it is also more important to redesign airspace so that it can be flown more efficiently and with less discomfort. We note that the airport community is working effectively on this, such as the listed achievements, but also with other initiatives, such as the electrification of fleet rolling stock from ground handling operations, with an investigation to offer sustainable aviation fuel in the long term, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u77	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I say "expanded" instead of "somewhat too long."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u78	Mr President, Minister, I would also like to thank you for your comprehensive reply. Of course, I agree with you that aviation is an indispensable link in our economic fabric. I am very aware of the economic importance of the airport in Zaventem and Brussels Airport. I also hope that aviation can have a prosperous growth. I also agree with you that great efforts are already being made to link this growth to more sustainability. However, there is something to be said about a signal that is also expected by the local residents to use usefully the period that will now have to be bridged, to re-establish the activities at the 2019 airport, to take further steps and to link the step-by-step re-start and growth of our airport even more to a balance in the area of noise pollution and emissions. I also agree with you that we need to do this in a cautious way and that there are already a lot of operating restrictions. Nevertheless, I believe that there are still a lot of options and that we can learn from, for example, the approach adopted by the Netherlands. Thank you, however, for your answer. I will certainly come back to the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u79	Mr President, I had two questions, but yesterday a third question was added on the current situation of traders. I'd like to take it with me, because this is all one whole. It's all connected. I would therefore prefer to outline the whole issue so that the Minister can reply. This is, in a manner of speaking, one domino. The question about the bankruptcy of Swissport yesterday and the situation today, I would therefore like to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u80	You have the freedom to answer your questions, as the Minister has the freedom to answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u81	Mr Minister, the airport is very close to my heart. I get phones every day. Thousands of people are in trouble and don't know what they'll do tomorrow. This is a terrible and very uncertain situation. You can talk about corona, Minister, but I get pretty angry when I hear liberals talking about the economic importance of the airport, you just said it, 2% of gross national product and 4.2 billion added value, and we have three major problems at the same time. Firstly, the problem of Brussels Airlines. This is still not right. Today I read that one of Lufthansa's major shareholders does not agree to the deal that has been made. For Brussels Airlines, therefore, there is still uncertainty as to whether the agreement with Lufthansa will continue. Brussels Airlines is the airport's home carrier and provides 40% of the airport's transport. It is very important that this can be continued. People are being put under great pressure to negotiate a plan that goes all the way towards Ryanair. We do not want the airport's 'ryanairisation'. Secondly, we see that Brussels Airport, which runs the airport, has made quite a profit over the last five years. We calculated that. It now assumes no responsibility whatsoever for the continuation of the airport. What happened? Swissport's going bankrupt. There's only one handler. Today I almost fell off my chair when I read that Aviapartner, where things are as bad as Swissport, will get money from the government. Mr Levaux, attached to the MR, to a company that has financial problems of its own, is asking the government for money to put people in a precarious situation. Where are we going? And then there's only one handler, because normally there have to be two traders. So the problem has not been solved. This means that there must be a new handler. And what's that new handler gonna do? Organise social dumping at the airport? That's what's gonna happen. Minister, you said here in Parliament last week that social dumping and price dumping at the airport is no longer sustainable. The two main traders are both making losses. How are we gonna fix that? We ask that there be continuity with regard to Brussels Airlines. We would prefer that society should come into the hands of the government, so that we have a home carrier that ensures that we can guarantee continuity at the airport, because you yourself say that the airport is of economic importance. Brussels Airport makes a profit, Mr Feist himself said that no dividends will be paid. We ask that Brussels Airport take over Swissport's staff to do the handling. It's perfectly possible, I looked it up, that the second handler is Brussels Airport. There is no legal objection to this. I looked it up. What are you going to do about the decision regarding Aviapartner, which is going to be financially reimbursed, that is going to get money? Will that be used to throw people out? Or what will happen to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u82	Mr President, Minister, if one thing is clear, it is that there is work to be done at the airport. We know that this is the second largest economic engine in this country, the largest in Flemish Brabant. I rarely agree with Mrs Vindevoghel, but even a stationary clock indicates the right hour twice a day. There is indeed a need to take steps here. The situation at Brussels Airlines is well known. This means that the regulatory framework for aviation policy and the planned cooperation agreements with the regions must be re-examined. For example, a few years ago, Brussels Airlines decided that EUR 2 million had to be provided to pay the noise fines of the Brussels-Capital Region, because the Brussels-Capital Region wanted to collect them. The last annual accounts submitted by Brussels Airlines indicate that changes to the night flight framework may have a significant impact on the profitability of the company. Of course, that raises a number of questions. Today everyone is talking about this possible loan. Admittedly, it is very important, but of course there are also several other matters of interest to the company. Minister, are you currently involved in the negotiations with Lufthansa in this area? Are measures also envisaged to address the impact of public policy on airlines? Are you prepared to engage in talks with the regions as part of the discussions with Lufthansa, given the impact they have on a number of operational conditions, which, of course, also put very strong pressure on these airlines? What specific questions did Lufthansa ask in this regard in the consultation with the government? For many years there have been calls for action and action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u83	Mr President, Minister, the negotiations between Brussels Airlines, the parent company Lufthansa and the government on aid in exchange for employment guarantees and sustainable future prospects are under way. A sustainable future for Brussels Airlines is also of the utmost importance for Brussels Airport, as Brussels Airlines is the home carrier, accounting for 40% of the traffic there. There would be direct calls between Brussels Airlines and Brussels Airport. The Belgian State, represented by you among others, owns 25% and one share of Brussels Airport, but according to a spokesperson, no question would have been raised by the government to see how Brussels Airport can play a role in Brussels Airlines' file. Surely it could be expected that Brussels Airport will consider what efforts it can make to enable its main customer to be restarted? Minister, do you see Brussels Airport today as a role in creating future prospects for Brussels Airlines? Is it true that the federal government has not asked Brussels Airport to actively look for ways to provide assistance in Brussels Airlines' file? Can you confirm that there are calls between Brussels Airport and Brussels Airlines which would include the re-negotiation of the contract with the airport operator? Is the federal government involved in this, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u84	I must say in advance that this dossier is primarily a financial dossier for Brussels Airlines, which is entrusted to Minister De Croo. Questions to that effect can therefore be put to him. That was the case in plenary last week. The aviation sector is an economic system where companies have a systemic function. For an airport to function, infrastructure, infrastructure manager, airlines and a handling operator are essential. If you do not have an airport manager or handler, there are no airport operations at an airport. Brussels Airlines claims a leading role in the Belgian aviation sector, since it alone accounts for almost 40% of flights at Brussels National Airport. The government is therefore extremely aware of the social and economic importance of that airline for Belgium. The European legislative framework today is based on free and healthy competition between the different actors in the same sector. The possibilities for granting State aid and the nationalisation of economic and industrial sectors are highly regulated. For example, any action by a State in favour of an air carrier should be given the blessing of the European Commission. So thinking that a state can intervene in this file at will is an illusion. As regards Brussels National, it should be recalled that the airport is operated by a private company, in particular Brussels Airport Company (BAC). Like all companies in the aviation sector, BAC has also suffered severely from the corona crisis. Moreover, the economic outlook is not very hopeful. Indeed, the projections made indicate a slow and gradual re-start and the most optimistic projections do not expect a return to normal conditions by the end of 2021. While BAC is aware that the sector will have to be supported in one way or another, its scope for action in this context will still be limited. According to information in the press this morning, in Germany, the largest private shareholder is not sure whether to approve the German support plan for Lufthansa. If this plan does not pass, the latter will seek the protection of its creditors and the system to ensure the continuity of its activities. This is a problem for all its subsidiaries. In Switzerland, I am told that an agreement is signed or almost signed. In Austria, there is an agreement, but nothing would be signed. In Belgium, discussions are still taking place. You will have understood that it is a three-band pool; you must have an agreement between Lufthansa and the Belgian government, but also the binding agreements of the European Commission. According to the information available to me, it is the conditions imposed by the latter that create a problem for Lufthansa's shareholders. Indeed, Europe would require it to abandon slots at certain airports, which are interesting slots to avoid monopoly situations. In short, we are in contact with the air ecosystem, knowing that companies that had called for state support have been supported. Indeed, companies in which the State partially intervenes have already obtained credit lines and support. I am thinking in particular of the Sabca and Sabena Technics. In my opinion, the handling file will be settled in the next few hours, at least for Aviapartner. As far as Brussels Airlines is concerned, contacts are still under way. They take place night and day. For the rest, I cannot tell you any more because it falls within the competence of my colleague, Alexander De Croo. In any event, at the last Kern that I attended, a short time ago, the agreement was not yet completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u85	Minister, this shows that the liberal recipes are not a solution. The problem of baggage handling has not been solved. There was still an approval to be given. Aviapartner was a loss-making company, which is now asking the government for money, and then there is no second hander. All airlines that would now land at the airport and would be dealt with by Swissport will not be dealt with. So nothing is arranged for the handlers, and the situation is very serious. I would like to repeat that we urgently want to organise a hearing with this committee, because there is a risk of an unseen social massacre at the airport, and not all dominoes have yet fallen. There's gonna be more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u86	I replied last week that handling was an important activity at an airport, but it is proportional to the number of aircraft landing. It should not be forgotten. The procedure for the appointment of a second handler is under way, the appeal has been launched and one of the solutions proposed has unfortunately not been accepted, given the refusal of a company. We hope to see a second handler in the next six months. I hope that the activities will resume as soon as possible at 90 or 100 per cent. Thus, all workers who – for the reasons we know – have now lost their jobs but possess the skills required for the performance of the job will have been recalled by the second handler appointed or by the handling company operating in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u87	Minister, what will that mean for the workers? Social dumping will be reorganised. If there is a new handler, what working and wage conditions will the present employees get? We will be catapulted 30 years back in time, to the period of Sabena's bankruptcy. I have been there, and I know what this will mean for the workers. The liberal competition we continue to organize destroys everything at the airport. On the contrary, we need an ecological, sustainable and social solution. The PVDA has therefore tabled a motion for a resolution with a view to a long-term solution. We ask that Brussels Airport should come into the hands of the government, which is the case for a lot of airports. So that's no problem at all. We need a home carrier that has a sustainable solution for aviation, so no 'ryanairisation' as we will now have it. I am convinced that Ryanair will benefit from the current situation at the airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u88	Mr Minister, there is work to be done at the airport, but under no circumstances should we restrict the debate to a discussion on the loan, on handling, and I do not know what else. There are many peripheral factors that are important and why we have been standing still for far too long. It has always been announced that there would be cooperation agreements and a pacification in that dossier. A former Secretary of State, Mr Schouppe, was once named after him with the great agreement between all the parties involved. That agreement no longer exists today, and we have not made any progress. The only thing you have said in recent years has been: "Monsieur Wollants, c'est très sensible." I understand that, but there has to be a solution. We have to do something about that, otherwise the mopping with the tap will stay open. Loans alone will not solve the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u89	Minister, there is not much hope from your answer. What is happening in Germany, the opposition of Lufthansa's largest shareholder to the agreement concluded with Berlin, is very problematic. Last week, Minister De Croo said that contacts between the Belgian Government and Brussels Airlines were intensified with a view to reaching an agreement. I hope this doesn't blow the whistle, but I'm afraid so. I assume that the dossier will still be on the table and it might be useful to have a major debate on the airport as a whole. There are questions about this every week, both here and in the Finance Committee and in the plenary. We are always threatening to go after the facts, and I therefore support the request for a debate, but we will discuss it during the course of the work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to conclude as follows. Mrs Vindevoghel has proposed to organise hearings with the parties concerned, either within our own committee or together with the Committee on Social Affairs. I shall put the proposal to the vote on the order of business. The committee may then decide whether or not to organise hearings. Then, of course, we will have to wait and see if the invited speakers come to the hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u91	Minister, I asked you at the beginning of May about access to the first class during the deconfinition. In peak-hour trains there is an overoccupation of some cars compared to first-class cars, which remain very empty. For me, the priority must be health security during this period. It must take precedence over the rates in force for the various subscriptions. Often the argument that comes back to keep the first class is to guarantee the tranquility of the travelers and a seating position. But for now, we are really far from having this kind of problem. It would really be a good idea to remove the distinctions between first and second classes in order to organise a homogeneous distribution of passengers in the different cars.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u92	Dear colleague, as I have already explained in the committee on 27 May, in order to facilitate social distancing as much as possible, the SNCB opened its first-class cars to all travellers between 23 March and 4 May, during which time the National Interest Train Service was set up. As of 4 May, the offer of trains has resumed almost in its entirety, with a maximum composition. The first class is reserved for travellers who hold a valid ticket. The attendant may always decide to open the first class to all passengers on the basis of overoccupation or not of the trains concerned, which has not been observed so far. Train occupancy rates are indeed very low. In addition, there is a captive clientele who travels first class, pays for and will not take the train if there was no first class. It is 3% of customers, which generate 6.5% of revenues. But this is another debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u93	Mr Minister, this is another debate, but I think my arguments remain valid. Indeed, the trains are very few filled, but there were still a few trips in rush hour during which a few people were observed in some cars. It remains disturbing to see an empty first-class car next to a full car. People's health must go beyond their financial capacity. Furthermore, we know that first-class subscriptions are widely used by parliamentarians, SNCB workers and for most workers who do not pay their tickets themselves. For me, it is a little exaggerated to think that these people would refuse to have a few second-class passengers come to sit with them in the first class, because they would consider it totally unfair. It is putting a lot of responsibilities on the back of a few people, whose opinion is not really sought. I think these people just want a chance to work quietly on the trains and have a seat. This is something that all travellers aspire to and should be accessible to all travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u94	Mr President, I regret that the questions concerning the financial situation and the impact of the corona crisis on SNCB could not be raised, as was the case at the previous committee meeting. Too bad they're being postponed again, so be it. In order to lighten the next sitting, I would like to ask my questions. 55006416C, 55006418C and 55007039C want to convert into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u95	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u96	Mr President, I absolutely must go to a funeral ceremony for an entrepreneur from my region who has died in tragic conditions. He didn't die of the coronavirus but of the moral sequelae of the coronavirus. I really want to be there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u97	Mr President, we have done a good job. Perhaps we could suggest to our colleagues whose questions are already old, to withdraw them or to ask for a written answer. This could degrease the stock of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic214x.u98	I will remind you, even if it is the freedom of everyone. We are likely to be able to hold two more question sessions before the end of our parliamentary session. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you. The session lasted more than three hours and we had a fine debate that was worth it.
