ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u1	Mr President, I would like to say a few things very briefly. I suspect you'll ask how often the system is used and how it works. I can already give some answers to questions that are likely to come, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u2	I suggest that we hear the Minister briefly and then replicate questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it may be a little strange to discuss today a power of attorney decision which was renewed for two months last weekend, in particular the Royal Decree on Corona Parental Leave, which became applicable from 1 May and appeared in the Belgian Official Journal on 14 May. It concerns the parents of at least one child under 12 years of age, even without age conditions in the event of a disability. These parents may use corona parental leave during the months of May and June. Foster parents may also use this temporary scheme. It applies to both the public and private sectors. The employer's agreement is required. The recordings can take place from May 1st. One can reduce work performance by a fifth or half if one works full-time, and by half if one works 75%. Not insignificant, until today a total of 42,283 parents make use of the scheme. These are last Friday's figures for the number of applications. Employers have two months for transmission to the ONEM. This means that this number can still increase. Our estimate is 60,000 people. That is the number of parents who can or will make use of it. In the meantime, I'm sure you've heard from the media or your party that the extensive nuclear cabinet decided last Saturday to extend the corona-parental blast. The power of attorney will be sent to the Council of State and the extension will be carried out under the same conditions as today for the months of July and August. Corona parental leave now runs until the end of August. Colleagues, I hope that short intro has already answered some of your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u4	Madam Minister, we are pleased to finally be able to speak today about Order No.23. It has been weeks since my group called for the establishment of mechanisms to enable parents to take care of their children during the crisis. They'll have waited nine weeks for something to be put in place. It's too long, and we regret it. Nevertheless, with this royal decree, we believe that a step forward has been taken. A suitable parental leave is a good thing. Parents and field associations are also supportive, so it's positive. But these same parents and associations consider the measures insufficient and far too restrictive. First of all, as regards the terms of parental leave "corona", there is a real problem. Current conditions exclude far too many parents. What about those who work part-time, for example, and have no other opportunity to keep their children? I am thinking in particular of single-parent families who struggle to combine work-related obligations with family constraints. As far as the parental leave allowance is concerned, it is far too insufficient. It will discourage many households from taking parental leave. Indeed, how to meet the needs of the family with an allowance of 440 euros for part-time leave. This is all the more complicated because workers have already lost a lot of money in this crisis. Ten days ago, Test Achats published a survey showing that 62% of Belgian households lost money for an average amount of 1,626 euros. As the trade union organisations have pointed out, therefore, your allowance does not take into account the financial reality of the population. This is a serious problem, because you are again excluding people. As the trend shows, this coronavirus parental leave had difficulty taking off. We are not the only ones to say so, since the League of Families has also said about your proposal: "It took nine long weeks for a semblance of solution to be put in place. A semblance, because the conditions of the coronavirus leave are such that, in fact, the majority of parents will remain unsolved." This statement speaks volumes. On the other hand, with regard to defaults, your measure does not offer the same opportunities as normal parental leave. What are you doing with people who need full-time leave, as they have no other way to keep their children? Again, you do not take into account the reality of families, subject to many constraints. In its opinion, the Council of State also questions this point. Why not keep the main terms of normal parental leave, if only for the sake of consistency? Finally, and I will end with that, a condition contained in your royal decree bothers me a lot. This is the provision in section 3, which states that parental leave may only be taken with the agreement of the employer. It's still crazy! Once again, it is the latter who has a say in such an important decision, insofar as it directly concerns the education and development of the child itself. Coronavirus parental leave should have been a binding right, not a measure dependent on the goodwill of the employer, since the balance of power is generally unfavourable to workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u5	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the clarifications. I'll stick to the royal decree. There is one practical question left for me. Is it still necessary to ask for the employer's consent if a retroactive conversion of parental leave is chosen?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u6	Madam Secretary nods in the affirmative. Mr Van Langenhove, was that your only question? [[Yes.]] I now turn to Mrs Leroy, Mrs Slegers and Mrs Vanrobaeys. I see that Mrs Depoorter also wishes to take the floor as well as Mrs Thémont.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u7	Mr President, Madam Minister, as we have had the opportunity many times to discuss it in the Committee on Social Affairs, this parental leave designed specifically for this period of crisis was requested from the beginning of the confinement by the League of Families, with the aim of enabling parents and single-parent families to combine professional imperatives and family life management. It did take time for this leave to generate general enthusiasm, and I know that you did everything you could to bring it to life. However, we regret two essential elements. First of all, this leave is not a right but requires the agreement of the employer. We understand, of course, that it is difficult for an employer to cope with an influx of requests for leave within an extremely short period of time, but we thought that this leave would be accompanied by several beacons, particularly with regard to the number of persons authorised to benefit from it within a company. Indeed, it is up to us that many employers refuse this leave to their staff, who are forced to resort to traditional parental leave. Second, the allowance: this parental leave is clearly not sufficient, even if it has been slightly increased compared to the traditional leave. It is a reality that we must hear. Care should be taken to ensure that families are not in situations of stress and intense fatigue today because, having not had access to this leave, they have continued to operate a little clumsyly; they could finally reach a point of strength and nerves around the end of August, at the beginning of September. Moreover, we must not forget that more traditional activities will have to be resumed at a more normal pace. We fear that families, parents, will be exhausted by the time they have just lived. That is also what we wanted this leave to respond to. The conclusion of all this work may be a necessary revision of parental leave. I've already said, we've been working on this special coronavirus leave. We have seen the difficulties. In fact, parental leave should really be considered in the redeployment phase, the one most discussed, the post-COVID-19 phase. We would benefit from ensuring that parents can, in a calm and effective manner, resume both the more traditional professional rhythm, school follow-up and support for children. I am proposing this because, rather than taking stock of what already exists, I would like to look at the prospects.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u8	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are very pleased that the corona parenthood is here. As far as we are concerned, the Minister has listened carefully to the needs and has also made an arrangement adapted to the various questions, tailored to the needs of all families. For foster parents it is accessible, but also for parents with children with disabilities, or for those who have been working with their employer for one month. Moreover, there is a temporary increase in the benefit during corona parental leave and it is also flexible. It is not charged on the ordinary credit. We are therefore happy to give the Minister a compliment because she has picked up the signals and put them through. This, along with a series of other measures, will undoubtedly give breathing space to a whole number of families for the next few months. One more question from the field has reached me. Can this be combined with other interruptions, such as medical leave or palliative leave? This would lead to a situation in which people would find themselves in a complete suspension of their working time due to the accumulation of different measures. Thank you, Madam Minister, for answering this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u9	The N-VA Group will support this RB. We have spoken critically about certain issues, including in committee. It's gonna stay that way. I'll raise some issues. However, I would like to say first of all that it is a good thing that a measure has been taken for certain parents who work at home and care for children is very difficult. There is an answer to this. Contrary to a number of colleagues who have just spoken, it was very important for the N-VA Group that it should be done in consultation with the employer. We are therefore very pleased that this aspect has been taken into account. One of my colleagues mentioned that it would be easier if it were a right, such as parental leave. It is also a very difficult period for the employer. It is very good that there is a consensus in the context of this Corona parental leave. The N-VA Group is also very pleased that corona parental leave is taken away for foster parents. People in long-term foster care have as many tasks as other parents. We are therefore convinced that, like other parents, they are equally entitled to this corona leave. We also refer here to the bill tabled by the N-VA Group to open regular, thematic parental leave to foster parents. As already mentioned, the N-VA Group is critical of the 25% increase in the remuneration. For the parents who are now eligible, this will have come. Corona has had an impact for all of us, and for a lot of families. However, we are warning against the fall in unemployment which might arise. Those concerned will now receive 25% more compensation. On top of that comes the Flemish incentive premium. Madam Minister, we will have to ensure that after the present period people can take up their duties again and take them comfortably, but we will also have to keep an eye on the level of activity of our people. We would like to warn against this. I have a question on that. What measures will you take to prevent improper use of corona parental leave? I have another question. Madam Minister, it is very good that parents of children over the age of 21 who have disabilities can now also apply for corona parental leave. Nevertheless, one passage is unclear to us. This is the following passage of the Royal Decree: "if a child or adult with a disability is taken care of by his parents if he enjoys an in-house or extra-mural service or treatment organized or recognized by the Communities'. That passage is rather unclear for us. The question is actually the following. Can parental leave also be taken while the child is in the facility full-time, for example in order to carry out different visits, or does it only apply when the child is being cared for at home? After all, these children have a very high need for care. We support the measure. However, we would like to have a clarification for people in that particular situation. Madam Minister, in addition to my two questions, I can say in summary that we will support the royal decision, but that we have certain reservations, which we had already raised. In particular, it is a positive measure for us, which we will now implement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u10	Madam Minister, we too will support this measure on corona parental leave. We do, however, have a number of questions and reservations. We have had to wait a long time for parental leave, but this is an answer for the many parents who have been juggling telework, pre-teaching, household and children's education for several weeks. We particularly welcome the inclusion of foster parents in this Corona Parental Leave scheme. Foster parents have the same concerns as parents. They take those kids in their families. We will therefore table a legislative proposal to extend parental leave to foster parents in full. It is also good that the age condition for children with disabilities was released. After all, many people were fully committed to the care of their child with disabilities, because they had to choose between placing the child in an institution for the whole period or taking care of it at home. We also agree that it was extended until the end of August. The schools in Flanders open at the beginning of June but this is only partial, sometimes up to four days a week. For preschoolers it is complete, but not yet for primary education. There will therefore have to be further pre-teaching. However, we do not understand the different recording modes, one tenth, one fifth or half-time. Why can't it be recorded full-time? Many parents recorded their holidays at the beginning of the lockdown. Now, of course, there must also be a whole puzzle in the summer holidays, in addition to the problems that still exist with pre-teaching, with regard to the care of children. Some youth camps take place, but I read that not all children can go to camp. Maybe there's less room. Parents have to put a puzzle there as well. It would be good to go to full-time recording so that parents do not lose the holidays they have taken during the first few weeks but can take them during the summer holidays through a corona parental leave, but in full-time form. We also regret that workers working part-time do not have the opportunity to take corona parental leave. Regardless of the form in which people worked, full-time care was needed. It was very difficult, especially for single parents, to combine all the tasks within the family. So we also understand parents who say they want full-time parental leave for a while to be able to cope. We also wonder why, for the holidays, an ongoing time loan, with the motive of caring for the children, cannot be temporarily converted to corona parental leave. Certainly people with children with disabilities have exhausted their parental leave and had to switch to a time loan with that motive. In fact, these people should also have the opportunity to rely on the corona parental leave that is not charged on their full credit. Finally, it is indeed a good thing that the benefit was increased by 25%. That will make the system much more accessible. We believe that it is not yet accessible to all families. It has to be ensured that it does not become an impossible puzzle for families who now have low incomes, both for the weeks of the lockdown and pre-teaching, and for the holiday period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u11	Madam Minister, we insisted that a solution be found for the parents who, during this period, had so much difficulty reconciling their family life with their work. Of course, we welcome and support this initiative, which takes the form of a coronavirus parental leave. However, my group would have liked to go further – as has been said – by making it accessible to as many people as possible. As such, we have tabled a bill to improve this leave. The first regret we can express is that this is not a real right for the worker, since he will have to obtain the agreement of his employer each time. Families who are deprived of them are most often in a complicated situation. That is why we believe that they should not be left on the side. Secondly, we regret that this leave can only be taken at half-time or, in some cases, at 20%. Since parents cannot benefit from it on a full-time basis, this obviously poses problems – especially for single-parent families who cannot have their child cared for, even part-time. In addition, this leave is only available to full-time or three-quarters-time workers. This means that part-time workers are excluded. However, they are also experiencing difficulties. As my colleague from Sp.a said, although this allowance for workers on coronavirus leave has been increased by 25% – following one of our proposals tabled in Kern – this is still insufficient, especially for the most disadvantaged households who unfortunately will not be able to afford this leave. We would therefore like to review this measure and try to upgrade it so that it corresponds to temporary unemployment. Finally, the question was also raised as to whether this leave could already be extended until 31 December 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u12	Minister, it is obviously a good decision that has long been expected by many families, especially single-parent families and those who share custody of their children. You have already partially answered many of my questions. I have one left. Could you explain how this will happen in practice if parents have had to resort urgently to regular parental leave? How will the changeover be made to the special parental leave VOCID-19?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u13	Madam Minister, of course we are also very pleased with the regulation before us today. However, I have a specific specific question, which I have already put in writing through the committee: why has it not been chosen to work out a full-time scheme for parents with a disabled child who have had to take that child out of a care facility and who have taken care of it full-time since the corona crisis began? Could you briefly explain that, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u14	I think everyone's been able to ask their questions. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your many questions. They are not new; we have dealt with them several times during the topical debates on the corona crisis. Often reference is made to the nine weeks. We have worked for a very long time on a different system, especially aimed at single parents, because there was a great need for it then, especially when it appeared that education would not start again until a very late stage. That is why we have looked at the planning more widely. By the way, we have worked very well with the Family Union and with the Ligue des famililes and have tried to achieve a good settlement. It was asked why the measure is not a right and is based only on voluntaryity. In the ordinary systems of parental leave today, which are also included in many sectoral agreements and collective agreements, there is, quite rightly, the possibility for the employer to postpone six months after the application has been submitted. We have worked on a voluntary system here. This is a matter of a few days on a voluntary basis (the employer's agreement is required) and not of the six months normally provided for parental leave. We have been working on a system that could be switched off very quickly. We feel that there is a need for an arrangement in many families. Similarly, there is no delay here either, with a view to a proper organisation of work after the restart of the activities. I am also told in other committees that it is important that people return to work as flexibly as possible. A good balance needs to be struck between the need to get workers back to work as soon as possible and the needs of many families to be able to combine child care with telework. That is why our choice has been made on a system that is very quickly accessible, while at the same time the employer voluntarily chooses to join it. There are also a lot of questions about the benefit. I repeat once again that it is a question of 440 euros per month and 724 euros per month for an isolated parent. This is 25% more than the average benefit. I think it was also important to give that signal. Mrs Thémont asked for the scheme to be completely equal to temporary unemployment. If we had done so, we would have had to raise a great deal of benefits, including unemployment benefits and benefits for all other thematic leave, to temporary unemployment benefits. That option is very difficult, also budgetary, and we have not chosen to do so. We have tried to ensure that people's income in all systems is maintained in the best possible way, through the systems of temporary unemployment, the 70% and the additional EUR 5.63. I believe that we have found a good balance, so that workers can temporarily retain their basic income as much as possible. Why part-time and fifth-time, and not full-time? Allow me to be very clear. The normal systems of parental leave remain in place. It is perfectly possible today to take full-time parental leave. In the normal system of parental leave, those working part-time can also take part-time parental leave, which means a full-time break from work. It is also possible today for two parents to take the corona parental leave. Everyone can take it, in a family. It is also possible to find a solution in this way. I understand all kinds of family problems and I am very concerned about, for example, single parents with a child with disabilities, all the more so because some institutions still do not start up or provide shelter. With the system we have tried to provide the best possible solutions. I would point out, however, that there is also a responsibility for local authorities and the Communities and the Regions. Choices have been made to reboot education and childcare fragmentary and gradual. We are looking at the Communities and the local authorities to make the necessary efforts in the context of reception. I was once a young mommy of two children who once again had to bridge nine weeks each summer with their own holiday activities, playground operations, camps, youth movement activities and others. I know how hard that is every year. We must not just seek the solution in the system of parental leave, because there are many other systems. I hope that the other entities, the local authorities, the education sector, the Communities and the Regions, will take full responsibility for this. Mrs Vanrobaeys and Mrs Galant had questions about the transition from one system of parental leave to corona parental leave and vice versa. There is no problem for those who took half-time or 1/5th parental leave. The normal parental leave is stopped and corona-parental leave is transferred to the normal system. A number of colleagues said that some people save 1/10th time to take a longer period during holiday periods. It is perfectly possible to interrupt this scheme today and opt for a different break, for example 1/5th or half of the 10th birthday period does not exist in the corona parental leave period, so that after the holiday you can re-enter 1/10th until the holiday periods next year. We're gonna get those questions, too. One can perfectly restart where one stopped and move back to the scheme according to the old fracture, 1/10th or whatever it was in the previous system. I think that's obvious, too. Mrs Slegers asked whether the combination with other welfare systems, such as palliative leave, would be possible. That's not possible today. The possibility of combining two systems does not exist today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u16	Madam Secretary, I may be wrong, but I do not think you have answered my question as to whether Corona leave can be taken while the child is in the institution full-time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u17	You're right. Excuse me. Today there must be a link to the institution. That link isn't defined. It may be that the child is taken care of in the week. It can also only be picked up during the day or there may be a combination. The only condition that we attach to taking corona parental leave is that there is a link with an institution recognised by the Communities. You also had a question about abuse. It's no different with other systems. It is a voluntary scheme, and anyone who resorts to it also deserves less than when working out. But you may refer to the fact that people would take parental leave to carry out other activities or to carry out work that the tax authorities cannot see, or to carry out other independent activities. The Social Inspectorate will, of course, continue to monitor the scheme, both in response to a complaint and proactively, as it does for ordinary parental leave, time credits or thematic leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Your answers gave us a little bit of what we already know. We know that the allowance for a single-parent family is more than 700 euros. This is in line with the logic of allocations in general. When you're in a couple or alone, the pay isn't the same. But this does not prevent trade union criticism of this. In terms of purchasing power, in general, this does not meet the needs properly. I would like to react to the voluntary aspect of the measure. Your explanation does not answer the problem on the ground. In several sectors or companies, the balance of power is not always favourable to workers. Since this decision must be approved by the employer, the voluntary basis is questionable. This is not a choice for the worker. He doesn't always have a choice. The employer may refuse to do so, since it is not mandatory and it is not a right. This leaves the employer some interpretation. He can simply refuse. And if the worker doesn't have the power to take parental leave...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u19	That is true, but in the normal system, the employer also has six months to delay the leave. That's his right. The employer always has the right to delay work organisation by six months. It's in the system. Here, we chose a voluntary system, that's right. But it's a system you can enter after three days. It is voluntary, but very flexible and very fast. In law, it's six months. The employer has six months to refuse and delay the date of entry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u20	I agree with you on this point: in the normal context, his right extends to six months. That should have been the objective of the royal decree. In this case, it is a matter of a few days, but there is no guarantee that the application will be accepted. As with other measures, this situation has an aspect of force majeure. For example, Horeca employers had no choice, as they had to close down their establishments. When, in the midst of an epidemic, no other solution exists for the custody of children, we are in the presence of a case of force majeure. Even if the organization of the company is disrupted, this corresponds to the urgency experienced in other sectors. Therefore, the employer must accept the application. Although this is a right, there is no need to resort to the statutory six months. In the event of force majeure, the time limit may be reduced to three days, but this may not be based on a voluntary basis. This, in any case, is my position, which is based on what has been applied in other branches.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u21	Madam Minister, I would just like to make sure that the Council of State's opinions were taken into account. The question was whether the involvement of volunteers would also be appropriate in profitable organisations in other healthcare sectors, as the scheme would otherwise be contrary to the principle of equality. Does this also apply to non-residential facilities, such as day care? Should temporary unemployment as an exclusion criterion apply only to functions for which volunteers are employed? Will it be included that volunteers will also be covered by the compensation fund for victims of COVID-19?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u22	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, with respect to this proposal, we ourselves had been the basis of a request to that effect by tabling a bill, along with my colleagues in the PS. We therefore fully support this measure, bearing in mind that it is quite exceptional, linked to the crisis of the VOCID-19, and that it provides an equally exceptional and temporary solution with regard to volunteering. The idea is to allow rest homes, health centres, day centres, reception centres, etc. which are approved by the Regions and Communities and which are for profit to be able to make use of volunteers. I stress that this measure must be limited in time. We therefore fully support this measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u23	Madam Minister, we have little or no comments on the substance of the matter and also on the legal side. The Council of State also notes that this royal decision is satisfactory. This measure has been and has been necessary for a long time. For us, therefore, the most important question is why this has been so long overdue. We are now more than seven weeks after the entry into force on 1 May and for a long time since the peak of the corona crisis. Yet this royal decree is only now coming. Madam Secretary, why has it taken so long for this measure to come?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u24	Madam Minister, the Royal Decree defines a temporary relaxation of the conditions under which volunteers can be employed. The aim is to cover staff shortages so that staff shortages can be addressed in times of crisis. This royal decree was the subject of the opinion of the Council of State. This measure allows a retirement home to put staff on temporary unemployment and replace them with volunteers. In addition, a combination of temporary unemployment and volunteering is also allowed. If this is a temporary measure, we can approve it. We understand that it is the intention to absorb a peak. However, we ask ourselves what need this royal decision responds to, and we would have liked more explanation. We would like to warn that this should remain a temporary measure and should not be a precedent. I remind you of the situation of the paramedics. Several ambulances work in employment for bvba's and also as volunteers for non-profit organisations, founded by the same employer. Thus, these ambulances perform an almost unlimited number of hours at very low fees. We want to avoid such situations in commercial homes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u25	Anyone else asking for the floor? [[No.]] Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a temporary arrangement which can be used from 1 May. That must then find its way, with the opinions and also decisively. Mrs Gijbels asked if this is only for residential care centres. It's not that. We have taken into account the recommendation of the Council of State and have included in the decision that there may be recognised forms in the various Community legislation which do not necessarily coincide with a ROB or RVT. Thus, a generic definition is used which includes all the services in question, including day centres and service centres. What if these volunteers are infected with COVID-19? We have the Royal Decree No. 22 to set up a voluntary compensation fund. This also applies to volunteers who would be covered by the decision to extend the scope of the Law of 3 July 2005. This fund will grant a flat-rate allowance to survivors of volunteers who would die on COVID-19. Mrs Vanrobaeys asked why we deviate from the principle that volunteering is only possible in the non-profit sector. Why did we extend this here? The special circumstances in the framework of COVID-19 justify the very temporary exception to this basic principle of the Voluntary Act. The concern for residents in the event of a shortage of regular staff is a legitimate reason, as it is essential in this sector to ensure employment. We are aware of the difficulties facing the sector. As Ms. Tillieux said, it is temporary, but it was a bill that opened up the possibility of recruiting volunteers in nursing homes if there were not enough staff to provide the necessary care for the residents. So they also receive the benefit. Liability, insurance, reimbursement of costs and labour law are also regulated. Since the situation is still not quite calm, we are also working on an extension until 1 September 2020. In the sector, we see that people are still sick, in recovery, not only from a disease but also from fatigue. There are also absences for other reasons. That is why we have been asked to prepare this measure. It remains temporary. This is a truly exceptional measure, but it is necessary to support the staff of nursing homes during this period of coronavirus. Mr President, this will not therefore be ratified by law either, since the measure will not have a long-term life.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u27	Are there any questions about this royal decision? [[No.]] Then we can conclude this discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u28	Are there any questions about this? [[No, no, ……]] Then I consider the KB No. 19 as discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u29	Mr President, the opinion of the Council of State stated that the use of the Sciensano database, which falls within my federal competence, should be a legal basis, in particular a cooperation agreement between the Länder and the federal government. It is actually a cooperation agreement between the Länder, but because it is a federal bank, my signature is also required. That's not an easy assignment. We've been working on that for a while. The reform of the state is not legally simple. The Special Powers Decision No. 18 was no longer applicable from 4 June and therefore there was no legal basis. According to the Council of State, therefore, a cooperation agreement had to be drawn up as soon as possible. At the time, a special power decision was adopted with a limited duration of one month, after which more solid legislation would have to be drawn up. Now there's a new scenario. We must avoid a legal vacuum. But it usually takes two years to get a cooperation agreement approved by all assemblies through the Inter-Ministerial Conference. It is quite a challenge to make that happen much faster. An interfederal IKW has also been launched at the IMC Public Health, which deals with the content of that cooperation agreement. The next steps for both legislative proposals on tracing are to develop the procedures relating to the database and the app. That's another way of working, after the Council of State's advice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u30	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, thank you for giving us a statement of the situation. Two bills are pending, one before the Public Health Commission and the other before the Economy Commission. To the Sciensano data bank bill, amendments have been tabled by some parliamentarians, including myself. The Royal Decree which we are dealing with today, which extends the Royal Decree of Special Powers No. 18, reproduces the text of the said Royal Decree No. 18. What is the role of the federal government, whether through intercabinets or through the ministers concerned, in the preparation of this cooperation agreement? Will you – you or your representatives – make good use of the amendments that have been tabled to improve these texts, to respond to the criticisms of the Data Protection Authority? I would, of course, like that to be the case, and that the resolution that was adopted on implementation, as well as the bill with all the amendments that have been tabled, be used in discussions with the federated entities in the preparation of these two cooperation agreements, one on the Sciensano database and the other on implementation. The second question that comes to mind when we speak of a cooperation agreement is that are we sure that the idea of databases in each Region or of different applications in each Region is abandoned? Is the purpose of the cooperation agreement good for all this to be pooled? This is to avoid data exchange problems for people living in one Region and working or shopping in another Region. For the data banks, it may be simpler, but if an application is to be implemented, we really need to make sure that there is the same one at national level. That is my third question. In another area, itsme application has been retained by the Federal State for identification. Through this cooperation agreement, is there any way that the Regions can give a mission to the Federal State to launch a market with a view to having a single application for the whole Belgian territory? It's also an issue. Even at European level, there are attempts to have a European application. Fortunately, the Commission has developed the European toolbox and has adopted the DP3T protocol that most protects privacy and private data. Most data is stored on a decentralized server. But the ideal would be to have at least one application for the whole Belgian territory. Do you support this approach? Is this the policy of the federal level in the discussions for the development of this cooperation agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u31	Madam Minister, like my colleague, I hope that the work that has been done in recent weeks on the Sciensano database will allow us to come to a mature reflection on the drafting of this cooperation agreement. In this regard, Minister, I would like to commend your involvement and pragmatism on this complex issue. Our institutional lasagna means that we need a lot of energy to achieve a common sense of our projects. Today, we have shown that we are able to work together when we face a crisis situation. It is therefore necessary to arrive at a solution that holds the road. Nevertheless, we hope that the discussions on this cooperation agreement will help to respond to the many criticisms expressed by the Data Protection Authority regarding the protection of privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u32	Minister, this Royal Order No. 25 is an extension of Royal Order No. 18. Given that the Sciensano database is now the subject of legislative proposals, the Council of State has decided that the search for contacts – in other words, the legal framework around the above-mentioned database – is a competence of the Regions. The Council of State also stated that the bill required a cooperation agreement between the Regions and the federal government. The opinion of the Council of State has far-reaching implications because it means that Royal Decrees Nos. 18 and 25 are contrary to the Constitution. This opinion also shows the institutional fragmentation of our country and the need for full federalization of health care. Last week, an interdepartmental conference was held to discuss a possible cooperation agreement. Furthermore, no advice was sought from the Council of State with regard to Royal Decree No. 18, due to lack of time. It has therefore become clear that this is a regional competence. Minister, why was the Council of State not asked earlier to give an opinion on the royal orders? How can it be explained that it became clear only last week that this competence fell to the Regions, so that it was necessary to conclude a cooperation agreement for the establishment of this database? Apparently, this fact was ignored at all levels of power. This demonstrates the full cacophony inherent in our constitutional system. Then what was the decision of last week's Interdepartmental Conference? Can you confirm that a cooperation agreement will be drawn up for contact tracing? If so, will it only focus on the Sciensano database or on a possible coronavirus application? What position did the federal government and the Regions take as a result of the discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u33	Madam Minister, like my colleagues, I want a little more clarity on the status of the texts under discussion last week. A report of the Council of State was then issued, prior to the conclusion of a cooperation agreement. Given the disparity between the two texts on which it is based, what will be the legal basis and the status of the two? Finally, in what form can any comments made in the Committee on Public Health be answered later?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u34	Madam Secretary, I am on the same page as the other speakers. So I'll keep it very general. Madam Minister, what is the cooperation agreement, which is a condition for the system to enter into force, the position of the sub-governments? To what extent does the cooperation agreement and the follow-up of the texts take account of the comments made by the Data Protection Authority? There were a large number of comments about the differences and the text. Will the comments made in committee also be taken into account?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u35	Are there any other speakers? [[No, no, ……]] Madam Secretary, I am happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. The Council of State, through its opinion, leaves little for the federal level. This is only about scientific research and Sciensano himself, which does epidemiological research on the recorded data. The Communities are responsible for preventive health care. There must therefore be a cooperation agreement between the Communities, but since the database is a federal competence, I must join in. It is the federated entities that must agree with each other in a cooperation agreement. What have we proposed? Or they themselves have to create a data bank, which would really not be easy because it takes a lot of time or they can use the one of Sciensano that is well provided and that works well. For this, and this is what the Council of State has said, they must conclude a cooperation agreement on testing and tracing, and if possible on enforcement. Here too, I agree with Mrs Gilson that it would be better to have an application that is the same throughout the country, otherwise it becomes ridiculous. Imagine you with three or four different applications when moving around the country! That would be difficult. To that end, too, we have given our support. It is in the Interministerial Conference that the discussion is to take place. I am currently the Chair and its secretariat is provided by the Public Health FPS. We said that in order to move forward – which is really not simple – we would first seek the advice of two lawyers to see in which direction the federated entities can conclude the cooperation agreement. This is the discussion we had at the ICD last week. The two lawyers told us that this was actually the only solution. It's now clear. Secondly, there is also the crisis cell where Christian Decoster, who is a pensioner, sits. He is thinking about how we can move forward legally. Mrs Gilson, you're asking what the federal role is. He doesn't have one. They have to decide between themselves. All we offer is the Sciensano database, which gives the possibility to make use of it. The agreement is between the federated entities. Of course, we must take into account the opinion that has been given by ODA. You are asking if a delegation to the federal state is possible. No, the opinion is clear. It is not possible to give a delegation to the federal state. There is a need for an agreement between federated entities. Mrs Tillieux, you say there is a lot of information. I am sure that among them, in the group that is drawing up this cooperation agreement, they have taken into account everything that has been noted and said. Mr. Boukili, is that already there? No. We said last week that as soon as we have a basic text, we could go back to the Interministerial Conference to tell us what it contains and to see if it is mature or still needs to be adapted, in order to be sure that the cooperation agreement exists. After that they must go to all the assemblies, including that of the German-speaking Community. Mrs H annoyance, what is the status of the texts? We have not yet seen the final texts. They have advanced in the drafting of this text and an update will probably be provided on Wednesday morning or Friday. It's not yet acquired. Mrs Vanrobaeys, the Community has an effective centre of gravity. The GBA's opinions state that the finality of scientific research should not be specifically regulated in the draft law as the relevant provisions of the privacy law on research are sufficient. The GBA therefore recommends deleting the provisions on the framework of the investigation in both proposals. The role of the federal level appears to be very limited, because in practice the data is only centralized at Sciensano. As far as the app is concerned, I have already said that there is quite a single app for the whole country. But it is up to them to intervene, if an application can help us. Of course, an application will not replace tracking. We know that. Indeed, if we look at the countries around us, we can see that this is not enough to have a solid tracking or tracing system. But it seems obvious to me that they have to opt, as far as possible, for the same application, otherwise it will take too long. As far as Europe is concerned, discussions are under way at this level, but this is not clear at the moment. Some European countries already have applications, even if they are not numerous. In any case, we do not have any illusions: it is very unlikely that Europe will propose an application for all European countries. Indeed, Europe has few skills at this level. It can also be seen that privacy laws are different in almost all European countries, where they exist, since some are not yet in force. Our country must work on the matter itself. Mrs Gilson, you have asked me about the role of the federal government in the preparation, and I will tell you that we are bringing the tool that is the Sciensano database. For the rest, it is up to them to agree. But we wanted to help. Indeed, having a database is essential for testing and tracing. When you test and don't have the data, you don't know how to do much. In any case, one cannot identify the homes of any new infections. It is therefore a difficult delivery, if I may say so, to remain with the Committee on Health. It is certainly a challenge, knowing that we have appointed two lawyers from the FPS Health Department, to get through the legal grievances of the division of powers and their solution. It is a good thing that this has been cleared up, there was no discussion about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u37	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Are there any replies to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u38	Madam Minister, thank you for these explanations. I understood that the Regions had to work together to draft the text and that the federal level was a bit on the balcony. When the text of the cooperation agreement is completed, Parliament will have to give its consent. Since your representatives are participating in these meetings, it seems to me important that you can highlight the concerns that have been formalized by Parliament in the amendments to the Sciensano bill. I take as an example the prohibition of the crossing and linkage of databases or the failure to keep data for 30 years after the patient's death, even in pseudonymized form. It is known that pseudonymization is not anonymization and there is no need for a legal provision to allow the retention of anonymous data. It was anticipated that the pseudonymized data would be retained for 30 years after the death of the person, but after amendments had been tabled, this period had been reduced. As Chair of the Interdepartmental Conference, and even though the Regions are the ones who write the Co-operation Agreement, it is very important that you can highlight these privacy concerns. In the same way, amendments have been made to the proposed law on enforcement, designed to prevent personal data such as the name or telephone number of the person confirmed positive to VOCID-19 from being disclosed at the time the contamination information is encoded in the application. Minister, I imagine that the protection of privacy is as important to you as it is to me, as liberals. Of course, there are medical requirements. You know them better than I do because of your training as a doctor. But all these requirements to limit the spread of the virus must be reconciled at best with respect for privacy. I really think that the texts, with all the amendments, are a basis that can be passed on to the two lawyers chosen by the ministry and to the Regions. As President of the Interdepartmental Conference, you can insist that it be taken into account. Thus, when the texts of the two cooperation agreements (one on the data bank, the other on the application) arrive in Parliament, we will be really pleased to see that parliamentary work has been used validly by the Interministerial Conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u39	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for her commitment and pragmatism. We have little time to move towards a cooperation agreement and we hope that this agreement will take into account the criticisms made by the Data Protection Authority. I will also stress the need to protect privacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u40	Ms. Gilson, you said that the two lawyers had been appointed by the department, but that is incorrect. Indeed, they were designated by the ICD (Interdepartmental Conference). In Europe, there are different ways in which contacts can be detected and traced. As far as GDPR is concerned, there is more convergence as it is a mandatory regulation in all European countries. Nevertheless, I want all future actions and initiatives to be taken in a privacy-friendly manner. For us, it is unthinkable to create an application to determine whether two people have been in contact, whether this application is not essential for monitoring the spread of the virus in our country. For this reason, for example, the data retained should be limited. In my view, lawyers will certainly take into account everything that has been done in the House.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u41	Madam Minister, of course we welcome the withdrawal of these two royal decrees. If they had some motivation at the beginning, they turned out – at the time of their publication – to be completely out of step with the reality of the field. As far as the right of requisition is concerned, the health-care personnel have indeed remained standing throughout the crisis, despite the difficult conditions. With regard to the delegation of nursing tasks to other providers, through short training, this was a real threat to the quality of care. In addition, it was felt as a depreciation of the caregivers' work. How can we act in the future, Minister? There will be a need to work more together and to ensure adequate protective equipment. Similarly, psychological care should be taken care of for all those who will need it in view of all that they have given during this long period. This means allowing more nurses to be present at the patient's bedside thanks to the White Blouses Fund. Finally, the land is waiting for an upgrading of the profession, particularly in terms of wages. In this regard, you informed us that negotiations should begin this week. We hope that they will succeed. That's the message I wanted to get you through.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u42	Madam Minister, in the same vein, it is clear that these two orders have, if you can say so, suffered from a major timing problem. Of course, if you hadn't taken them, you would have been blamed. Fortunately, a month later, the situation in hospitals calmed down. However, the health care staff remained on the bridge and obviously took these texts very badly, which were arriving on the wrong track. These two orders should have been part of a pandemic plan, an arsenal of concerted action at the start of a future crisis. It is known that in the event of a crisis, these two orders can be taken in a concerted manner and the substance of which is understood by all. In the future, it is hoped that they will no longer have to be resumed by the end of the year because the crisis is still not over. You have to know that. On the other hand, as far as nurses are concerned, what is going on at this stage with white coats and promises of upgrading should not be measures taken as part of a post-COVID. There is a real need for comprehensive consideration. It is a plan that must be negotiated, for which I invite you to take the time to negotiate, listen to it and not to go too fast in the measures that will be taken to ensure that they are of quality, recognized as essential and priority for the healthcare staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u43	Mr President, the Royal Decrees presented today are intended to withdraw Royal Decrees Nos. 9 and 16. There is no doubt that the minister wanted to introduce these royal orders as a precautionary principle. No one doubts it, but it is important to point out that, if the capacity of the care was under strong pressure, these orders caused a lot of reactions and a real legitimate malaise within the sector. Today, the concertation leads to the withdrawal of the royal decrees, and that is a very good thing. History is a teaching. Who knows the job and its difficulties better than the field? The future must go through consultation. My group is therefore pleased that things are now coming to fruition. It is clear that steps must be taken to support staff who are at the front. Unfortunately, this measure has come too late and has legitimately aroused a great deal of emotion. To support this hospital or extramural nursing staff, it is important that this is done through the attractiveness of the profession. And I have no doubt for a moment that the government in place has taken on the task, in consultation with the sector, with a concern for listening, respect and recognition for everything that has been done during this pandemic and especially at the peak of the pandemic. Now things are going to move forward. The sector is fully aware of this. Let us stick together, move together among democratic parties and give concrete answers to those who have made our country shine at a time when daily life was difficult for many of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u44	Mrs. Tillieux, I'm surprised. You forgot why these two royal orders were taken. In fact, we listened to the alarm cry, during a Kern plus OCC, from Minister-President Di Rupo and Mr Vervoort who supported it. They said there were major problems with lack of staff, nursing assistants, but also nurses, mainly in nursing homes. I remember that Mr. Di Rupo had already asked the governors to give a list of everything the sector needed in the five provinces. On April 9, we received a list of nurses, caregivers, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, logopedes, psychologists, doctors, masks, gloves, protective goggles, thermometers. Then we wondered where we were going to find them. Why not requisition staff in mutual societies, in administrations with doctors and medical professionals? We knew that even with the help of the army, if things got worse, we didn't have enough people. They did a good job, but they could have been better prepared. It was the 4th of May. We worked all weekend to make these royal orders. It was clear that two of them were needed. First the requisition, then the second, to have the opportunity to delegate certain tasks under supervision. This was done on May 4, and published. Between April 9 and May 4, we actually went through the peak. The circumstances were not so bad at the time. There were still many sick people in hospitals and nursing homes, but we knew that we were starting to see the curve come down. When we received the alarm cry and made the decision, the curve was still rising. Their publication has led to a significant social malaise. There was a need for sustainable measures and a new agreement with the non-market. We have begun this consultation in the meantime. The unions asked for a signal which, according to them, had to take the form of the withdrawal of these two royal decrees. Since the decision was taken by the Kern extended to the ten party presidents who support us in these exceptional measures, a decision by this enlarged Kern was obviously necessary to withdraw these decrees. I asked the unions if it was the date of publication that was problematic or the content. Mr. Hellendorff made it clear that he had a problem with the date. I then asked him to consider the situation in the event of a second wave of which, of course, the magnitude cannot be assessed. I would like to draw attention here to studies carried out in Liège and Antwerp according to which a large part of the health care staff are tired, exhausted and wonder about their future; in a first survey, 13% of respondents wondered whether they would stay in the profession. Today, we have the White Blouse Fund and a series of provisions to increase attractiveness. But you have to find the students, and you have to train them. We also proposed the Training 600 project, but we need to find the right people. So far, the money we have obtained from the White Blouse Fund has not been used because the necessary nurses could not be recruited, due to the lack of attractiveness of the profession, especially in the geriatric sector and nursing homes. This is a structural problem that is not in any way linked to the crisis. Even yesterday, I took part in a debate in Ghent, without any public of course. There were representatives of a union but also of rest homes. They confirmed that the great difficulty is the lack of attractiveness of the trade. All suggestions are welcome today, and I hope of course not to have to deal with hundreds of requests from doctors and nurses that I cannot find. During the crisis, we had to be inventive. Thus, the many nurses in occupational medicine – my brother is a doctor at work – who were supposed to stay at home during confinement could be assigned to VOCID-19 units, for example. Similarly, in hospitals, many regular surgical services have been transformed into VOCID-19 units and, again, staff have adapted. I withdrew those orders because that was the signal the unions needed. I also recall that Mrs Onkelinx had taken the same royal decrees in 2009. It is known that there are currently 5,000 vacancies for nurses. It's not nothing! It is also known that more people leave because of illness or retirement than young nurses who engage. It is true that it took five weeks before the publication and that there were misunderstandings about the content. Fortunately, in the meantime, circumstances have improved. I also remember a different interpretation on topical questions in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u45	Minister, I agree with you that you have not been able to make this decision on your own. It was taken with the Kern and the ten parties. It would not be fair to name you alone responsible for these two royal decrees. Instead of criticizing these royal decrees later because there was a social protest, it would have been necessary to think before and not to sign them. You told us that Messrs. Di Rupo and Vervoort were at the base of these royal decrees. On this point, I am on your side, it is unfair to throw the stone at you. On the other hand, I do not agree with you on the substance of these royal orders. There is no justification for this logic, as health workers have invested 200 per cent in this crisis and have given everything. It was thanks to him and his efforts that we emerged from this crisis. It is a lack of respect to propose a requisition of nursing staff and to entrust tasks of nurses – who have a four-year training – to staff who are not trained for. This is an insult to medical staff and these royal orders had no place in this crisis. I've heard you talk about the lack of attractiveness of the trade and the shortage of staff. This is not surprising because it has been years since this staff called the alarm in the light of working conditions and the lack of equipment and staff. In addition, burn outs are common and wages are insufficient. This will never be attractive! It's getting worse and worse. If you want the trade to be attractive, make a salary increase in the sector; hire staff by providing decent and dignified working conditions. The majority of caregivers complain that they do not have the opportunity and the means to do their job properly, to treat patients well. That is why the profession is not attractive. People who want to do this work want to do it right, bring more to our society and treat patients. But if they do not have the necessary means, the work cannot be attractive, especially since they have wages of misery. If you want this profession to be attractive, there is a whole series of measures for which the hospital sector has been advocating, fighting for years and which must be put in place. We must stop cutting out of the Health budget, but instead invest in this sector. Staff must be hired through decent working conditions and decent wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u46	Mr Boukili, let me tell you that you have not listened well to everything I have said. But maybe it's because you didn't intend to intervene. That being said, I have always said that the staff had done everything possible and that they had worked 200% to save the patients. It is for this reason that some members of this staff are now really physically ill. These people are exhausted. They fear that they will no longer be able to cope with a possible second wave that they are afraid to see coming. This is included in the investigation that was conducted. That's why we've been wondering where other nurses could be found. I communicated the lists. But I never said we'd put in hospitals and nursing homes people who had nothing to do with medicine. You say it takes four years; but they are people who have studied for four years and who work in other sectors - administrations and mutualities. They're trained doctors. Yes, they are nurses or doctors who are there! I provided the list. You can find it in the report. I have informed all those involved, i.e. all those in nursing and all medical occupations and not one person performing administrative work. It is dishonest to say this... That's not the case. These are stories. I explained it here. I don't know if you were there or behind your screen, but I gave the whole list to the committee, about all those involved. For all of them, they were medical professions. I think we have taken a lot of steps under the previous legislature and even before me, Mrs Onkelinx, to make the profession more attractive. We reached a major social agreement in 2017. It wasn't that bad because that's what they're now demanding for the years to come. The goal is always to make progress. I've been a doctor for 25 years and I've been a member of the House for 20 years. I know it has always been difficult to make the profession attractive because it is difficult to combine when you have children. Most of these workers are women with a family, and we talk about work weekends, public holidays, 24 hours a day, seven days a week, all year round. It is therefore not obvious to find people. Arriving at a certain age, some people are looking for another activity. It's their choice. Moreover, it has always been difficult: for example, when I was 18 years old, that was already the case. At that time, too many doctors and not enough nurses were present. Forty years later, the situation is the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u47	Minister, yes, the situation has not been making any significant progress for 40 years. I do not claim that no action has been taken, but the gap between the needs of the ground and the measures taken remains enormous. That is why a serious plan must be developed by the federal government to strengthen this sector. In short, the measures taken remain insufficient. And it is certainly not a requisition of the staff that must be decided. We talk about work during the weekend, while family constraints also exist. Before I sat in the House, I worked three weekends a month, but that didn't stop me from doing my job. In sectors where this is also the case, workers did not strike for a year to claim staff, equipment or salary revalorisation. Had it been so, the other branches would have acted in the same way. But that is not exactly what happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u48	Mr President, I wanted to separate the debates. On the one hand, the problem of white blouses is structural. On the other hand, the royal decrees were taken at a specific time, when the peak was reached. We gave our consent, as did the unions – as we consult them as well. I will take the example of Mr Hellendorff, who is a nurse. He hasn't practiced in ten years. Had he had to be requisitioned, he would have done basic technical acts, unlike the nurses who continued their careers. Yes, at that time, it was necessary to requisition nurses from elsewhere. Perhaps these people had to be able to practice the art of infirmating, because at that time there was a health emergency and the army had to intervene in the rest homes. We need to put you back in context. The two debates should not be mixed. There is a structural problem of upgrading and working conditions of health care workers, and a problem of timing. When the order came out, it wasn't the right timing. We had already emerged from the crisis and this was misperceived. In the past, the situation had worsened even further with the VOCID-19. I wish we could restore the truth of what has been done. If the crisis were to recur, unfortunately, I think we would still need requisitions, and we would take exactly the same arrest. At that time, we would also have the support of the unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u49	Mr President, I did not want to argue, on the contrary. Here, we take our responsibilities collectively. The momentum, as my colleague has just said, was simply not the right one, when initially, a month before, needs had been felt and precautions seemed to have to be taken. No controversy about that. They are withdrawn, that is very good and we can congratulate ourselves on that. Above all, we must put forward, again, the courage of these caregivers. If we could strengthen that staff, that would be a good lesson. I hope you, like me, have been able to see caregivers who have proactively made themselves available in nursing homes. They went there as volunteers, they went to give their support, and it is this adaptability and flexibility, necessary in times of crisis, that must be remembered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u50	Madam Minister, when the extremes speak, you say that there is no deafer than the one who does not want to hear! It is clear that you acted as a precautionary principle and that the royal orders arrived at the time when they were no longer expected and when the staff who had been at the front were exhausted after having met the challenges with courage and pride. The fact that these royal orders arrived too late was a signal that was misperceived. We feel, through the speeches of the colleagues of the democratic parties, an understanding of the act you have put forward and a willingness to move forward to bring to this staff what it deserves. Mr President, when I hear the extremes, especially one of them, I have had enough! We're talking about attractiveness, they don't know what attractiveness is. They serve us slogans with total contempt for the health care staff, who in their view represent only a commercial fund. I would like to say that because they go up to the rostrum in plenary session and they invite citizens in turn to protest on the street or to strike for a yes or a no. And it is on the street that they will seek their voices by launching promises and practicing the "only to"! I very much hope that these people will not be responsible for a new peak or second wave that could really bring our health care staff to the ground. This message, I send it and I think it deeply. Last weekend, I worked hard as a mayor to operate today the new phase and implement the decisions made. I know the work that this represents, but it is nothing in relation to the work done by the current government or by the "real" actors on the ground. When one has a minimum of political meaning, one refrains from going to protest because, logically, one must have all the cards in hand and be able to build with others to move forward. Nevertheless, things are not done in a snap of fingers because there are regulations and steps to follow, and we cannot go through.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, everyone has taken the floor on two royal decisions which have been withdrawn. I have noted that at the time when they were issued, there was no fundamental criticism, either on the ground or in the political world. Afterwards and after the announcement, the criticism came that the political field had done a wonderful job, but that this was even more true for the people in the health institutions and in the hospitals, the nurses, the medics and all the aid workers, so that ultimately the royal decisions were not necessary either. It was also stated that politics had listened to the criticism in the field. I propose that we conclude the discussion, which will no longer be a matter for the royal decrees, and that we proceed to the discussion of Royal Decree No. 28.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u52	Mr President, I will speak briefly and will not respond to the accusations of "extremism". We have become accustomed to it with the MR: when this party lacks arguments, it uses meaningless slogans, to avoid the substantive debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u53	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u54	Ma'am, I didn't cut you off! Anyway, we're used to it. So I'm not going to this field. Simply, you mentioned the social challenge and its form of expression. I will remind you that it was because the health care staff mobilized for months that the White Blouse Fund was voted in the House, but without your support. It was because of this mobilization that the two arrests were withdrawn. You talk about responsibility and accuse us of strengthening the sector. However, it was your Prime Minister, a member of your party, that this staff turned their backs. It is necessary to integrate this message and stop playing on elements of language to avoid the substantive discussion. If you want to talk about it, we're ready to discuss it. But then you have to accept it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u55	That was a personal fact. I'm going to end the discussion on this. I believe that the circumstances of December 2018 were completely different from those of February and March 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u56	Madam Minister, this is about clarifying the use of serological tests, but it is not quite clear to me what has just been decided. If I understand correctly, it is now decided who can be tested and with which test to be eligible for reimbursement. At the same time, however, it is apparently also possible to have a test carried out if one is outside the test criteria, at least if one wants to take the test for one's own account. What is the reasoning behind this? Why, after all, should a test be carried out if it does not make sense? The test can then be carried out on its own account if necessary. However, what is the reasoning behind the possibility of having the test carried out if someone wants to do so on their own account? Are we not at risk of working with a two-speed medicine: anyone who has 10 euros left for it can take the test, while anyone who can afford it more difficult cannot let him do it? On the website of Sciensano is also published who is eligible for reimbursement of the test and who is not. A list of the various tests eligible for reimbursement has also been published. Is it true that the speed tests will not be refunded? A KB has already been issued on this subject, but if I look at the website of Sciensano, I see that a list has been published which includes three quick tests. That's weird. Is that about another kind of quick tests? I find it rather confusing to see it like that. How is it determined which tests are eligible for reimbursement? So what tests have been approved? What procedure is used for this? Can we also have access to the procedure used to verify the quality of these tests? It is strange that there are still several large producers in the waiting room to get approval, for example Roche or Ortho Clinical Diagnostics, not the least companies. Apparently, they have not yet been affected by the approval procedure. I read in the press that 3.6 million serological tests were purchased by the federal government at the Liège company ZenTech. Is that right? Is that the only firm in which serological tests have been purchased? Is that what happened to other firms? If so, how many were there? At what firm's? What criteria were used to determine which firm was to be ordered from? There is also a pseudo nomenclature number that is being prepared to record the number of tests carried out outside the refund. How's that going? When can we expect that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u57	Mr President, Minister, we naturally welcome the establishment of a list and the establishment of a fixed price for these tests. Our group still has a few questions. It is now clear for whom and what tests can be carried out at that fixed price. If a test has been carried out from that list in the past and paid more for it, can that amount be recovered? How many tests on that list are currently recognised? Are there also rapid tests included, which would contradict the Royal Decree of 17 March? How many applications are still on a waiting list or are in a recognition procedure? How many more can be expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u58	Minister, we continue to defend the expansion of the use of these tests, especially since they are now available and many of these tests are recommended by Sciensano. I also wanted to ask the same question. How many tests do we have today? Has a strategic stock been established? It is also necessary to allow adequate support and clear information for those who use these tests to avoid the illusion of being protected and, for example, to continue to apply the necessary barriers. Health care insurance does not reimburse serological tests performed on individuals outside the target groups that have been identified. Are the criteria being expanded? If not, why? In all other cases, a maximum amount of €9.60 may be charged to the patient for the tests from 1 March, provided that the equipment used for the tests is recommended at the Sciensano site and that the test is carried out in an approved clinical laboratory. The press echoed private laboratories that advertised these tests and made them pay much more for citizens. Do you confirm this information? If so, what can we do to avoid this situation? The company ZenTech, whose rapid test is recommended by Sciensano, has just presented a test drive that keeps the results of each individual test performed and creates a database for scientists. Have any contacts been made with ZenTech in this context? Is this device operational? Finally, the INAMI website indicates that serological tests are also used in occupational medicine and for epidemiological purposes and that compulsory health care insurance will not reimburse tests for this use. Do you confirm, Madam Minister, that there is a prohibition on employers using these types of tests? If occupational medicine decides to use it, how can we ensure that the costs of these tests will not be carried over to the worker? The work should not have to bear the financial burden of this test.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u59	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, for the past three weeks there has been a relaxation of the testing criteria. At the same time, there is also a decrease in the number of people infected. The numbers are quite intriguing. In this testing policy, I would have liked to know exactly what the federal strategy is with these serological tests and the level of health indications it provides. What about the communication campaign? This will have to be overly clear about the use of these tests. What risks and drifts could result from certain people who would feel free like air? Finally, will there be a subsequent verification of the use and usefulness of these tests in the screening, testing and tracing campaign? Is an evaluation planned by Sciensano, quite quickly, following the use of these tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u60	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, what exactly is it about? Article 70 of Royal Decree No. 20 is adjusted. Since it is an amended royal decree, it becomes Royal Decree No. 28. The new Article 70 deals with serological tests. It concerns the detection tests on the list referred to in paragraph 3 which are carried out by the approved laboratories on persons who do not belong to the defined target group and therefore do not fall within the definition of the particular type of patient. First of all, the test that was requested is in no way a diagnostic test. For that to happen, we need the PCR tests. These tests must be validated by Sciensano, which have not existed for very long. Those Members who ask what will happen to tests of 1 March 2020 can reply that validated tests for serology did not exist at that date. We are only talking about serological tests. The RIZIV has put a maximum price on it, precisely to avoid the patient having to pay three to four times as much. The reason was that, among others, the group of Take Care of Care and some doctors had explicitly asked for tests to be taken in patients who asked for and wanted to know whether or not they had the disease. The doctor may also want to know if the patient has been ill and what his immune status is. The costs must indeed be borne by themselves. The Royal Decree of 17 March 2020 concerned the prohibition of rapid testing, precisely because no validated tests were available at that time and therefore it was dangerous to test. From the tests that were in circulation, we knew there were a lot of false negatives. The patients just got back into the world. Now a validation has been carried out according to a procedure at the FAGG. It is a procedure that is always followed in the case of validation. This was a validation for serum serology tests, not yet for blood. There is no validation yet. That's a new thing. As far as the purchase is concerned, I must refer you to my colleague De Backer. He's got a whole schedule of everything that's ever been purchased. To answer Ms Tillieux's question, there is indeed a storage of tests and reagents. Now that the market has become somewhat normalized, we can consider making sufficient reserves. Mrs Vanrobaeys, the Royal Decree of 17 March prohibiting patients from testing themselves or being tested at home remains in force. For a test, the patient has to go to a doctor. Mrs Tillieux, the tests you mentioned, which were carried out on 1 March, were not validated and were therefore probably not very reliable. As far as data is concerned, it is not up to the companies that produce the tests to feed our data bank, as this requires known circuits of doctors. For epidemiological studies, it is important that the database be provided by a record and by known methods. It is not Zentech's responsibility to enter the database. We must ensure that double counting and incomplete counting are avoided. Mrs H annoyance, the number of tests is actually increasing, even if we do less during the weekend. The percentage of people tested positive is now close to 1%, while this rate was close to 40% at the beginning of the crisis. You know we also practice testing in communities. I did it to Coxide. I asked some volunteers to get tested. We did the tests in one day, to prove to the mayor that they were all negative, and they were. We have the opportunity to ask for community tests when there are problems in either. How did the communication take place? A circular from INAMI was sent with many explanations. On the INAMI website, you will find an even more detailed explanation of the circular. Sciensano also made a communication; it is available on the website info-coronavirus.be. A group of doctors, Domus Medica, has already reacted, saying that scientificly, this is not necessary. It's true that it's never diagnostic. It's also because people are curious. They want to know if they have antibodies. I understand that. Some of them are scared. We know that if you have antibodies, it doesn't mean you're immune. It's another thing. But this gives a little certainty about each other's situation. I would say that scientificly it is not necessary, but emotionally it was a demand from the field, from doctors – not all of them, given today's reaction – but also from patients. There was no INAMI refund because the test was not validated. In article 70 – which was deleted – the patient did not have the possibility to pay for it. From now on, he can pay it to the doctors. We capped the price for not having a surprise. You have to be reasonable. We're starting to get out of a very heavy emotional period. People now have the opportunity to know if they have contracted the disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u61	Madam Minister, with regard to the test criteria for serological testing, there are four categories of people eligible for reimbursement of a serological test. You say it is never used for diagnostics, but three of the four criteria are indeed diagnostics: supplementing PCR tests, possibly after a period of one week. The risk of a PCR test becoming negative will then increase, including in other indications. It is important, however, that we get a look at the number of tests and the type of tests purchased and deployed by the government. It is still not quite clear to me how certain large firms apparently have to sit in the waiting room for a long time, while smaller firms are immediately approved and even have had a large purchase by the government. We need to follow that closely, and we need to find out why. The antigen test of Coris, the rapid test, was eventually also refunded, even at a higher amount than that serological test now, but eventually it turned out that the test was not reliable at all and the test was thrown overboard. Well, that test must have cost us a lot of money.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u62	Mrs Gijbels, when I say that it has no diagnostic value, I mean, of course, an acute diagnostic value. If the PCR test is negative and is still ill, a further serological test can be performed after one week to see if the disease has been diagnosed and has antibodies, despite the fact that the PCR test was negative. At that time, the diagnosis confirms the clinical diagnosis, which is not always reflected in the test. However, there is no acute diagnostic value, since those antibodies are not present directly with the symptoms. At best, these antibodies come after seven days for the pins. With regard to the purchases, I really must refer you. There's a task force headed by Minister De Backer. It also depends on the speed with which tests are reimbursed, not only on the advice of the task force, but also on the decisions taken in the budget, where the price is also important. Those antigen tests are indeed little or hardly used. You should know that one knows more and more three or four months later. With regard to these tests, there is also a progressive understanding. It was considered necessary at the time, and we took care of it. Afterwards, it was recognized that other, more reliable tests have now been carried out. The moment a test comes, everything is questioned. We have always chosen to repay the most reliable tests. The antigen tests were taken in speed by other, better tests. That is also known in the field. It seems clear to me, therefore, that the antigen tests are hardly being used.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u63	I did not get an answer to my question about the quantity of tests available and the possible existence of a strategic stock. Similarly, I have not heard an answer with respect to occupational medicine. If occupational medicine uses these serological tests, do you not fear that the cost will be passed on to workers? In other words, is it well forbidden for employers to use this type of test?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u64	First, the purchases were made by the working group led by Minister De Backer. There is indeed a strategic stock, but I have no idea how many tests. As far as occupational medicine is concerned, if an employer wants to have his staff tested in order to ensure the presence of antibodies, the health insurance will not intervene, the employer will have to bear the cost of the tests carried out. Furthermore, the tests are always carried out on a voluntary basis and are therefore not imposed by the employer. Finally, the number of people with antibodies in the Belgian population is currently 5 or 6%, which is very low. An employer who has all his staff tested has only one snapshot, which is likely to change from week to week. However, working conditions must respect the six preventive measures in the workplace, including distancing and hygiene measures. In my opinion, as an employer, there is not much interest in bearing all these costs. In addition, the employer must have an agreement with a laboratory that can carry out the tests and call on a doctor who can carry out the samples – for example, the occupational doctor. This test must always be carried out on a voluntary basis, and cannot be made compulsory.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u65	Will there be controls in relation to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u66	I'm not competent for occupational medicine. I don't think that's of much interest to employers. If they want to do tests, they have to get the agreement of the staff and it will only be a snapshot, likely to change some time later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you have been able to say everything that was to be said. I thank the Minister. Perhaps we will hold another meeting in two weeks' time, because an afternoon meeting for one KB...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u68	Mr President, last Saturday, five KBs were approved by the enlarged core.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u69	Have they been published yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u70	We're still waiting for the advice. I just wanted to say that I have five more in the oven.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-08-55-commissie-ic197x.u71	Madam Secretary, you have the lion's share here.
