ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen ministers, good morning and welcome to this joint committee meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs Committees, which I chair together with Mr Depoostere, and on the subject of, as you know, the death of an arrester in a police cell at Charleroi airport in early 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify our work and the Rules of Procedure. We start with questions to Mr Geens, Minister of Justice, immediately followed by questions to Mr De Crem, Minister of the Interior. The questioners have two minutes' speaking time. Anyone who has submitted several questions, either several questions to one of the ministers or questions to both ministers, may ask the questions together. For two questions, speaking time is four minutes. We shall then give the floor to the Ministers for the answers. Then the speaking time is two minutes before a reply. As far as possible, you can refer to the text of your question, as I note that there are many similar questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u2	Madam President, far from me the idea of creating a procedural incident, but do you not think that, in the face of the tragedy that we regret today, it would be wiser to devote a debate, a real debate in this Parliament, rather than to blocking the speeches by imposing a time limit on the questions tabled? I think we need the space to discuss the substance. This does not mean, however, that everyone feels allowed to speak for hours, but the particularly serious situation, such as that which concerns us in this committee – and which has been requested by several political groups – cannot be dealt with by interventions limited to two minutes. In my view, we should discuss the method here and allow each political group to speak out in good conditions, so that we can take stock of the facts and question the ministers on certain specific points. In any case, that would seem to me to be a good thing to practice in the light of the circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u3	Mr Laaouej, speaking time of two minutes is, of course, only an indication. It is indeed the intention that we should be able to have a debate. That is why we will not be too strict about it. Under the Rules of Procedure, both ministers have only five minutes in which to reply, but I think it is also impossible to explain this within that short period of time. However, I would like to follow the order of the questions that have been tabled. You can fill in the speaking time by group at your discretion. I would, however, like to prevent statements of half an hour from being made at the outset, so that both ministers would not receive their reply until this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u4	Madam President, are the questions addressed to the Minister of Justice first, or are we putting them together by group and asking them directly to both ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u5	We start with the questions to the Minister of Justice and then the questions come to the Minister of the Interior, but if you have questions for both ministers, you can of course put them together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u6	Madam President, I apologise for interfering with the rules of procedure. We do not, of course, have any problems with the way in which the questions are asked. However, I would ask that the Minister of the Interior should be able to answer before me, because he will be in chronology sooner. In the timeline, the responses of the Minister of the Interior are earlier than mine. I would therefore prefer him to answer first and then continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u7	Madam President, the order of business is a bit specific. The point of a joint commission is not to go one after the other by questioning the ministers after the other. The idea is to have a global current affairs debate. The work is not organized in this way. I'm surprised. I will listen very carefully to what my fellow Commissioners of the Interior will say and what the Minister De Crem will say, but this is a bit special for a topical debate where it was felt necessary to join the two committees.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u8	Mrs Khattabi, as you know, we have recently had a new Rules of Procedure for topical and urgent debates. This is only about applying this Regulation. If the committee considers that we should take account of the statements in order, taking into account the size of the political groups and one person per group, we can of course do so in this way. Then the ministers can give their answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u9	Madam President, on behalf of my group, I would like to express our condolences to the widow and young daughter of Jozef Chovanec who died two years ago following a police intervention in a cell in Charleroi. I have great admiration for his wife who not only lost her husband and had to raise their daughter alone, but who also fights a lonely battle from over 1,000 kilometres away to bring the truth to light. I believe that we have three things to discuss today. First of all, the cover-up with the police. In addition, the judicial investigation must also be examined. Before that, I'm looking at Minister Geens. The question is also what our ministers knew or did not know about this matter. Secondly, we must also talk about the rotten apples which are being held over their heads and which can destroy the atmosphere. Thirdly, I would also like to talk about police training and procedures for such techniques. It's not the first time anyone's died that way in a Belgian cell. Let us make sure it was definitely the last time. I'm sure I'd like to talk about the cover-up. Chovanec has been dead for two and a half years. However, the investigation has not yet been completed. There was a delay due to corona we heard, but this is yet another half truth that we have heard in this story over the last few weeks. The truth is that the widow felt compelled to appoint a second expert to counter the first law doctor's conclusion. The latter said that police intervention in the cell was not decisive for the death of Mr Chovanec. The counter-expert of the bourgeois party contests this. The widow therefore suspects that the intervention has contributed to the death of her husband. In any case, it is clear that Mr Chovanec has died a man's unworthy death. That's not how you treat an animal, said Mr. Chovanec's father. Minister None has informed us about the course of the investigation, we heard. We are therefore looking forward to your findings, Minister. How is it that the findings of both experts are so different? Did they go further on the same statements? Do you think that the bourgeois party's doubts about the independence of the investigation are justified? We also wonder how the investigation went between police and public prosecutors. The widow suspects that certain people were trying to hide the truth. What's your verdict on this? Did the court have easy access to all the necessary information? Which officers were working with through the judicial investigation? Isn't there a procedure for listening to senior officers from the Justice Department? Is it true they weren't involved in the investigation? Do you think mistakes were made in this investigation by your services or by Minister De Crem?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u10	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago we held hearings on the violence against the police. At that time, the conclusion was very clear: violence against police cannot and must be tackled. Now we're talking about police violence. I hope that the same message now resounds clearly in this House. Police violence cannot be tolerated and must be tackled. In the meantime, each of us has seen the footage from Charleroi Airport on several occasions in the media. This raises a lot of questions. From the point of view of justice, it is important to ask how it is that two and a half years after the facts the investigation has still not been completed. Moreover, these images also evoke memories of Jonathan Jacob's death, ten years ago. The question then is what changed during that period. What measures were taken to avoid such situations? The husband's next of kin deserve clarity and justice. That is why it is important that we address these questions today and the next few weeks and that we look for the links in the chain where it went wrong and how we can avoid this. Were these images known at Charleroi's parquet before they appeared in the media? How does the co-operation between the police and the Justice Department proceed during this investigation? What exactly went wrong with that? How come the police summit didn't find out about this footage? This investigation has been going on for two and a half years. We have heard that the report of the counter-expertise has to be awaited, which has meanwhile been rejected by the doctor in question. We hear the family has requested additional investigative actions. Is that right? How many did they ask for? That question was granted? In particular, how can such a judicial investigation take two and a half years? What stage is it at right now? When can we expect the conclusions? Tomorrow? Next month? End of the year? Thank you for clarifying that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u11	Madam President, Ministers, indeed, everyone knows by now the images of the police action in Charleroi. As other colleagues have pointed out, the images are appalling and rightly raise a lot of questions. I also realise that there are many more questions than answers to them today. How did this happen? Why did this just come to light now? How come they didn't intervene? My questions are mainly about the judicial investigation and, Minister of Justice, are mainly addressed to you. The investigation into death has been going on for more than two years, since 2018. According to the parquet itself, the investigation is almost over and there were several reasons for the delay. I'd like to hear those different reasons. On television we could see that the parquet gave the explanation that it had to do with corona, but that of course does not make any sense. The explanation given by the parquet magi street in front of the camera was downright embarrassing. One can put a lot on corona, but there are also limits to what one can put in the shoes of corona. Minister, I really cannot get the impression that there was a great disinterest in carrying out that investigation in a rapid, serious and adequate manner. I'm looking forward to the chronology you'll probably give in a minute. Colleagues, camera images had to reappear in the media before the matter was taken seriously and before any progress was made and the file would be conducted in a serious way. Do we really know what is happening here in the Justice Department? There's been a death in a police cell. There's footage of the facts. Those involved have been known and identified. Why does this take so long? I know making a comparison is always difficult, but in 2011 a certain Breivik committed a murder which killed 77 people during two attacks. Do you know, Minister, what period of time Mr Breivik has appeared before the courts in Norway? Nine months! Here we are two and a half years after the facts and we are nowhere. This is the problem with our Belgian slopes. There may be problems with the expertise and an investigation may be delayed here and there, but this is inexplicable. I am therefore very pleased that the Supreme Court of Justice has apparently already taken an initiative and requested information. I hope they will carry out a very thorough investigation into the course of that judicial investigation. If there is one kind of case that needs to be given absolute priority within the Justice Department, then surely it is about the death of a person in a police cell. I don't want that to end up at the bottom of the pile. Such dossiers must be at the top of the pile and must always be treated with the necessary seriousness and speed. Hence my very specific questions. Minister, I would like to know the chronology, as you are probably worried about by the public prosecutor. What steps have been taken since the start of the judicial investigation? What are the possible causes of the delay? For my second question, I refer to the text tabled. This question concerns the optional protocol to the OPCAT Anti-Folter Treaty, which was concluded 15 years ago, but has still not been ratified by Belgium, even though this has been mentioned several times. Mr Minister, I would like to see a state of affairs on this matter. The ratification of the Convention could lead to the prevention of such matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u12	My third question concerns the exchange of information with the Slovak Embassy. We have been informed that the Slovak Embassy was kept informed, apparently through the Foreign Office, which may have obtained information from the Justice Department, the investigating judge and the Attorney General. How exactly was the information about the investigation from the Justice Department communicated with the family concerned and with the Slovak embassy in our country? Questions can be asked, because apparently they fell from the sky at different levels of policy, although the Foreign Affairs Office was informed and kept informed. I would have liked to have some explanation. Madam President, Mr President, I have therefore put my three questions straight away.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u13	Madam Chair, the thoughts of the PS group are directed primarily to Mr. Chovanec, his family and his loved ones. This 38-year-old man, the father of the family, leaves orphans and a widow. He died under the tragic conditions we know. What is at stake is one of the cardinal values of our democracy: respect for human dignity. Clearly, respect for it has been flouted. The images are clear. The judicial investigation will establish criminal responsibilities. At the disciplinary and administrative levels, there are also consequences. But already, what we were given to see shows physical pressure on a man who was apparently in a state of psychological distress. Where medical assistance should have been called, some thought they had to press his chest cage until, no doubt, led to his death. This is unacceptable in democracy. As if that wasn't enough, it seems as clear (it wasn't denied) that a police officer performed a Nazi salutation against camera. In a police service – a federal administration – and in general within our society, but, moreover, and a fortiori, in a federal administration with persons responsible for authority and law enforcement, whose first duty is to respect our democratic values, Hitler's Nazi salvation is unacceptable. It is also on this, ministers, that we ask you to speak. The questions we ask ourselves stem from what we are aware of, first of all a problem of feedback. Federal police number 2 explained that he had not been informed. Who, then, was informed of this? How far has the information been raised? The facts were revealed in the press. Therefore, as regards the Minister of Justice and the predecessor of the current Minister of the Interior, have you been informed, in the political sphere? Has the high police hierarchy been so? And if not, why was it not so? That's one of the questions you need to ask yourself. What lessons have been learned both in terms of individual cases and the measures to be taken so that this kind of situation does not happen again? What are the techniques used by the police? Is it considered, while we have denounced the tragic death of Mr Floyd in the United States with a wave of emotion of global magnitude, that in Belgium, too, such techniques are used? What about the current situation? Then we would also like to ask you how it is possible that agents are so poorly trained (since they were many) to respond to situations of this nature. In the case of airport police, cases such as this may occur at any time. So, here too, we would like to know what is happening. As for Hitler's salvation, our arms fall from it! The images are unequivocal and are supported by a clear laugh! I do not want to suggest here that our group is amalgamating. We welcome the difficult work done by the vast majority of police officers under the complicated conditions we know. At the same time, however, these facts are serious enough that we should dwell on them in order to learn from them. That is why our group is asking for an in-depth audit by a foreign service. This can be the P Committee of the Airport Police. In the same way, we also call for the hearing of the Commissioner-General of the Police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u14	Our thoughts also initially go to Mr Chovanek's family. Charleroi's parish has been investigating the case since the first days after the facts, at the end of February 2018. We are now two and a half years later and it remains extremely frustrating that judicial investigations in our country should drag on for so long. The problem has been known for a long time and it is high time that the judicial procedures could proceed much faster and more efficiently. It's an old very. The most vengeful thing about the whole story is for sp.a the problem of security and police forces on the one hand and the fact that no follow-up was given to the images at the time of the facts and immediately afterwards. Mr Kitir will be discussing this shortly with her question to Minister De Crem about the role and responsibility of then Minister and current Flemish Prime Minister Jan Jambon. My questions are addressed to Minister Geens. You have already said, Minister, that, in your opinion, the court has not been slow. That's remarkable, isn't it? You have reported that the investigating judge would shortly deliver his report and that the case will normally be brought to justice in 2021. I do not want to repeat the debate on the slowness of justice here today. But it is remarkable that before the delay you yourself referred to the corona crisis, which is partly justified, but also to additional investigative actions, as requested by the defense. In the press we could already read that the medical counter-expert's investigation was already completed after one month. So it doesn't seem to have been about that. That's why you're here to back up your statement and that of Charleroi's parish? When was the cause of death investigated? What is the status of the procedure? Did you think there was enough progress? Why did you consider that the additional investigative actions, to which the victim's family is perfectly entitled, had just caused the delay, given that the medical counter-expert was finished after a month? More importantly, it is, of course, astonishing that the measures to send one agent involved to the interior service were considered and taken so late. This indicates a total lack of information flow. The police could and should have started a disciplinary procedure much sooner. One doesn't rule out the other. That's what the P Committee said earlier. It is therefore inappropriate that some should now refer to the ongoing investigation as a reason why no measures have been taken. Do you agree? I suppose so. In light of that, I have one more question. Did the Justice Department, when they had looked at the footage, inform the disciplinary authorities about this? If so, who did? Who was informed and when did that happen? Do you think there is such an obligation, for example in the letter? If not, should such an obligation not be introduced, in particular where there is or appears to be criminal offences?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u15	Madam President, I would of course like to begin by expressing our sympathy to Mr Chovanec's widow, to his family, and by telling her all our indignation and regret at having to hold this meeting, since this is clearly the result of a series of dysfunctions, whether it be in the police or in the justice system. When I say that, I don't think I insult anyone. This is probably the only conclusion that can already be anticipated, given what seems to be a certain amount of information that has not passed. I almost want to say that, at best, it is information that has not passed, and at worst, the information has circulated but probably there has been a willingness not to deal, not to say, not to name things. Nor will I anticipate the conclusions of this morning, but, in my view, this committee is only a first step. This is going to happen today, in any case for my group, first of all to understand in a very objective way how things have happened, what justifies a number of malfunctions. As far as I am concerned, the delay in the handling of this case by the Court of Justice. My colleague Mr. Van Hecke mentioned it widely. I would like to come with one element, before questioning Minister Geens about what was being done in his department. Today, of the three ministers concerned – Mr Goffin, Mr Goffin, Mr Goffin, Mr Goffin, Mr Goffin, Mr Goffin, Mr Goffin, Mr Goffin, Mr Goffin, Mr Goffin, Mr Goffin, Mr De Crem and Mr. Geens – you were the only one in place at the time of the case. We have heard everything and its opposite. Minister, I wanted to ask you very clearly and very briefly: who knew what at the time? The case, the drama, which we are dealing with today – as I said – seems to be a concentration of dysfunctions in the police at any rate, in view of the scandalous images and omerta around Hitler's salvation made by an agent, and consequently his impunity. My colleagues, as I said, will deal with this. I would like to ask you, Minister, about the follow-up that has been carried out by the courts since Mr Chovanec's death. So, yes, a man died under unworthy circumstances of a rule of law. Two and a half years later, even though the images are clear, that the actors of this drama are known, no answer has yet been given to the Chovanec family. My colleague Mr. Van Hecke has developed it extensively. Minister, I would like to hear from you. How do you judge the processing time of this case? In compliance with an instruction that I hope will finally or still be in progress, can you help us understand why two and a half years after these facts, there does not yet seem to be any conclusion to this investigation, by enlightening us, through the detailed menu, the process of the instruction? I am not asking to go into the details, but to tell us more about the procedure. When? Who intervened? If so, at what time did the blocking take place which justifies that after two and a half years there is still no answer? Could you give us a detailed menu of the investigation since Mr. Chovanec's death, the duties of investigations, forensic expertise, etc.- Is that what you're saying? What stage in the judicial process are we at today? Minister, what time can you give Mr. Chovanec's widow about the outcome of this case? Thank you for the answers and clarifications you can provide at this first stage of our work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u16	Madam President, it is obviously with great emotion and shock from what has been revealed in the press, from this scandal that we are meeting this morning, and it seems that there is no need to raise the auctions here because it is not about that. This is not a political issue. You ministers, this morning you will have to give a little bit of answers to a family that has been waiting for them for two and a half years already. It is to her that you owe these answers first and foremost and then to democracy. Indeed, according to the images we have all seen, it is obviously democracy that is violated as well as the basic rights of a person. As such, the answers and transparency that you will give today will constitute a very partial response to the reparation of this act. I hope that you will be committed to giving them to the family and to democracy. We said so. A lot of questions remain unanswered. What we expect of you today is a precise set of things. Mr Geens, you said that you were going to let your colleague De Crem speak first because it is first at the level of the police that this happens before reaching justice. We're waiting for that. What happened? What are the objective facts? Which authorities have been notified? It seems that a number of them deny having been informed, mainly at the level of the police hierarchy. This seems very implausible with regard to a number of elements. Why, therefore, have these administrative authorities not initiated a start on disciplinary proceedings? Even if criminal proceedings were under way, there could have been a start to disciplinary proceedings. Why has this not been the case? We are really waiting for answers on this fundamental question. In fact, establishing responsibilities or possibly removing them amounts to restoring trust in a service. It is imperative that we be able to point out specific responsibilities so as not to cast reproach on the entire police force, which we know is facing – as is the case with the federal police – a huge lack of resources forcing it to work under difficult circumstances. This situation does not in any way excuse the actions that have been taken, but if there are responsibilities to be established, they must really be done in order to prevent all police officers from being tainted by a case such as this one. As far as the airport police are concerned, we are aware that some elements have already alarmed us in the past. Since 2013, we have seen a strong demand to audit this airport policy. Can you tell us whether an audit procedure was initiated before this case or since this case? What are the procedures to be applied by the airport police, particularly with regard to the use of force? I am thinking in particular of repatriations, which are tasks entrusted to this police. For what reasons has the Director of the Federal Police Administrative Section not been informed of this intervention by the Airport Police Officer? Was anyone aware of this intervention on the federal police steering committee? I asked the Commissioner General of the Federal Police, Marc De Mesmaeker, to come and explain certain procedures and provide us with an account of the minutes and reports prepared at the time. It is indeed important that the hierarchy of the police can be explained. We know that Mr. De Mesmaeker was not in office at the time of the facts. How was the police steering committee informed, as far as it was informed? And if it was, why did it not take the additional measures that fell within its competence, namely to initiate disciplinary proceedings against the officials concerned? These issues are fundamental to the clarity and transparency of the debate. On the other hand, Mr. Minister of Justice, like others, I would like you to tell me when you were informed of the existence of an ongoing investigation. Have you been informed by the press? What do you know about the possible progress of the current training? How can you reassure this family in distress a little after losing a loved one, but also in the distress of not knowing and, in doing so, not being able to mourn? It is essential for this family that you answer all these unanswered questions in full transparency today. These answers are fundamental, if we want to move forward, but also for this family that must be able to mourn. I would also like to share one point with you. Indeed, according to some, the federal police hierarchy would not have been aware of what happened. In my opinion, this is very unlikely. Why? There is an article in the Police Function Act which allows officers to be represented by a State-paid lawyer. I think that's section 52 of the Police Function Act. Of course, a federal police authority must sign the agreement on this representation. This agreement was therefore signed at some point in time. In so doing, the federal police, at a level other than that of the airport police, were aware of the facts. I repeat that the representation, in the course of the investigation, by a lawyer, of the persons concerned had to be validated. I would therefore like you to tell us who signed this document. Indeed, a member of the Federal Police Branch was necessarily aware of it. That, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, is what I wanted to ask at this stage. There will, of course, be many more. To conclude my speech, I strongly reiterate my request to hear from the Commissioner-General in this committee. In particular, it is he who will be able to explain to us the administrative procedures and the reports which have or have not been transmitted to the hierarchy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u17	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that everyone in this room shares the same indignation and that everyone in this room also shares the same questions. How is it possible that this does not come up until two and a half years later, moreover, on the basis of particularly painful images? The many questions about the police aspects and about the follow-up will be asked by my colleagues Ingels and Metsu. I'm just gonna stick to the justice hatch. Once again, Minister, we must establish the slowness of justice. Two and a half years after such a fact is particularly long. So there was a lot going on well before corona, so that, as previous speakers have said, corona is not the best excuse to be held accountable. Mr Secretary, what is taking the investigation so long? Why isn't the investigation closed yet? When will the investigation be closed? I trust that you will also give us a clear timeline on the course of the investigation so that we can get a clear picture of what has already happened at that stage. For what has happened before or should not have happened in the police field, I refer to the questions of my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u18	This addressed the questions raised by the Minister of Justice. Groups which have not put forward any questions to the Minister of Justice, but which nevertheless wish to make a statement, can now have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u19	Madam President, Ministers, my questions are addressed to you both, but the first part of my speech is also addressed to the Members of Parliament present here. Last week, we all saw in the media the shocking images of a man beating his own head to blood against a cell wall, some policemen who were rather laughing about that situation, and the known disastrous outcome. Terribly natural, especially for the family, who not only lost a loved one, but also saw shocking images spread in the national and international press. It is also appalling for our police services, who are doing a very good job every day in often very difficult circumstances and whose reputation is now thoroughly smeared by this incident. Week after week, we discussed how we will finally fill the many vacancies in the police services. Incidents such as those mentioned, together with the unsophisticated reaction of many media and politicians, make recruitment to the police even more difficult. Ladies and gentlemen, what makes things even worse is that many politicians fell into the trap of the one-sided media coverage, which is not interested in nuanced, full coverage, but in clicks and in a shock effect. This led politicians to cry out loudly in their condemnation of the police. This is of course in fashion lately and it is completely in line with the Black Lives Matter narrative, which I have heard even today. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to call on you to be careful with that. Everything indicates that mistakes have been made, but is it a structural problem? No. Does something like this happen all the time? No. Does the incident give a correct picture of the way our policemen work day in and day out? Absolutely not. That is why it is surprising to note that many politicians who are silent in all languages about the many structural problems of this country are now in the front row to profile themselves with that very exceptional case. Let the dramatic incident serve as a lesson so that no more incidents and poor-functioning control mechanisms are at last improved. I have further questions for both ministers. Who knew exactly what for the past two and a half years? Is there a cover-up? If so, what action will you take? Can you assure us that there have been no more such incidents under the radar of the control mechanisms? What measures have you already taken to prevent such events? We have already heard the unbelievable statements of the Charleroi parish; how the hell is an investigation taking so long? Do you think it's correct that the victim's family should wait so long for answers? Is the exact cause already known of the fact that the victim has bent his head to hell against the cell wall?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u20	Madam President, after I, by the way, am the only one who has agreed to ask the questions to Minister None within two minutes, I would now like to put my questions to Minister De Crem. Minister, last week the number two of the federal police resigned. It wasn't really resignation, it's being temporarily pushed aside and after the investigation, of course, he expects to be able to take his place again. Can you confirm that Mr Desenfants was not aware of the matter and did not see the footage? Mr Danny Elst, head of the airport police, has also resigned. He received an order measure on top of it, because as an officer he must be aware of the facts and probably was. Is it true that the man was aware of the facts and the footage? Did he possibly withhold the footage? What disciplinary measure did he get? The officer who delivered the Hitler greeting next to a dying man is only now on the inside duty years after the facts. Apparently, the images had to be made public before the immediate superiors took steps. Do you think, Minister, that there has been too lax action here by the immediate superiors? Do you think the lady in question can continue to perform her duties? Is there gonna be another investigation into this cop? Ladies and gentlemen, the question is not so much whether there is a cover-up, but rather how big the cover-up is. Joseph Chovanec died a horrible death and there are people who have tried to keep that a secret as best they can. The League of Human Rights has already indicated that complaints at the P Committee are often referred to local authorities and corps rather than to higher levels. That way, the officer responsible, and sometimes even the perpetrator, are the same person as the judge. Belgium has twice been condemned by the European Human Rights Court for the way in which our police services do not handle complaints against police violence correctly. That is why, on behalf of my group, I would not just like to ask how Mr Desenfants was not officially informed, but also to make it clear that there is something very wrong with the way the Belgian police handle complaints. We therefore also asked for hearings to be held on this matter. The day before yesterday, the Slovak Embassy also found out that before Mr Chovanec's death, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was informed. An e-mail from the FPS Foreign Affairs Office was sent to the P Committee. Through this way, this matter should have reached the police summit, and ultimately the cabinet and the minister. When a European Member State asks questions about police action that has led to the death of a national, I believe that it should be discussed at the highest level. Was Minister Reynders aware of that complaint and did he know about the footage? Is it true that no member of the Belgian Government was aware of the facts? Ministers None and De Crem, was none of your cabinet members aware of the facts or the footage? Minister De Crem, do you think your predecessor was aware of the facts? It's very important that we talk urgently about the rotten apples. We've been getting a lot of messages from police officers who are angry over the past few days. They see how colleagues of theirs not only drive a man to his death, but afterwards also bring the Hitler greetings and dance upbeatly. For the past two and a half years, these agents have been held above their heads. For the past two and a half years, police officers have been keeping their hands shut. The truth hasn't come out for two and a half years. That is a disgrace to all honest cops who want to do their job properly. We must say quite clearly here: stop the cover-up! There's no room for people with fascist tendencies in our police forces.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u21	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have all said that it took two and a half years for us to be informed; two and a half years for us to be here today to ask for clarification on a dramatic and unacceptable situation. Already, this delay, this long delay raises questions. And if we are informed of this today, it is not via a report, it is not via hearings, it is not via the minister or his predecessors. Both the Secretary of State and the former Minister of the Interior stressed that they had not been informed of the facts. We are informed by the widow of Jozef Chovanec who, desperate, sounds the alarm and calls for help to finally get answers about what happened. Dramatic facts led to the death of a man. And all this, with the action of our police forces, the action, the behaviour, the inappropriate reaction of some of them. Today, of course, this raises questions. We've got a lot of questions. Where are we with this airport police? This is not the first time that we have encountered problems, that inappropriate behaviour is highlighted within this airport police. Already in 2014, it had been pointed out that there were difficulties, problems in the missions accompanying forced returns. In 2016, I personally saw him while I was regional director at Fedasil, a more than muscular intervention was made by the same police in the Jodoigne reception centre, an intervention that we had described at the time as "disproportionate", but which also the local police had considered disproportionate, even informing Committee P. That is in line with the questions we are asking ourselves. Is there not a structural problem in the management of the aviation police? Is there also a problem of training and managing the use of violence within the police? Are the procedures that allow it appropriate? And if not, why is there no reflection on this? That is why, as Mr Ahmed Laaouej, our group leader, pointed out, it is absolutely necessary to audit the management of the airport police. And then, it is difficult to understand how these facts come out two and a half years later and that, obviously, no one has been informed of them, no one has investigated them, no one would have acted on them. However, there is no question of a different fact. It's about a dead man! A death that, obviously, has not died accidentally. It will be up to justice to define the circumstances. But the images are shocking, atrocious and I do not understand, I cannot understand, that we have not been informed of them. Minister, were disciplinary measures taken immediately after the facts, yes or no? In the police organization, who was aware of this case? Why isn't the information, if it hasn't gone back to you? Is this a problem in the process? At some point, would there have been information that didn't get to you? Do you know the reason, so that it doesn't happen again? It's essential. In order for this to stop happening, this information has to go back up. Has a report been prepared for the attention of the Directorate-General of the Administrative Police or the General Police Station? If so, what steps have been taken in response to this report? What are the structural responses taken by you or your predecessor (since it is a question of facts dating back two years earlier) to put an end to practices that have dramatic consequences and that are now emerging? Is the judicial investigation coupled with an in-house investigation conducted by the IGA or the P Committee? What steps are being taken to ensure that all the light is made now? It is more than time for the light to be shed on this particular event. I hope, minister, that this is the second time that we meet in just a few days to talk about the behaviour of some police officers, that there will be no third time and that measures will be taken in the future so that we and our citizens can have confidence in our police. We have no doubt: 99% of them do their work remarkably well. For others, corrective action must be taken immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u22	Madam President, Ministers, the facts for which the committee is being convened today are very serious and raise many questions. A man in need doesn't get help and he dies. At that very moment, a cop finds it necessary to express Hitler's greetings with the smile on her face. Nothing happens for two and a half years, but when those horrible images appear in the press, sanctions are suddenly possible. It is a jaw blow for the family, a jaw blow for all those police officers from all over our country who do their job with integrity every day and it is also a jaw blow for our country because we even got the international press with it. How on earth is it possible that no one, but no one, has acted in the police after these facts and after seeing these images? No disciplinary procedure has been initiated. The police officers were allowed to do their job business as usual. The images appear and suddenly a sanction can be given. Can somebody explain that to me? What's the difference? I know that the judicial investigation has yet to establish whether this man's death is due to the police action or not, but there are plenty of other facts to be seen on those footage that are really asking for disciplinary sanctions, including Hitler's greetings. Maybe there are people here in the room who think that's innocent or call that a juvenile sin. Along with me, many people find this unacceptable. It is reprehensible and unacceptable. And as if it is not bad enough that no one has taken an initiative to impose sanctions, it is at least as bad that now everyone is pretending to fall out of the sky. Either it is true that people were not aware, but that means that in our country there is no procedure of flow of information, there is no procedure for how we should act in such a situation. Then I ask out loud whether there are any other incidents like this. Can anyone guarantee me that it isn't? Can anyone guarantee me that in other situations the procedures will be followed? Either it doesn't make sense and they were aware of it and then maybe this is a cover-up. I honestly do not know which of the two possibilities is the worst. I don't know. But one could have known. If the Slovak Embassy sends a letter to the Foreign Office a few days after the incident, I cannot imagine that the Foreign Office will not contact the Home Office to ask what happened there. If there's an article in the press about the incident, and I'm Home Secretary and the police officer didn't brief me, I'll take my phone and ask what exactly happened there and if there's something I need to know. If the P Committee is informed very quickly after the incidents, and is able to take measures or take initiatives independently of the judicial investigation itself but does not do so, then I wonder, in the capacity of Minister for the Interior, who at that time calls himself the Prime Minister of Security, what the hell has been organised. How can it be that the Minister of the Interior is not aware if all the other services are? That's not gonna happen to me. I may be asking my questions today to the wrong person. After all, Minister Jambon should have answered here today in what way he had organised himself and what measures he had taken to ensure that such incidents did not occur. My questions are therefore very simple. How the hell was it possible? How much more is needed in this country before we take action? Someone died.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u23	Madam President, a man died as a result of police intervention. In the 21st century, it is possible to die as a result of police intervention! And contrary to what some colleagues suggest, this is not an incident. It is a serious act that dishonors us and is not worthy of a rule of law. My thoughts go to his widow and family. They have lost a loved one, await a judicial truth and possibly sanctions. In addition to Mr Chovanec's death, which strikes us deeply and on which all the light will have to be shed, the attitude of the agents in intervention, in view of the images, is truly scandalous and also requires that the greatest transparency be given to this aspect of the case. In the wake of the revelations of these images, the head of the airport police took a step on the side, arguing that they had only been seen in the press. He didn't know anything about that video. "I feel prevented from carrying out my mandate," said number 2 of the police. This sentence is also cold in the back for a senior police officer. And all of us in this chamber, minister, are wondering what this sentence means. Why, at what time and by whom was this person prevented from doing his job? Since these images were released, all of them have fallen apart. No one knew about it, despite a judicial investigation, despite a complaint lodged with the P Committee, despite an arrest by the Slovak Embassy at the SPF Foreign Affairs! The minister of the interior of the time knew nothing! Neither is the Minister of Foreign Affairs! The top of the police, all the beautiful people, this chain of officials didn't know anything! I will not insult anyone, minister, if I say here that it is hard to believe. Minister, what is going on with the airport police in Belgium? How could the police officer, after such a tragedy, not be aware of these images recorded by his own surveillance cameras and contained in the file? How do you explain that the disciplinary investigation starts only now, two years after the facts? How does a Nazi greeting not lead to a disciplinary investigation and immediate sanctions? It's incomprehensible. Finally, what lessons do you learn from this incident? Are you going to review the operating instructions for the airport police? Are you going to ban certain police techniques that inevitably lead to a disproportionate use of force?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u24	Madam President, Ministers, the situation has already been outlined by colleagues. In the Committee on the Interior, we have talked a few times in recent months about violence against the police. Remember Anderlecht, Sint-Gillis, Blankenberge recently. As a party, we have always held the line of zero tolerance. Perpetrators of violence against the police must be brought to justice quickly, be given a ruling quickly and be punished quickly. Applying what's in the law, quick law, must be possible. Our party believes that the same should be done in the event of excessive force by the police. The facts must be established immediately and reported within the police hierarchical line. An internal investigation must be carried out and criminal offences must also be investigated by the public prosecutor. Rapid law must also be applied there. It is not possible, for example, that someone who brings the Hitler greetings should simply be put on the inside. This simply cannot be done; other disciplinary measures must be taken internally. Nor can it be for us that more than two years after the facts, nothing had been known about this within the police. The investigation will prove it, but it seems that this is a deliberate cover-up within a certain group of police. This gives all policemen, from Ostend to Arlen, a very bad image. Saying Hitler's greetings, laughing at the situation, that's all not right. There's been some serious image damage caused by this limited group of people in Charleroi. Colleagues also ask that the Commissioner-General of the police be brought here, which is still to be discussed in the course of the work. We will certainly support that. This committee deserves to get an update from the Commissioner-General on the internal investigation. Mr. Secretary, how come the intel didn't come up within the hierarchical line of the police? There were enough signals: flashing lights that went on, the ambassador who was called up, contact between the Foreign Affairs and the P Committee and other things. How come this didn't come up and it didn't get to the ministerial level? I cannot imagine that the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not contact the Minister of Security at the time, to talk about it. That must also be examined. You were not the Minister of the Interior at the time, but I think we should certainly ask that question within the committee. How's the internal disciplinary investigation coming along? Can you say anything about that? There's been a crisis meeting with the federal police. Mr Desenfants has taken a step aside. Were you involved in that crisis meeting? What measures will the police take in response to these facts, as well as in response to possible subsequent facts, to condemn and ban police violence from all police forces? The legal part has been going on for two and a half years now. In some media I have also read that a investigating judge said in March 2019 that the investigation is ready. Could you give me more information on that, Minister Geens?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u25	The matter we are talking about today in committee is extremely serious. It is also unworthy of the probity that must be expected of our police force, which the vast majority of our police officers demonstrate every day. We'll never say enough. However, ministers, we could not fail to question you on this matter, because it is unacceptable for a Slovak national to be killed at one of our airports because he was crushed under the weight of a policeman for sixteen long and endless minutes. It is unacceptable that, beyond this totally disproportionate violence, one of the agents had the opportunity to make a sign that can only be interpreted as a Nazi salvation. No matter the context, the young age or the fatigue of a police officer, making a Nazi greeting is simply unacceptable. It is also unacceptable that we have had to wait for the disclosure of these images, almost two and a half years after the facts, to finally be able to discuss this matter with you and to address the problems and malfunctions that this case raises. The first question I wanted to raise with you, ministers, is who knew what, first of all within the federal police hierarchy. Who was aware of these facts? Has a report been prepared for the Directorate-General of the Administrative Police and the General Police Station? If so, what measures have been taken as a result of this report? If not, why did these facts not go back to the top of the federal police hierarchy, knowing that it is customary and normal to bring up such information when it comes to a death as a result of a police intervention? Also within the federal government, who was aware of the facts? Is it possible that the then Minister of the Interior in charge of the Federal Police, Mr Jambon, was not aware of these facts, whereas three days after the facts, the Federal Public Service (SPF) Foreign Affairs was informed by the Slovak Embassy in Brussels, who wanted to be informed of the follow-up to the future investigation? How is it that the Walloon Minister responsible for airports, Mr. Crocket, was aware of these facts, but not the federal minister who has the federal police under his supervision? In my view, Minister Jambon will also have to explain these facts. We know that a judicial investigation is under way and we respect, of course, the separation of powers and the fact that justice must be able to do its work. In addition to this, has this judicial investigation been accompanied by an internal investigation conducted by the General Inspectorate of the Federal Police and the P Committee? If so, when and on whose initiative? Are there any investigative elements that already establish the responsibilities of each other, in any case, at the top of the federal police hierarchy? As regards the conduct as such adopted by some of these police officers: why did the federal police hierarchy not rule out this police officer who made the Nazi salutation directly after having known the facts and images, especially since in this case it is a flagrant offence supported by these video surveillance images and which the police also possessed? How does the federal police protect themselves against agents who would have sympathy for the ideas of the far right? Why are federal police officers not sufficiently trained in the management of difficult psychological behaviour, such as that of Mr. Chovanec, while the Liberal Union of the Public Service Police has been calling for it for years? When was an ambulance called back? By whom and to whom did this decision belong? Finally, I wanted to go back to the protection of police officers who wish to bring back dysfunctions or acts of violence to their hierarchy. We have a law in Belgium on the protection of whistleblowers. What steps have you taken to implement this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out once again that we are currently in this Chamber with too many people. We are getting complaints about this. To members of the press and to staff who should not be here, I would like to ask you to follow the meeting from the public gallery.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u27	Madam President, Ministers, I will put my questions together. I want to start with what has already been outlined. Two years ago, Jozef Chovanec died in a police cell and for two years the only and official explanation was that the man died of cardiac arrest. Only last week, with the release of the video footage, came out what horrible reality preceded his death. An inspector sits on the man for 16 minutes to keep him under control with the greatest difficulty, demonstrating how difficult it is for the police to apply the right techniques in difficult circumstances. Mr Chovanec's condition suggests that he should have ended up in a hospital and not in a cell, but, unlike the Netherlands, there are no guidelines in our country. In addition, there was a police officer who, supposedly for a joke, brings a Hitler greeting. Sense of humor is clearly not part of the curriculum of the police school, Minister, but I hope that you will make it clear here today that a Hitler greeting, in whatever context, cannot belong to the behaviour of the police. At least the vast majority of our police officers, who are worth their uniform every day and who take care of our security in an admirable way, deserve that signal. It was waiting for the video footage to come out before our system got going, way too late. This raises serious questions about the flow of information and the responsibility of the police summit and the government. That's what my first series of questions are about. Who was aware of the precise circumstances surrounding Mr Chovanec's death? Who had access to that footage? How should the people who were informed have acted? Do you think they did that? Are all cells equipped with such cameras and are images of violence systematically investigated? Who is investigating this and to whom should be reported? Who should have been aware of the circumstances, but was not aware of them, and how come they were not informed? Was the Minister of the Interior aware of these facts or not, and you think he should have been? How do you intend to ensure that such problems with the flow of information no longer arise in the future? Which steps will you take? One conclusion from the tragedy in Charleroi is that sufficient training in violence control in the police is crucial. In addition, directives on appropriate actions in such situations are necessary. Just there, the shoe seems to be pinching. For years now, it has been clear that the officers lack the appropriate training and guidelines, despite the recommendations of the P Committee which already exist since Jonathan Jacob's death in 2010. In other words, we expect our police officers to be able to control extremely difficult situations, but we do not give them the right tools to do so. That is why I have a number of questions. How come there is still no directive on dealing with excited delirium syndrome? Do you want to work on this? By when? How come no initiatives were taken for a procedure for violent or unruly persons in prison? Are you going to work on this? By when? Where is it maintained how often interventions on violent and unruly persons occur every year and how many deaths after police action occur every year? How many are these figures? How many of these unruly people went through a mental health crisis? What steps have been taken in the meantime to tackle the basic competences of police control of violence? Was a better system of continuous training developed by our agents? How many hours of training violence control should cops be required to follow? Is that enough for you right now? Finally, Minister, it is important both for the police themselves and for society as a whole that the image of the police is spotless. Individual mistakes, mistakes or even shocking performances will of course never be completely prevented. But when they take place, action must be taken against them, even if one thinks that no one knows what happened. The cop who delivered the Hitler greeting wasn't alone. Other agents were aware of her behavior, as were people who watched the video footage, including executives. They knew what had happened. However, it was only two years after the date. Why is that? Do you think that an agent who releases the Hitler greeting, whatever the circumstances, belongs in the Belgian police? Will you also have the behavior of the other agents involved investigated and sanctioned if necessary? In your view, is there a need for a better procedure that should enable agents to be called to account for such behaviour? Why is that, or why not? What steps do you intend to take to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u28	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, many legitimate questions are being asked here. There are many aspects to this story. But I would like to comment on how to deal with the excited delirium syndrome. If I'm awake from something, it's the thought of what happens when there's another arrest tomorrow in which the person would lead to this syndrome. That must be our first concern, mustn't it? The other questions also need to be clarified, but this seems to me to be the most urgent one. The syndrome is anything but innocent. One can get it through drug use, in a rehab phase, through a mental illness,... It's usually men, about 80%. A lot of research has already been done. Contrary to what some colleagues have said, there were directives, but they were not distributed across the whole of the integrated police force. So that's a problem. But there were indeed corps that had already worked on this. I am thinking of East Flanders and other services. It has already been worked hard and has already been put together. This isn't just about the police. The police are confronted with this, but they need the help of Health immediately. The parquet must also be sensitized so that no cell confinement is requested when dealing with such persons. What happens to a person like that? Maybe we should make that clear. First there is a phase of complete euphoria, which skips to aggression. Heart rhythm and body temperature are rising. One gets extraordinary strength and is no longer sensitive to pain. This is very important for the police, because it means that the ordinary coercive measures they take and the usual techniques they use when they are arrested, when necessary, do not work. On the contrary, this only makes it worse. Locking up in a cell is the worst thing that can be done. My main concern is: what if there is another such case tomorrow? Do the police know what to do? Does the medical staff know what to do? Does the parish know how to handle this? There were guidelines in some corps. Why weren't they generally spread to the integrated police? To what extent does EDS receive attention in the training course at both the police and the medical sector? What is the status of cooperation with the relief services and the public prosecutor? Will we look at that together? Are you thinking of a joint circular? Is there going to be such a COL to clarify how to deal with this? That's one thing. A second aspect that has been addressed in recent days is the role of the officer of administrative police. We hear in this case that he was called, got a report of the situation and then decided on his own responsibility not to come to the scene. We should call on the union to make it compulsory for people to show up every time. For those responsible for the detention, it is logical that it should be on the scene. Minister De Crem, how do you feel about this obligation? Are you willing to go along with that? What's your opinion on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u29	Madam President, Ministers, since last week, the images of the police intervention in connection with the arrest of Jozef Chovanek at Charleroi airport have aroused outrage and many questions. The dissemination of these images has already had many consequences. In this more than complex case, it would be premature at this stage to draw conclusions. The investigation will have to determine each person's responsibilities and clarify the dramatic facts that took place in the police unit at Charleroi Airport. Today, it seems to us important to distinguish clearly two problems: on the one hand, the conduct of police intervention and, on the other hand, the Nazi salutation posed by a police officer in the exercise of his missions. This gesture is unacceptable. It is to be condemned firmly and unanimously. Our police officers must be neutral and impartial. Such an act has no place in our society and democracy. The federal police, moreover, took the decision last Wednesday to transfer the officer who had made Hitler's salvation, thus depriving him of contacts with citizens in the course of his duties. When questioned in the media, Minister De Crem stated that he would seek a disciplinary investigation for these inappropriate actions. Could you give us the reasons for this late decision on the transfer of this agent? Was disciplinary proceedings initiated against him? With regard to the intervention itself, the toxicological analysis would refer to an agitated delirium syndrome, a sudden disorder in which the individual manifests a certain agitation, hallucinations, a feeling of persecution and sometimes even acts of violence. In short, during the police intervention, the individual seemed to be in a state of serious and worrying psychological distress. Overall, it appears that our police officers are not sufficiently trained to intervene in such situations. It is also stated in a previous report of the P Committee that a general knowledge of the phenomenon seems necessary as well as the development of a single police approach, preferably on the basis of a multidisciplinary vision. At present, police unions are still concerned about the lack of training in the management of such a syndrome and the methodology to be applied in such cases, despite the demands made in recent years. If this is the case, could you tell us why no medical services were requested for this intervention? Is the management of this syndrome an integral part of the training of our police officers? Is a clear procedure for this type of situation or, where appropriate, can it be implemented quickly in consultation with the police unions and the field? In addition to training and developing an adequate intervention procedure, what other measures can you implement so that this no longer happens? SLFP Police would also like to make the arrival of administrative police officers on the scene systematic in the context of administrative arrests. What is your position with respect to this request? After hearing the facts in the press, Mr. Des enfants, Director-General of the Administrative Police, stated that he had not been informed of the existence of these images. He decided on his own initiative last week to temporarily withdraw from his post. At the same time, the head of the aviation police, Mr. Elst, recently did the same, having been ordered to do so. Why have the information never been raised within the hierarchy, as we can read in the press? What are the elements of an internal investigation to identify alleged disclosure failures in this situation? Have any specific measures in this regard already been taken or will they be taken in the near future? If so, which ones? With regard to foreign affairs, Minister Goffin has duly informed you, Ministers, of the steps taken in accordance with the rules, with the necessary and indispensable transparency. Ministers, I repeat, there is still much to be done on this issue. Let us not replace the competent services in this field, but let us try to find solutions together and quickly so that such a tragedy never happens again!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u30	Colleagues, shocking were the footage, certainly of the cops' behavior. They were cheerful, laughing and even bringing Hitler greetings, while someone is dying. Indeed, this cannot be without consequences. Some have emphasized that such behaviour besmirches the image of our police force, while a very large majority of police officers work in a very respectful way. There are questions about transparency. Excuse me, but there's someone here who doesn't believe it. I don't think anyone was aware of the police hierarchy. How could that be? They really didn't know? How is it that no one is aware of the exact events, when the death did make it to the press? Doesn't a superior ask him or her to show the footage? Does that make sense? There must have been a ringing bell in the hierarchy, for example in February 2018 when the Slovak Embassy contacted the Foreign Affairs Protocol Service and asked for more information. Did they not inform the hierarchy of the federal police? I don't think everything happened just by accident. It is then very simple not to punish those concerned, because they knew nothing about it. I find it strange and it even hurts me that some of the people involved have not yet been suspended. First of all, the agent who delivered the Hitler greeting is apparently no longer allowed to carry out operational tasks. Is there another disciplinary investigation into the police officer? Was that started immediately after the facts? If not, why not? Were the other agents who are visible on the footage and can be accused of being guilty transferred? Was a disciplinary investigation started against them? If sanctions have not yet been imposed or disciplinary investigations have not been initiated, what is the reason for this? Secondly, the P Committee deals with monitoring investigations and complaints and declarations. And yes, the Polls department has taken action, under the mandate of the magistrate, to investigate what has happened. This does not mean that the P Committee can no longer play a role. It should be kept up to date. Ten years ago, the P Committee made recommendations following the death of Jonathan Jacobs in a police cell in Mortsel, an incident that was also discussed extensively in our committee. As a supervisory body for our police services, the P Committee has a very important role to play in the event of abuses. Was the P Committee immediately informed of the events? Then did the P Committee immediately take action? Has the P Committee been kept informed of internal investigations and disciplinary investigations? If not, shouldn't that become an automatism? Were the recommendations of the P Committee followed here as a result of Jonathan Jacobs' death? Do you, as Minister, have the impression that the entire apparatus of the federal police is following these recommendations properly? Finally, the victim was apparently not under the influence of alcohol or drugs. He also had a valid plane ticket. So we're assuming some kind of psychosis with the victim. There are currently no guidelines on how to deal with such persons. When we find that a cop sat on the victim's face for minutes and his heart, when the nurse or doctor arrived and tried to give the man a sedative, wasn't even right anymore, it's obvious that we need to develop procedures. I believe that these procedures should be included in police training or offered as further training. That's very important. Were all the procedures in force followed during intervention? Where did it go wrong? Were there too many or too few agents present? Were the paramedics called in on time? Did a doctor get called in on time? Are there specific guidelines to follow when agents come into contact with people in psychosis? If so, were they followed in the intervention at Charleroi airport? If not, do you think it would be useful to give such directives in the future? In future, can adequate attention be given to dealing with people in psychosis in police training?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u31	Then there is a question from Mr Moutquin, but he is no longer here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u32	Madam Chair, he is being held in another meeting, can we turn his question into a written question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u33	No, that is not possible in a topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u34	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues from the United Commissions and dear fellow Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen, I deeply appreciate your shared efforts to organise this topical debate on the serious incident at Charleroi airport. I very much appreciate your efforts to organise a topical debate on the footage of police action at Charleroi Airport which has recently appeared in the media. That also gives me the opportunity and opportunity to go over the objective facts and shed my light on the matter, in so far as the ongoing judicial investigation is not harmed and therefore allows it. I will try, as several Members have asked, to clarify all the questions. In addition, I must respect the medical secret, nor can I replace the disciplinary authorities, nor can I make preliminaries, directly or indirectly, on the decisions of disciplinary authorities. Before answering your questions, I would like to express my condolences to the wife, daughter and family of the victim, Mr Chovanec. The images have made a deep impression on me. You, ladies and gentlemen, are simply my duty to defend the action of the police in general and always to place it in the right context. The appeals of authority in our country and therefore also the police force deserve at least understanding in many circumstances, which does not mean that I would like to condone the reprehensible behaviour of policemen, quite the contrary. Let me also be very clear about this particular incident. I was not aware of what happened at Charleroi airport, nor did I have any knowledge of the images that we were aware of afterwards. When I arrived at the beginning of December 2018 and when I took over the files, I was not informed about any incident that took place at Gosselies airport. The briefing I received from the current Commissioner-General of the Integrated Police was also not a reference to this matter. Once again, there was no disciplinary file on this incident submitted to me for signature. However, since my appointment, I have made decisions in 168 disciplinary cases. In order to assess this case, it is important to also have knowledge of the facts behind the images. I would like to stress that I cannot elaborate on this because I cannot and will not harm the secret of the investigation. The incident took place on 23 February 2018 at Charleroi Airport, as mentioned earlier, about nine months before I became Minister of Security and Home Affairs. The victim, a 38-year-old man of Slovak nationality, wanted to take a flight to Bratislava in Slovakia on the same day. According to the information provided to me, after pushing a stewardess, the man gained access to the cabin of the plane and had to leave the plane under the authority of the pilot because of his aggressive behaviour. The aviation police of Gosselies carried out an intervention and in the end no less than ten police officers intervened in order to transfer him to the offices of the aviation police. There were also some policemen who suffered injuries. At the request of the competent parquet magistraat, the man was examined by a physician, who stated that the person concerned was found fit for detention in the cell. During the night it was found that he struck several times to bleed with his head against the cell door. The MUG was then called up. The MUG came to the scene and administered a sedative. A few moments later, the person concerned went into cardiac arrest. After CPR, he was transferred unconsciously to the hospital, where he died on February 27th. The press reports those days that "according to Slovak public service broadcasting there would be a possible link between police action in our country and his death." This investigation was entrusted to the parish of Charleroi. In February 2018, the FPS Foreign Affairs Office was contacted about this incident, in which there was contact with the P Committee. The current Commissioner-General informed me that the federal police were informed on 27 February at 18.42 hours at the level of the protocol officer of the federal police and the note verbale of the Slovak ambassador was also communicated to the federal police. So the federal police were aware of the incident in themselves, but not of the footage. This incident was also included in the Federal Police press review. It is my belief that press reviews are read by all interested stakeholders and managers. Whatever was done internally with that information at the top of federal police, I don't know. The Foreign Minister informed me yesterday, on 25 August, at 6:41 p.m. that on 2 July 2018, the Director B1.1 will receive the Slovak Ambassador in Brussels. The Slovak ambassador returns to the death of Jozef Chovanec and declares that he has meanwhile been in contact with Minister Jan Jambon about this death. The report of the discussion between Director B1.1 and the Slovak Ambassador will be delivered to the Head of the Cabinet of Minister Jan Jambon on 4 July. I can also report that the Home Office would have received the Slovak ambassador earlier on 2 March 2018. The images that have appeared in the media over the past week show how the man was restrained by members of the aviation police and show fascist gestures by a police officer, who in themselves are reprehensible and in no way consistent with the dignity of the police officer and the professionalism that can be expected of them. The facts must also be assessed in the context of each investigation. Thus, in each investigation, the factual context must also be assessed. First, it should be examined whether the use of coercion by the police is necessary to protect the detainee against himself or against others. Moreover, the proportionality of the exercise of coercive measures must also be assessed (in other words, the constraint must be proportional to the threat). Finally, it is necessary to assess whether the use of coercion constitutes or has influenced the cause of death. In this case, it is certain that the inmate was particularly agitated and had characteristics of what the medical jargon describes as "agitated delirium syndrome". According to the literature, this syndrome is characterized by extremely aggressive behaviour and non-compliance with first aid and police orders. The person seems extraordinarily strong, does not get tired despite a great effort and is insensitive to pain. From a medical point of view, this syndrome is characterized by hyperthermia, acidification, metabolic acidosis and rhabdomyolysis (degradation of muscle tissue). In addition, a fight with the police can exacerbate the excitement and put the heart to a severe test. In addition, I would like to inform you about the creation, at the end of 2018, of a multidisciplinary working group to develop a uniform approach for all front-line police forces facing a person with characteristics of agitated delirium syndrome, acute psychosis or similar behaviour. This working group, composed of police officers, magistrates and doctors, has developed a multidisciplinary approach that has been integrated into training for all personnel of the integrated police front-line services, regardless of their rank. The aim of the training is to identify the syndrome, to respond adequately and to apply appropriate techniques. Early this year, the training was submitted to the National Police Academy and for formal approval by the Senior Consultation Committee, but the file was delayed due to the VOCID-19 pandemic. In the meantime, the knowledge gained was shared with different police areas as well as with the federal police during the information sessions. To date, 973 police officers and members of the broader security chain have participated in this briefing. In addition, training on agitated delirium syndrome was provided to members of special units of the local police and members of special units of the federal police as part of the "Agir in confined spaces" training. The basic training consists of 188 hours of violence control. In addition, the GPI 48 provides a minimum of 20 hours of training per 12-month period, including an evaluation. The basic training also includes 24 hours of ethics training and a visit to the Dossin barracks. The judicial investigation will have to determine whether the exercise of coercion was appropriate and proportionate. The aviation police (LPA) and the Executive Board of the Administrative Police (DAO) were informed of the incident, but did not have access to the camera footage when it was already part of the judicial investigation. Neither the director of the aviation police nor the director-general of the administrative police would have been aware of the after-sickness or the inappropriate atmosphere in the cell. The investigating judge can make broader investigations than the disciplinary authorities, for example an autopsy. Consequently, in view of the duty of care, it might be wise to await the outcome of the judicial investigation in order to link the possible disciplinary consequences to it, especially as the facts were largely caught by the secret of the investigation. This assessment is primarily for the disciplinary authorities and not for me as Minister of the Interior for the members of the basic federal police framework. After recently seeing the footage, the federal police have taken order measures pending the results of the judicial investigation and possible disciplinary sanctions. In the meantime, the Director-General of the General Executive Board of the Administrative Police has stepped aside and the director of the aviation police was reassigned by order. A crisis manager was also appointed to assist the new director of the aviation police. The inspector concerned, who delivered the Hitler greetings, was also transferred to a post without contact with the public by order measure, pending the outcome of the judicial and disciplinary investigation. Finally, the Director-General of the Administrative Police instructed the Internal Supervision Service to request immediate access to the judicial investigation. Federal police got access to the file on Monday, August 24th. That counts 1,600 pages and has not yet been completed. The analysis of the judicial investigation is under way. This allows a preliminary examination of the individual actions of the agents concerned on the one hand and of the flow of information in the hierarchy on the other. I insist that all investigations are carried out thoroughly, that lessons are learned from this particularly tragic event and that they can also be translated into practice. The Commissioner-General of the Federal Police is fully committed to this. I will also propose that training on de-escalation in such a police action, which I have just mentioned, be integrated into basic training in our police schools. Pending the completion of the judicial investigation, I believe that you have been informed of this as fully as possible, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I too would like to express my condolences to the widow and the victim's family for the death and long wait. You will take into account in my reply the fact that I cannot influence the disciplinary and criminal outcome of these facts. I won't color them in that perspective. As you know, before television, I indicated that I found the gestures made in the police cell inappropriate, inappropriate and totally disproportionate. That is a statement that I do not wish to come back to without qualifying for disciplinary or criminal law. My answers to your questions are general in nature and I will go into some of your questions in detail per Member. With regard to these dramatic events, I should like to give you an overview of the interventions and investigative actions taken by the Charleroi Public Prosecutor's Office and the investigating judge. You will deduce the progress and the state of the situation. I would point out, however, that this criminal case is the subject of a judicial investigation under the direction of an independent investigating judge and that I cannot, therefore, communicate almost any substantive elements, let alone the results or conclusions, because of the secrecy of the investigation. On Friday evening 23 February 2018, Charleroi airport police contacted the magistrate of the Charleroi parquet around 19.45 hours. In the preceding hour from approximately 6:45 p.m. onwards, the person concerned had given himself an aggressive way through the check-in desk from the airport to the plane, without wishing to submit to any control. The commander decided he had to get off the plane and not board it. Afterwards, the person concerned was transferred from the tarmac via the terminal to a police cell after much effort. After these facts, the officer in charge of the airport police ordered that a report be drawn up for resistance and to inform the court. That was around 7:45. The magistrate of the service decided to make a judicial arrest and to preserve the camera footage of the person concerned's course, inside and outside the airport. The parquet magistraat also ordered the police to consult a doctor for the treatment of possible injuries and to check whether the person concerned was fit to be locked in a police cell. The magistrate asked to be contacted again after an interrogation that had to take place the next morning. It was proposed 9 a.m. The police contacted an external medical service immediately afterwards to send a doctor. After rapture by the police, the doctor arrived at the scene at 11:25 p.m. He stayed until 11:46. The doctor certified that the person concerned was fit to remain locked in a cell. At 05.50 a.m. Saturday morning 24 February, the police again contacted the magistrate of duty. This magistrate of the parquet ordered that all known information on the medical condition of the person concerned be communicated to the health care providers of the hospital and that the situation be further monitored. In view of the new situation, the interview was obviously postponed and was asked to transfer the pv's to the parquet by 09.00 in the morning. At 7.50 p.m. that same morning, there was a third contact with the parquet. The magistrate decided, among other things, to lift the judicial arrest and, in the event of a serious death, after all, at that time the cardiac arrest had already taken place and the body was impounded. On Sunday 25 February at 16.55 hrs there was again contact between the police and the parquet. The magistrate of the parquet ordered an investigation to be opened for involuntary beatings and injuries, to attach this to the file of rebellion and a video, which had now appeared in the Slovak media about the actions of the person concerned on the plane, also to be attached to the file and to identify the filmer as a witness. The magistrate also decided to get the file to act that the video footage made at the airport and in the police cell had already been confiscated. On Tuesday, February 27, 2018, the wife of the person concerned lodged a civil suit with the investigating judge of Charleroi. At that time, the person concerned had not yet died. The Public Prosecutor's Office shall immediately forward all documents of its judicial information to the investigating judge to be added to its judicial investigation. After the death later that day, the investigating judge, the prosecutor, the P Committee, the local Charleroi police and the judicial lab raided the site. An interim communication was made by the Charleroi Public Prosecutor's Office the following day, on 28 February 2018. This prosecutor's office provides the press with data on this case, as it has held that the public interest requires such communication, as provided for in article 57 of the Code of Criminal Investigation. As of 27 February 2018, the investigation will be in the hands of the investigating judge who will give orders to law doctors and toxicologists on 27 and 28 February 2018 for the purposes of autopsy, anatomopathology, blood sampling and prev elements and toxic analysis. On 4 May 2018, the experts presented their report on the autopsy and on toxicology. On 25 June 2018, the report of the anatomopathology study was submitted. In addition to the claims to the court experts, more than sixty interviews were carried out by the P Committee at the request of the investigating judge in the period from 28 February to 28 June 2018. It involved interviews of the police officers, airport staff, care staff, ambulances and acquaintances and relatives of the victim. The doctor who was the first to examine the condition of the person concerned was also questioned by the P Committee, in particular on 28 June 2018 and on 15 March 2019. On 3 October 2018, the investigating judge made two additional claims against the legal experts, the law doctors and toxicologists. The mandates imposed were intended to allow the various experts to draw up a final report following the examination of each other's reports and the hospital medical records seized. The investigating judge sent for this on 21 February 2019, on 23 March 2019 and on 30 March 2019. The final reports were submitted on 30 April 2019. As mentioned above, the first interim doctor was interviewed for a second time on 15 March 2019. On 16 September 2019, the investigating judge refused the prosecutor's request for a reconstruction. On 14 January 2020, the second interim doctor was interviewed by the investigating judge with the assistance of the law doctor. The previously foreseen interviews of that second interim doctor on 14 November 2019 and on 10 December 2019 could not take place due to calendar problems. On 19 January 2020, the investigating judge shall communicate the file to the prosecutor with a view to bringing a final action before the council chamber, the so-called settlement of justice. In view of the additional investigation granted to the civil parties, following its request of 4 February 2020, no final claim was requested and no fixation was requested for the council because the judicial investigation was not concluded following that additional investigation. It is important to note that the bourgeois party has twice exercised its right to ask for additional investigative actions, namely already on 25 January 2019, when the bourgeois party called for interrogation of the second interim physician, and on 4 February 2020. The latter request was supplemented and amended on 21 February 2020, including with regard to the interrogation of members of the Order of Doctors with regard to the actions made on the Friday evening and the night of 23 on 24 February 2018 by the doctors acting and by the police officers. All research actions requested were authorised and ordered by the investigating judge after positive advice from the court. One of the doctors was interrogated by the investigating judge with the assistance of a law doctor, on 14 January 2020, and the police officers were again questioned in May 2020. It should also be noted, as an important element in the conduct of the judicial investigation, that the civil party added its own expert report to the file, thus a counter-expertise, on 27 May 2020. In order to guarantee the contradiction between the assessments, the investigating judge again, on 12 June 2020, requested a report from the forensic doctor, taking into account the counter-expertise mentioned and the statements of the doctors involved in the evening and night of the facts. On 23 August 2020, the investigating judge appointed an expert psychiatrist, in addition to forensic doctors, to investigate the causes of Mr. Chovanek's death. The investigating judge decided yesterday, on 25 August 2020, to carry out a reconstitution at the airport. It will take place in the presence of the investigating judge, the prosecutor, police investigators, judicial experts, the civil party, his lawyer and the expert chosen by the civil party. The civil parties have asked seven times for access to the file and have received seven times, after positive advice from the public prosecutor. On 27 March 2018, 12 July 2018, 28 January 2019, 11 June 2019, 1 October 2019, 27 January 2020 and 19 May 2020, the investigating judge gave the bourgeois party access to the file. The judicial investigation is still ongoing. At the end of the investigation, the investigating judge will communicate the file to the court for final action. It is then up to the board to decide whether and for which persons the case is referred to the criminal court on the substance for ultimate trial. I come to the more specific questions of Mrs Matz and Mrs De Wit on who knew what. The death of Mr Chovanec was reported in the press on 28 February 2018, as I mentioned earlier. From this, it could be concluded that the prosecutor and the investigating judge had initiated an investigation and that the police officers concerned were part of the administrative police. After seeing the images and reading of the press releases last Wednesday 19 August, I had my cabinet contacted the Attorney General of Mons, Mr de la Serna, for further information. That's what happened the next few days. In my reply you will find all the information we have received from him in the last few days. As Minister of Justice and therefore a member of the executive, under Article 151 of the Constitution, I have no control over the conduct of individual criminal investigations by the public prosecutor or the investigating judge, or any specific inspection. The specific files, including video images, should therefore not be delivered to me. Mrs Slegers and Mr Colebunders had questions about the emergence of the video footage. The review of the course of the investigation, which I have just given, shows that on Friday evening 23 February 2018, around 19.45 p.m., the parquet magistraat of duty ordered the police to keep the camera footage of the person concerned's course in an outside the airport, as he also ordered at that time to check whether the person concerned could remain in a police cell in view of his state of health and a doctor was ordered to carry out that mission. He said later that there was no problem. The magistrate also recommends that on Sunday 25 February 2018 around 16.55 hours to act in the file that the video footage made at the airport and in the police cell, had already been confiscated. As of 27 February 2018, all documents of the public prosecutor's file, including the video footage, will be subject to the investigation court's file in accordance with our criminal proceedings. During the stay on site on that day the images are also viewed by the parquet of Charleroi. Mr Segers asks whether the disciplinary authorities were informed by the Justice Department, that is to say the Public Prosecutor's Office. I put the question to the court. Article 26 of the Law of 13 May 1999 on the disciplinary status of the police does indeed point out that the judicial authorities are responsible for disciplinary action for police officers, informing them of facts which may constitute a disciplinary offence. The public prosecutor replied to me that in these judicial authorities it was no longer necessary to inform the disciplinary authorities, given that the circumstances and the facts had already been made public by the public authorities after a few days. In addition, the events were already known to the police via the video footage provided by the prosecutor and the investigating judge and through the superiors of the police officers of the airport police. I can also report that the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment of OPCAT will be ratified once the prevention mechanism has been established. I do not hide the fact that I am very attached to this, but one cannot move everything as one wishes, Mr Van Hecke. I hope you'll find that one day in the execution. Several hypotheses were investigated. A consultation with all stakeholders and stakeholders was planned on 2 April 2020. Unfortunately, the consultation had to be postponed because of the health crisis. It is still difficult to organise this, given the large number of partners. My administration is in the process of setting up an alternative method of conducting this dialogue with all parties. The final decision will be with the next government, but if it depends on me, there will be clear recommendations before the end of the year. As regards the communication between Justice and the Slovak Embassy, Foreign Affairs will receive a verbal note from the Slovak Embassy with a request for information on 12 March 2018. The State Department directly asks the competent court for information in order to inform the embassy. On 30 March 2018, the parquet confirmed the reception. It confirms that there is an ongoing investigation and the Foreign Office informs the Slovak Embassy of the details it provided to the Foreign Office. In the course of 2019 and 2020, the State Department will contact the State Department three more times with the demand for the state of affairs. The public prosecutor's response is always delivered directly to the Slovak embassy. Mr Laaouej, in reply to your question on the general threat of the far right within the police, I can tell you, after having checked with the services concerned, that neither the OCAM nor the Sûreté de l'Etat has produced an analysis or a note indicating a specific threat of this kind within the police. Ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that, after six years of being a Minister of Justice, there is bound to be an investigation of conscience as to whether the incident was known and whether it should have been known. It cannot be ruled out that I read the press release that was distributed by the public prosecutor at the time in the press. I read a lot of press, like most of you. I'm sorry I haven't noticed, but if you read that press release again, you'll find that it looked like a relatively innocent press release. If that press release had been related to the prison system, such as yesterday's murder of a prisoner in Leuven's aid prison, I would, as always, immediately instruct my cabinet to look at the facts. Just yesterday, I noticed that in Genk, in the Carma police area, a person died after police intervention. I saw that. It's about the local administrative police. I have a sense of that, but since it's about the administrative police, I'm not interfering. I only do that when it comes to my services, the prison and the judicial police. But the judicial police aren't involved. That is how the reflexes are in my head and I cannot do much about it, because there are a lot of things in this country that keep the attention of the press and of the criminal court going. I have also tormented my conscience, because I have the best contacts with the parquet magistraat responsible for police violence and violence against the police and I am also attorney general in Hainaut, Mr de la Serna, and have negotiated with him, together with the police unions, the circular letter on the violence against the police and the violence by the police in 2017. You can imagine that I met him a lot at that time and now. After all, in May 2018, Mawda died and that also happened in Charleroi. I didn't get any knowledge of the facts at Charleroi airport. Now, is that abnormal? Our Constitution provides for the total independence of the public prosecutor and for the even greater independence of the investigating judge, of course. The file in question has already been submitted to the investigating court by the bourgeois parties after a few hours. At that time, the court is no longer actively involved in the follow-up of that file. That also explains, in my opinion, why the court, which does not need to inform me at all, has not informed me. With regard to the control of violence in police cells, I would like to conclude by saying that, in the context of the review of the 1990 law on the person of the mentally ill colleague De Block and myself, a working group has been set up to set up in hospitals specific high-level units to deal with people who are in a serious state of excitement, aggression or danger and show signs of psychosis, influence or drugs. If, therefore, the appointed doctor finds that the stay in a police cell has not been designated, those high-level units will in future have to allow the person concerned to be treated correctly, even if, in the strict sense of the word, it is not a mentally ill person, as referred to in the Law of 26 June 1990, even if it is someone suffering from EDS syndrome.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u36	I thank both ministers. That's how we get to the replies. I use the same order as that of the questions as they were submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u37	Madam President, Ministers, I have listened carefully to your explanations. I was hoping for much more information than we'd already gotten out of the media. I understand the sensitivity surrounding the criminal record or the investigations that are taking place around it. Let's be honest, we all saw the footage last week. I think we at PVDA were one of the first to convene the committee. Many have followed us. We had this all settled for a while because we got news from the press every day, but weird. I thought we'd get that here, but we got it out of the press. I can't say that I'm relieved after the explanations I've heard in this committee, I'm honest with you. We hear a lot of mistakes have happened, but I'm still worried. Last week we were shocked, now we are here and we each have two minutes to ask each minister our questions. The ministers have had time to defend themselves or to explain themselves to us. However, this can't stop. What have we learned from the past? We have just heard a right-wing party saying that we should not exaggerate either, that this could be a single case. There are a lot of cops who do their job very well. I'm really convinced that you're going to be a police officer to help the people. I do think there should be a zero tolerance in the police to all those fascist tendencies that can happen there. Mr De Crem, you mentioned earlier that Committee P had been informed but had not seen the images. Let me ask you some big questions. I'm sure you had that footage, too. What worries me is that Minister Jambon, then Minister, was partly aware, but not here today. I would really like to hear about what has happened, and I am addressing the other colleagues. I may have misunderstood, but Minister De Crem said there had been an order to lock up, while Minister None said there was an order to consult the doctor and immediately reconnect to see if he could stay locked up. That didn't happen. It didn't happen until six hours later. Was there an order to lock up immediately or was there an order to lock up until the doctor's verdict arrived and immediately forward it to the magistrate? I just want to be very clear about everything. I would remind you that last year the PVDA asked for hearings on cover-up and culture of silence in some areas. We've seen the RTBF's reports on sexual harassment and harassment. That was in those reports back then. We see again how certain rotten apples are held above our heads. At that time, certain parties refused the hearings because an investigation had already been carried out by the P Committee. So that doesn't seem to work to bring things to light. We really need to have a public debate on this right now. We really shouldn't let the rotten apples ruin the atmosphere anymore. Hopefully, I really mean it, the right-wing parties will support our question for hearings now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u38	Madam President, I would like to thank the ministers for the thorough and transparent explanation given to the committee. It is clear that this has gone wrong during the incident and that this needs to be investigated to the bone. It is also clear that Minister De Crem was not briefed on this dossier when he took office as Minister in current cases. I would like to add that it is a pity that we cannot ask our questions to Mr Jambon at the time. What is even more important is that we now draw the right conclusions. These are urgent and it is also urgent to introduce the necessary procedures and directives. As far as the legal part is concerned, the Minister will not blame me for calling for the speedy conclusion of the investigation. I know that the Minister and that we, the legislature, cannot intervene in this, but let it be a clear public appeal to Justice and the prosecutor that it is time for conclusions to be concluded after two and a half years of study. Many questions were asked, including by the bourgeois parties, who were fortunately accepted and investigated, but it is time to draw conclusions for the sake of the next of kin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u39	Madam President, I would like to thank the Ministers for their comprehensive answers. We all know that not all the answers were given today. We still have a lot of work to do, because there are a lot of aspects that we will have to deal with in the coming weeks, months and years. Thank you, Minister, for the chronology of the judicial investigation. I think this is very important. However, it remains clear that all this has taken a very long time. I believe that the first two or three months have gone very quickly. It is then seen that a lot of interviews and investigations have taken place. The first medical expertise has also been delivered relatively quickly to Belgian standards, namely after two to three months. But then it's all that sticks. The delay, evident from your chronology, has nothing to do with corona. The long duration has nothing to do with corona. Perhaps the parquet speaker will think twice before she uses such arguments for the camera? The survey also shows that the questions of the bourgeois parties, who indeed have the right to ask for additional investigations, were not unjustified. I note that in September 2019 a reconstruction, requested by the parquet, was refused. Yesterday, under pressure from the circumstances, the investigating judge decided on a reconstruction. We lose a year because of that. The reconstruction could have cleared up a lot. It's delicate and we don't know the fine thing about it, but the role of the doctors is very important. I think it's the first doctor I've ever seen. He had to judge whether the person concerned was capable of being locked up. We cannot express our opinion on this, but I think it is important that the investigation on this matter be carried out in detail and in detail. The chronology is important. There is no question of delay by the bourgeois parties. Justice has just been working too slow here. We hear from Minister De Crem that his predecessor was apparently formally informed of the incident. Until a few days ago, that steel hard was denied. It has also been said for television cameras that Minister Jambon was not aware of this matter. I believe that we will have to take steps to question the former Minister on this matter. He has a different function now, and this may not be that simple, but I believe that there may be some clarification as to what has happened and what he has taken note of. The Minister of Justice has just said that such matters are being followed and that instructions are being given if necessary. I shall now come to my final point, namely the need for additional research. The judicial investigation must be carried out very thoroughly, but I also believe that it is particularly important that the Supreme Court, which has already requested the necessary information, should also be able to carry out an in-depth investigation. They have shown in the Julie Van Espen case that they are able to do very thorough and thorough work on the way in which a judicial investigation is conducted. I hope that the Supreme Court will do the same with the same intensity and decisiveness as in the Julie Van Espen case. After all, we can learn a great deal of lessons from that. At the same time, I believe that the P Committee should also be able to play a more active role in investigating what is wrong in certain services. In this case, it concerns the aviation police. However, this debate must be held in another committee. Mr Minister, police, Justice, Security, this will be a serious task and a major challenge for the coming years and for the new government. I hope that the necessary energy and resources will be made available for this purpose, because I believe that we have a very large and difficult task ahead of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u40	Minister De Crem has been clear, and I am quite astonished: obviously, on the basis of the elements he has given us, both the police hierarchy and the Minister of the Interior – namely his predecessor Mr Jambon – were informed. At the very least, they knew that a person had had to be transported to a coma hospital following a police intervention, and then died. The question then arose: if the Minister of the Interior had been informed of the incident, what follow-up would be given to that information? While there were human deaths, what measures were taken subsequently, not within the judicial framework since the prosecutor's office had been seized, but within the disciplinary framework, in other words in Mr Jambon's head, as in that of the high police hierarchy? What actions have been taken to follow up administratively on the facts brought to their attention in the context of a diplomatic incident? The situation is serious, so we will inevitably have to hear from Mr. De Crem, just as we will have to hear from the Commissioner General of the Federal Police. We will have to take a decision on this point before the end of our work. Indeed, if it appears that no action has been taken by the police hierarchy and by the Minister of the Interior on all the information transmitted to them, then the question arises as to whether there has been inertia or impunity. We will have to answer that question. For the rest, Mr Geens, we will have to clarify – when reading the report you have presented to us – the nature of the information transmitted by the Public Prosecutor's Office to the police authorities. It will be necessary to be able to identify the exact content so that we can see what the police, at the highest level, have done with the information that the prosecutor's office has been able to transmit to it. In the same way, we will need a more precise detail of the content of the press conference given by the Prosecutor's Office. I would like to inform my colleagues – but those who sit are probably already aware – that a meeting of the P Committee Follow-up Committee will be held on Monday afternoon, at which we will have the opportunity to take stock with the representatives of P Committee. In other words, Madam Chair, we come out here with a series of additional questions that will need to be explored. But, whatever happens, I will punctuate with this terrible sentence spoken by Mr. Chovanec's father saying, which is heavy to hear: "You would not have treated an animal as you treated my son." I think these words are to be meditated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. As I said, for us, the core of this story lies with the security and police forces rather than following up on the images at the moment and immediately after the facts. The role of Minister Jambon will shortly be discussed by Mr Kitir in her reply. As far as the additional investigative actions requested by the victim's family are concerned, I still think it is faint and incorrect that this was referred to in order to explain the delay. Referring to corona was too faint, all the more so because the family has the perfect right. It's part of the normal course of events. It's a good thing the family did this. This is not about delay. You referred briefly to the role of the public prosecutor and the supervision of pending judicial investigations. That supervision is the legal function of the Public Prosecutor General. The court that follows the judicial investigation of the investigating judge writes a progress report at regular intervals and sends it to the prosecutor-general. That is normally aware of all the steps of the investigation and can take the initiative if the investigation takes too long. For example, it could bring the file before the AI. That is why I would like to ask you how this was carried out in a very concrete manner by the Public Prosecutor General. Finally, I would like to thank you for the answer on the existence of the legal obligation of the judiciary to inform the disciplinary authorities. I do not understand why the judicial authorities would no longer have deemed it necessary to inform the disciplinary authorities, because the article to which you refer does not, in my view, contain an opportunity or opportunity. The communication that had already been published in the press should not have been referred to. People should have just done this. In my view, misunderstandings are just avoided in this way, even because it is a legal obligation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u42	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset I announced what I expected of this committee, namely to obtain objective facts, an event, the chronology of events, the contacts made. I would therefore like to thank the ministers and, in particular, Minister Geens for the precision he has shown when he told us about these events. Some elements probably escaped me or seemed contradictory to me. But I will read with great attention the full account of your answer. In any event, the evidence you have given us confirms that we are only in the first stage and warrant that we hear the actors in place at the time. I agree with you, Mr. Geens, when you talk about the convocation of the prosecutor's office. Indeed, this communication did not allow us to imagine what really happened and what we are discovering today. I am therefore quite surprised inasmuch as I imagine that the videos were available and that the officials saw, in addition to the way in which the events took place, the gestures that were made, in particular by the agent who made the Nazi salvation. And it must be noted that this has not given rise to any reaction at the level of the public prosecutor's office. So I'm pretty surprised. Therefore, I can only follow you on this aspect. Indeed, on the basis of the communication that was made, it was not possible to doubt what had actually happened. I also find it difficult to understand the refusal of a first reconstitution, even if a decision was taken yesterday, no doubt, as my colleague said, under pressure. I therefore very much expect from the inquiry of the Supreme Council of Justice to have answers on these amazing positions taken by the actors of the justice system, even if I imagine that we will not get them right away since the investigation is under way. However, the Supreme Council of Justice has already demonstrated the quality of this work. So I am counting once again on him to try to shed light on this case. I would now like to return to one element. I didn't read anywhere, or hear that our police were fascist because an agent made a Nazi salutation. I don't think anyone thinks so. On the other hand, it is not only this gesture that undermines the entire institution, but it is the general silence of the institution around this case that casts reproach on the whole. I believe that an institution to be respected must be respectable. While I welcome the statements of some of the police union leaders who strongly condemned the gesture, I regret that it took two and a half years for this word to stand. I think it is urgent that we collectively think about what is expected of our police services today: with them, because it is true, some have said it before me and I repeat it without any ambiguity, I think that the first victim – the word is too strong – of individual acts is the police institution itself. It would benefit from restoring trust and credibility by systematically denouncing individual acts as actually individual acts, not condoning, not playing omerta. That is what has cast a great deal of reproach on the institution. Finally, hearing Mr. From Crem on the subject of the knowledge of the previous competent minister, I would like to say that we have the proof here that it is not enough to roll mechanics, to hold security speeches to ensure the safety of our fellow citizens. I would like all of my colleagues here to keep this in mind so that we can get out of the caricatures that we sometimes make positions of each other, so that we can think together not about a sense of security but about ensuring the safety of our fellow citizens. That's what I had to say at this point. I also plead with others before me to continue the work. As the judicial investigation is under way, the continuation of our work may not be for next week, but in any case, we must already agree on the continuation of the work. There is also a need for faster progress on the issue of political responsibilities. My group is calling for a series of hearings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u43	Madam President, I thank you, as I thank the two Ministers for the comprehensiveness of their responses. We asked for clarity at the beginning of the committee, at least we already have it on a number of facts. I do not hide from you that it was completely stunned that I heard you, Minister, recount the objective facts, particularly as regards your predecessor and his knowledge of the facts dating back to July 2018. In my speech, I suggested that the federal police could not be unaware. The media questioned me at the entrance asking if I was questioning Jan Jambon's speech. And I said, in good faith, I didn't see any reason why he would lie about not knowing the facts. It is therefore true that I am stunned, and I feel that I may have shown very great naivety if he were actually aware of it. It's not a political posture I'm taking here. The fact that he is aware necessarily implies other acts and other consequences. He was aware and therefore, regardless of the criminal procedure that took place, he had the obligation, in any case, the duty to initiate judicial proceedings. He may do so himself when he is an officer, or he may ask the federal police authority to do so if it is another rank. I'll give you the details of the grades for which it's one or the other who does it. That is the question, too. As I said at the beginning of this commission, if at some point one does not target, or if one removes a responsibility from one or the other, it is on the whole police force that one casts reproach. Now the reproach is thrown on the whole. There are reports of suspicion about the police. However, if from the beginning, that is, as soon as he knows the facts, disciplinary proceedings are initiated, regardless of the criminal aspect, we would now know whether or not there are responsibilities to be established with regard to the agents who intervened that evening at Charleroi airport. This is not a political posture. That's not at all. This is because it does involve quite significant consequences. For the past two days, I have been asking – and I had written to the presidents of the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Justice – for the hearing of the Commissioner-General, since there has also been nothing at the level of the federal police. I now request the hearing of your predecessor, the Minister of the Interior, who had known about it since July 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u44	Thank you, Minister. I think everyone will have held back today, after the game of "who knew what?", the question that actually arises is: "Who did what?" We insist and ask for further clarification. We are only at the beginning of a clarification necessary to restore confidence in our administration, our agents, our policies. Our citizens, more than ever, need it at times when citizens' adherence to some of our policies raises questions. I also need to feel that there is a real policy in terms of police training and selection. In fact, we are all convinced that our police officers are, for the most part (99.9%) of high quality, motivated by the function, eager to render service to citizens, but it is also necessary to offer them tools to achieve this so that these tragedies no longer happen: specific trainings to deal with this type of incident, certainly for the airport police. I would like to know more about the frequency of these trainings, their content, those who provide them. On the other hand, I would like to have more information on the selections: how is it possible that in the selection and training processes it is not, at some point, detected that there are risks for some of our police officers to adopt behaviors like those we have seen and which are, we all said, unacceptable and which do not reflect the image of the police, but which undermines it and that of Belgium abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u45	Gentlemen ministers, thank you for the chronology that puts certain things in perspective. The answer given here is not very negative. We can't go over it lightly. Allow me to quote a tweet by Mr Francken: "I was Secretary of State when the Slovak gentleman let live in Charleroi. Jan Jambon was Minister of the Interior. It is unbelievable that none of us were informed of death, nor of Hitler's greetings." However, from the answer given today, I remember that the Minister of the Interior was aware, which makes this tweet a lie and is incorrect. I do not think that we should be light-hearted about this. In the following tweet, Mr Francken raised the question of who was still informed and participated in the cover-up. How cynical can it be, since the Minister of the Interior was already aware? Although the footage was not received, what prevented the Minister of the Interior, especially after the meeting with the Slovak ambassador, from getting that footage? The Minister failed to do what he had to do. Instead of taking responsibility, he has shown his incompetence in this matter. That is a disgrace to the family and I sincerely believe this for all police officers. The federal police were aware of this and the Minister of the Interior was also aware of it. You said yourself, Minister, that you did not fail to defend the police officers when necessary and that incorrect action is being taken. In the context of that incident, too, the Minister of the Interior had an opportunity to defend all the police officers who are genuine and do their job well. In doing so, he was able to take seriously the injustice of the police officers concerned and issue the necessary sanctions and measures. That is why I remember that the previous Minister for the Interior did not think the facts were important enough. I find it very shocking, partly in view of the fact that someone has died, that insufficient effort has been made to investigate. Madam President, I support the request made by my fellow Members to question Minister Jambon in our committee at the time, so that we can hear the right facts and find out why he did not take his responsibilities. I am particularly pleased to hear that the current Minister for the Interior will take the necessary initiatives to ensure that such facts will not happen again in the future. I very much hope that our committee will never have to meet again on such matters, because this is to be ashamed of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u46	Madam President, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for conducting the work of this committee. I thank you, Ministers, for this transparency and for this event. I'll go back to this sentence in number 2 of the police: "I feel prevented from carrying out my mandate." Why, at what time and by whom is this person prevented from doing his job? We did not receive the answers to these questions. Therefore, the road will indeed be long, but I think that in the interests of all – the police, the citizens – we have a real interest in clarifying these events and continuing our work in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u47	Madam President, I would like to thank both ministers for their detailed explanations. That has given a great deal of clarity to both committees. What remains is what has already been mentioned by several colleagues and confirmed by Minister De Crem: the former Minister of the Interior and Security was aware of the facts and of the death of Mr Chovanec. As Minister of the Interior, he could easily have started an internal investigation. He could ask, but he didn't. In fact, he has failed, and here I am on the same page as Mrs Kitir, in order to protect the entire police force, both federally, judicially and locally, from what a number of police officers have done in Charleroi. He left something very important. If General doesn't defend the troops, it's a big mistake. That is why we ask that, in addition to the Commissioner-General, Minister Jambon also come to the committee to explain this. At least I have one question for him. Was Mr Jambon still organizing the safety of all Belgians at the time, or was he already working on other files on the docks such as the Marrakech file or the file of his Secretary of State for Humanitarian Visas sold in Beirut? Was he working on that or was he already organizing the government exit with his party? I shall put that question to Mr Jambon, and I wonder what he will say to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u48	Madam President, Ministers, I thank you for your very clear answers, especially since our intention in no way was to ask you to interfere in a judicial investigation. We know the fundamental principles of democracy, including the separation of powers and the secrecy of education. That is why the elements that have been requested by the Supreme Council of Justice are extremely important. On the other hand, as Members of Parliament, our job is to ensure that, as members of the executive, you do what is necessary to ensure that the facts can be punished in accordance with their seriousness and within a reasonable time, but also that such facts can no longer be repeated. As I said earlier, we have a fairly large legislative arsenal that punishes such behaviour and also protects police officers who would like to share such facts in order to put an end to this famous omerta within the police. Unfortunately, I have not received an answer from you on this subject, which I believe is a crucial point. For the rest, we got a series of answers – and I sincerely thank you for that – especially on this famous question of who knew what. Today, it is clear – I am not surprised – that the federal police were aware of the facts, particularly in view of the numerous police hearings. However, I am astonished that if she was informed of the facts, she did not have the images, probably because justice had done everything it could to quickly capture these images, which is an excellent thing for the purposes of the investigation. I therefore wonder whether the famous Nazi greeting is included in the reports that have been produced by the P Committee and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Mr De Crem, we now know that you were not aware of the facts, unlike your predecessor. Why did Minister Jambon not consider it useful to share these facts with you, as I have said, of extreme seriousness and which require action, follow-up? This confirms the importance, as I said earlier, of hearing from Minister Jambon here about exactly what he knew and what action he would or would not have taken, whether or not he would have considered it useful. I think these are questions that require answers just as clear as those you gave us earlier. I also wanted to go back to the training of our police officers. Mr. From Crem, you referred to the establishment of a disciplinary group that developed training on the management of behaviours such as that adopted by Mr. Chovanec. What was the trigger that made it useful for you to set up this training? You're talking about the end of 2018. Were you already in charge of the federal police at that time, or was it Mr. Jambon's initiative, knowing that he was not aware of these facts? I'm really asking myself questions about that. Finally, I wonder about the screening and selection of police officers and what measures have been taken, or would be taken, to prevent our police officers, in any case some of them, from engaging in behaviour aimed at expressing sympathy for far-right ideas. Mr. Minister of Justice, you specified that neither the OCAM nor the Sûreté de l'Etat had identified a threat to the police. But I think that we should not wait for such reports in order to be able to protect ourselves from such behaviour and prevent it. I would really like to have clear answers on the measures that are being taken today to protect ourselves from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u49	Ministers, I thank you both for the answers, but I have to say that there are still many questions. For example, what was the role of former Interior Minister Jambon? He knew, so much is clear now. I thank you for your openness. Furthermore, former Minister Jambom did not see the incident in a normal briefing; he had active contact with the Slovak Embassy and failed to take any further steps. I support the question put by other Members and repeat it on behalf of my group in order to organise wider hearings on this subject, including not only the Commissioner-General, but also Mr Jambon and representatives of the P Committee. I also come back to the need to take structural measures to prevent such tragedies. Your answers here today, Ministers, are inadequate in this respect. I take the example of training in police violence control. Mr De Crem, you referred to GPI48. Well, in the follow-up report published in 2016 after the investigation into Jonathan Jacob's death in 2010 resulted in a number of recommendations, the National Training Coordinator repeatedly underlined the need to update the GPI48 circular. Nothing has been done with that 2016 recommendation until today. In its 2019 report on police violence control training, the P Committee also denounces the legal uncertainty as to the training to be carried out by the specialists who in turn have to train their corps. It appears that the specialists have too little operational knowledge, partly because the demand for specialist training is greater than the supply. There is also too little control over the way specialists train their colleagues and sometimes wrong techniques are taught. Why don't we work out a solution to these findings? How many more are to be killed before the government takes the necessary action? How many more ministers of the Interior need to be appointed? There was Jonathan Jacobs; now we're talking about Mr. Chovanec; at the end of 2019 someone died in a police cell in Dendermonde; today the newspaper reported that someone died yesterday in a police cell in Bree, all those things have to do with exited delirium syndrome or EDS and we're not doing anything at the moment to prevent that. That is a very hard point and it is clear to me that there is still a great deal of work on the table of Parliament and the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u50	Colleagues, what I have heard here about the fact that the police and the former minister were aware of is new to me. Otherwise I would not have said such things on television either. Allow me to check first what happened on the dates you gave us. So we can see what information we should have known at the time. What information was that? Were there any footage of it? I can't imagine that at all. What exactly did we know? Were we aware of the man's death? So far, everyone's been telling me we didn't know. So let me check that out. Former Minister Jambon has already informed me that he will be happy to explain this after we have sorted this out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u51	Ministers, thank you already for the factual answers. If other actions help to shed light on functioning and malfunctions, let's activate them – and this is important – through Jan Jambon's hearing! Let us also try to find solutions together with transparency and speed so that such a tragedy never happens again and that the police are respectable and respected! If individual slippages occur, they must be condemned. The vast majority of our police officers do an incredible job in difficult conditions. Most of our police officers suffer from the discrediting of the entire institution and of each one of them. They themselves condemn unacceptable behaviour. I will conclude by stressing the need to empower the police and the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u52	I should like briefly to comment on three things that have remained with me. Firstly, the then minister but also the police hierarchy were clearly informed. This is what the press report says, Minister De Crem. There was talk about it, too. The Slovak Embassy has had contacts. These are new elements which absolutely must be followed up. Secondly, I do not believe that there should be a wait for the judicial investigation to begin a disciplinary investigation. In the meantime, it's pretty obvious what those cops are doing. We can see it with our own eyes. Personally, I believe that the disciplinary investigation may begin. Finally, after the deaths of Jonathan Jacob and Mr Chovanec, the report of the P Committee should be reviewed again so that rapid action can be taken in cases which have not yet been investigated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-08-26-55-commissie-ic252x.u53	This will allow us to close the actua debate. I thank the ministers for coming.
