ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u1	Minister, have you planned an introductory presentation? Would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u2	Mr President, I have prepared a brief introduction. The latter may already answer some questions. The Committee has already received a detailed explanation of the royal decision at two times. So let me summarize it briefly. In Royal Decree No. 12 of 21 April 2020 concerning the extension of the time limits for judicial proceedings before the Council of State and the written examination of cases, a number of measures were taken with regard to the Council of State. We have already talked about this. It concerned Article 1 with the extension to 30 days after the expiry and Article 3 which provides that claims and actions may be dealt with without a hearing in open court for the period laid down in Article 1, namely the extended period. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you about the exact scope of the Royal Decree. The period referred to in Article 1, which is important for the other procedures mentioned in the following Articles, will end on 30 June 2020, as you know, instead of 18 May 2020. I will also share some other details. In the meantime, it has been decided that many of these measures will be extended and will be relaxed only in several stages. The current flexibilities and the general state of public health are insufficient to simply repeal the derived measures taken by Royal Decree No. 12.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u3	The date of 30 June 2020 allows the Council to organise itself as well as possible in the circumstances, taking into account all precautionary measures, given the current health situation. So that there would be no gap between the initial text of Royal Decree No. 12 of 4 May and the proposed amendment shall enter into force on 19 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u4	Are there any colleagues who have questions and/or comments? Do some colleagues have comments or questions? Mr. Secretary, apparently you were loud and clear, because no one has any questions. You have implicitly received the approval of this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u5	Mr President, last week we had a short debate in plenary on CAB No. Three down. You did not answer some of my questions at the time. The KB No. 3 was extended from 17 May to 17 June. It deals with the execution of sentences, in particular longer prison leave, early release, the extension of electronic surveillance and people who are 6 months before the end of their sentence. So it's about just about everything to limit the movements in and out of prison. The KB was only extended once again, while the figures are still in the right direction. There are loosenings everywhere. You also allow another visit in the prisons. So there is also an exit strategy for the execution of sentences, which I do not mean the exit from prison, of course, but an exit strategy in the area of measures. I had several questions about that. You did not answer all these questions in plenary last week. I also have a few further questions. Minister, what is the current state of affairs in prisons? What's the status of the contagion? How are they handled? Are there any prisoners being quarantined? How many tests have been carried out? Are there sufficient tests available? How many inmates are currently on extended penitentiary leave? In how many cases has the grant been withdrawn for non-compliance? I hope this didn't happen, but there's always a risk. How many prisoners were released because they were less than six months before the end of their sentence? In how many cases was it necessary to withdraw the grant because of non-compliance with the conditions? Why was the KB extended by one month and not by two weeks, as was the case last time? Finally, I come to my most important question. How do you plan to return to a normal sentence? Are you considering mass testing? Are you considering other measures? Last week, those cases were under-exposed. The exit strategy that I mentioned just now is now being discussed. I hope to hear a little more about this today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u6	Mr President, Minister, the government of special powers extended for the second time the measures it had taken in its third decree of special powers concerning criminal procedure, the enforcement of sentences and the security of detention. All maturities are therefore carried over by one month. The main aim of the text is to protect prisoners considered vulnerable during this health crisis, as well as to reduce prison congestion and avoid multiple displacements. Minister, I would like you to tell us the current number of inmates contaminated with VOCID-19. How many hospitalizations have been made necessary? How many prison officers are infected with the VOCID-19 and how many are hospitalized? Next, how many prisoners and officers are ill and/or under quarantine? Finally, what is the quantitative impact of the measures on prison overcrowding, particularly with regard to the theoretical capacity of prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u7	Mr President, Mr Minister, the period we have been through – and we hope to see the end of it in the near future – has shaken the working habits of many sectors. You know better than we do, justice has not escaped. Within this framework, various royal decrees of special powers (ARPS) have been taken. They have been negotiated, discussed, commented on and set up an organization that has its supporters and critics, but which is primarily based on a balance between the need to maintain the judicial institution, health security and the rights of the defence. Nevertheless, the more time passes and the more disproportionate these exceptional measures, it seems to me. This is the moment of the necessary adaptation of justice to the deconfinition. In the future, it is up to us to ensure the normal short- and medium-term functioning of our courts and tribunals, despite the recent extension of some SPRAs. In this regard, it must be noted that an order of the 18th French-speaking Chamber of the Tribunal de l'Entreprise de Bruxelles – considering the important criticisms made against Royal Decree of Special Powers No. 2 – decided to postpone a case to an indefinite date, as the Royal Decree in question specifically permits, but on a different basis than that. In particular, the order points to the impossibility of favouring, at this time, the amicable resolution of disputes provided for by law and the lack of consideration and specificity of certain disputes or of certain courts, including the court of the undertaking which rules with the presence of consular judges, which would make it difficult to apply the written procedure. The author, president of the chamber, wonders about the appropriateness of the choices that have been made, considering justice as a sector necessary to protect the vital needs of the Nation and the needs of the population. It raises the potential risks, already mentioned by my group in other parliamentary questions, to the use of software for which service providers are established in the United States and which therefore do not benefit from European data protection protection. Finally, the author points to the risk of breach of confidential information. Minister, if such orders were to multiply, the effectiveness of Royal Special Powers Order No. 2 would be weak. As a result, what action do you intend to take? Is a correction of this royal decree envisaged or possible? For the future, the reflection of physical presence is inherent in that of deconfination. Therefore, what rules are envisaged? Are there any planned work or improvements to ensure the safety of courtrooms to protect judicial personnel and magistrates and to prevent the spread of VOCID? If so, could you tell me about the planning agenda by judicial district? Finally, in terms of video conferencing, what are the safeguards put in place in terms of hacking and data protection regarding the particular use of Cisco Webex software?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u8	Are there any other colleagues who have a question or comments on the extension decision? No? Then I am happy to give you the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u9	Mrs De Wit, Mr Boukili, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure No. 3 were extended by Royal Decree of 13 May. With the exception of the provisions on the processing of research data, the temporary measures will cease on 17 June. I do not intend to ask for another extension. Any extension, including other proxy decisions, naturally, in line with the instructions of the National Security Council, took into account the evolution of the virus and the requirements for preventing contamination in the sector concerned. I do not need to explain to you that prisons are critical places, for which special measures were absolutely necessary and for the time being remain extremely necessary for a few weeks. I think I can say, however, that until today we have managed fairly well to ensure the safety and health of staff, detainees and external visitors or services. I give some figures on the infections and diseases related to the virus, both for the prisoners and for the staff. To date, 21 inmates have been tested positive for VOCID-19. Three detainees were hospitalized in a local hospital because they were not transportable. They were then transferred to the VOCID unit in Bruges Prison. The condition of one of them necessitated a transfer to the AZ Sint-Jan of Bruges to be hospitalized in intensive care. Meanwhile, this detainee was able to join Turnhout prison. Currently, six detainees are in the VOCID unit at Bruges Prison. Twelve are cured and three others have been released. Twenty-eight. Inmates are currently being quarantined for suspicion of infection. At the beginning of this week, 1,199 tests had already been carried out on prisoners. There is currently sufficient test material available. To date, the prison administration has 71 staff members who have been tested positive for VOCID-19. The administration is not aware of any hospitalization of any of them. Sixteen staff members are currently ill with VOCID-19 and fifty-five are cured and returned to work. As of May 26, 747 staff members were ill – we get this figure by adding patients other than those infected with VOCID-19. The FPS Justice Department doesn't run any tests on the staff. They are tested like any other citizen via the general practitioner or through a triage centre. So I cannot give you any figures. With regard to the penitentiary population and the measures of interruption and release a few months before the end of the sentence, I can give you the following figures. As at 26 May 2020, the prison population stood at 9,695, with a capacity of 9,279 places, representing an overpopulation of 4.6 per cent. On 4 March 2020, the population was still 10,782 prisoners. On 25 May 2020, 381 convicts were suspended. There were 34 convicts who had been detained in the past period: the majority because they did not comply with the conditions, the others because they asked for it themselves. Also on 25 May, 201 convicts were released for almost reaching the end of the sentence. Two were revoked for non-compliance with the conditions. The KB No. 3 will not be renewed, as I said earlier. This means that the convicts will soon have to return to prison. These persons will be tested, as happened with the persons who have recently been detained, new in prisons, following an arrest warrant in custody by the investigating judge or after the execution of a sentence to prison. The suspension of the execution of night-time permits, penitentiary leave and limited detention will also be terminated shortly. At the same time, the regime and activities within prisons will be gradually reduced to pre-crisis levels. Yesterday we had discussions with the trade unions on visitation measures. That consultation went well. I come to Mr Aouasti's question on the situation of judicial interpreters. Mr Aouasti, being younger than you, I do not share your pessimism. The applications of Article 2 of the ARPS No. 2 are more numerous than refusals. In fact, it is often at the request of, or with the consent of, the parties to an ex officio application. Let us not lose sight of the fact that the intention was merely to create a complementary and optional tool to advance justice, even if it was impossible to hold pleadings because of containment measures. In this context, judges have a broad discretion and have the choice of organizing the hearing, if any, by videoconference, if none of the parties, or just one or a few of them do not object, or to postpone the case to an indeterminate or fixed date or to take the case in deliberation without oral argument. This choice allows them, in particular – this applies particularly to exceptional courts, such as the justice of the peace, the police court, the corporate court, the labour court, the youth and family court and/or under specific conditions – to take their responsibilities on a case-by-case basis, on the one hand, by not taking the case in deliberation without pleading (cf. Article 2(2), fourth paragraph of the decree) and, if necessary, requesting oral explanations (see Article 2(4) of the Order), if it is appropriate to do so. I therefore do not propose to correct this measure as such. Besides, except for another extension, which I do not expect – but we never know! –, it will be extinguished automatically on 17 June next. With respect to your question about the measures taken to protect judicial personnel, I can tell you that the FPS Justice and the Colleges have worked on additional measures to enable the justice system to fully resume its duties as of May 18th. As of May 1, 2020, the College of Courts and Courts issued a communication to the Courts Management Committees as part of the exit strategy. The Communication contains various recommendations on hygiene and work organisation. The Prevention Advisors and the FPS Justice conducted a risk analysis in the various judicial buildings in order to implement the measures on the ground. With regard to protective equipment, approximately 35,000 FFP1 oral masks were delivered to the courts of first instance: 5,000 from 20 April 2020 and 30,000 at the beginning of the week of 11 May 2020, with a view to being distributed locally to all the management committees of the district. Since Thursday, May 14, 2020, 297,000 disposable masks have been delivered to the courts. In terms of security and security for videoconferencing, Cisco Webex uses end-to-end encryption using the highest technical standards (TLS protocol 1.2, 128-bit AES encryption key and 256-bit). It operates in a data centre on European territory in accordance with the GDPR. Since the product works with a Personal Room, no one can participate in the video conferencing without being invited. Vacuumbombing therefore becomes impossible. In addition, a multipoint license to start Webex meetings is activated only for employees with a validated FPS Justice address and at the request of their supervisor within the General Directorate or Support Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for the figures. Let me summarize the exit strategy: there will be no extension after 17 June and the sentence will gradually be resumed. However, it is not quite clear to me what I can or may mean by 'gradually', because that can, of course, cover almost everything. It can go on in weeks, months or even longer, so I'm still a little hungry there. However, I am counting on you, together with the penitentiary institutions and probably also with the trade unions, to draw up a workable plan to ensure that everything can be done in a normal way as soon as possible. This exit strategy applies to every sector, including justice and the prison system. I will certainly come back to it, but if you know what 'gradually' means, you can always let me know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, there are concerns in the judicial world. I also think, like you, that this royal decree of special powers is applied separately. What worries me is that it can be applied significantly in a district such as Brussels, and particularly in the tribunal de l'entreprise francophone de Bruxelles. It is known that the economic sector is important, and therefore, if it becomes recurring, it can have many impacts. Already, the economic impact is significant. I think a contact might be interesting, to see what specific and operational measures can be put in place. You said there were masks and protective tools. I believe that a particular contact may be interesting in this context, in order to avoid adding to the health crisis this crisis caused by the delay in all these judicial proceedings. Finally, I will conclude, minister, by telling you that, like any left-wing man, I know my classics. I will end with this sentence which is not mine, but Gramsci: "To the pessimism of intelligence, one must combine the optimism of the will". I think we were both going today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u12	Do you still want to add something to the left?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u13	Mr President, no, I have had an answer to my question. I have nothing else to add and thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u14	Mr President, I apologize for my delay. I have not heard the questions put by my fellow Members, which is why I have not asked my questions. If I do not have to, I do not like to repeat myself, because that is already happening more than enough in this House. I have therefore been waiting for the answers to ask a few further questions. Minister, you have given a number of figures concerning the number of sentences suspended and the number of returners, whether voluntarily or not. My question, which remains, is what is in line with Mr De Wit's: what is gradual? How many inmates will still be eligible for the suspension of sentence now that that time limit is extended? Will there be a lot more, or is there a return movement going on? Do you have any idea how many percent of the total prison population will be allowed to leave prison after the extension of this measure? I have another question, Minister. When this KB came up the first time, my group informed you that we felt that too little account was taken of the victims, who were not informed that the perpetrators were being released. Was there any action taken in favour of those victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u15	Mr President, let me start by saying that if I set a deadline for such a measure, I will soon be asked whether I have respected that deadline. It's much worse not to respect one deadline than to get a thousand, in my experience. If I may suggest a tentative deadline, I would say that we will try to end the interruptions by the beginning of the great holiday. We will allow people to come in gradually, and that is, as far as I am concerned, by the start of the great holiday. I would also like to say straight away that it was only those who were already eligible for penitentiary leave before the start of the measures. I thought Mrs. Pas asked for that. Therefore, no new persons were eligible for the penalty interruption. Mr Van Den Berge reminded me just now that he thinks there are 3 or 4 people who will still be able to enjoy the end of the sentence measure. He added, for the sake of caution, that it concerns 3 to 4 people per week, until 17 June. In general, therefore, there are not many. I believe that I have answered all the questions. What worries me most is the re-establishment of services in prisons which are largely within the Community. We must gradually create an environment in which this recovery can be done comfortably. Mr Aouasti, the fusion of the two qualities that you mentioned is, therefore, voluntarism – and here I recognize you as someone quite similar – and I will, in this spirit, make the contact that you insist I am taking with the company tribunal in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u16	My question deals specifically with non-profit organisations in the arts, entertainment and recreation sectors. They also have to endure it very hard at the moment. It is reported that one in three non-profit organisations in this sector could go bankrupt, even today healthy non-profit organisations. Since the reform of corporate law, non-profit organisations have been regarded as companies and can therefore rely on insolvency law to avoid bankruptcy or, if this is no longer possible, to apply for bankruptcy. As a result, they are also covered by Royal Decree No. 15. Therefore, the temporary moratorium foreseen for all companies applies to non-profit organisations, provided that continuity is threatened by COVID-19 and that they were not on strike on 18 March 2020. They shall be protected against detention and execution and a declaration of bankruptcy. This will now be extended until 17 June. That is a very good thing, but I am looking a little further. I understand that many non-profit organisations are often unaware that they can be covered by this moratorium. Mr. Secretary, are you getting any such signals? What more can be done to inform and reassure people in this sector who are very concerned about the coming summer in which certain events will not be able to continue? The KB now runs until June 17th. Of course, it is very difficult to see in the future whether or not the KB will be extended, but it is at least temporary. A lot of these non-profit organisations do an event once a year in the summer, such as a Gallo-Roman event, an annual arts festival, an annual concert and so on. They depend on the income they will not have now as a result of this corona period. They should be able to bridge the period until their next event, within six months or at worst within one year. Is the government considering additional measures that can still be taken to protect the arts and entertainment sector even after 17 June while waiting for them to be able to organise something and have income?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u17	Minister, companies are going through a very complex period because of the coronavirus crisis. Some have been forced to close, while others are indirectly affected by a slowing economy. The latest surveys are alarming and reveal that 50 per cent of the independents have solvency problems, that 300,000 independents have applied for bridge law, and that the number of additional bankruptcies would be 10 or 15 per cent. This risk for the Horeca sector is even 25%. In addition, 22% of companies expect targeted redundancies. Royal Decree No. 15 established a temporary moratorium during which any company heavily affected by the epidemic is protected by a legal measure of suspension of bankruptcy, seizure and enforcement. The measures shall apply to any natural person who is self-employed, any legal person and any other organization without legal personality threatened by the pandemic. The purpose of this unprecedented measure, in order to safeguard business continuity, is to send a clear message of support. Furthermore, by creating a legal stay, applications to the company's court are avoided in order to obtain a stay of proceedings and consequently an overload of work for the courts. For these reasons, we are in favour of extending this moratorium in time until 17 June, especially since the date is similar to the law providing for protection against seizures for individuals. Minister, I would like to know the monthly number of bankruptcy openings before the VOCID-19 crisis. What is the numerical impact on the employment of so-called monthly bankruptcies? Does this suspension, to which we are extremely favourable, not have the side effect of masking the extent of the damage? What are the long-term solutions? As far as judicial reorganization procedures are concerned, how many companies have recently used them? Are the services, registries and courts responsible for judicial reorganizations not overwhelmed? Were additional resources allocated to them? In conclusion, are major information campaigns planned to explain their rights to firms in difficulty?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u18	Mr. Minister, the extension of Royal Decree No. 15 extended its period of validity until 17 June 2020. Our group agreed to this in the extensive nuclear cabinet, especially as a limited extension seemed appropriate pending the second bazooka of support measures for your colleague, Minister De Croo. Apparently, these measures would be further explained in committee this week, but we are still waiting for further concrete texts on this matter. Mr Donné already asked questions in this committee about the Royal Decree No. 15 and noted that the government's N-VA expects a policy that takes into account the impact of the phasing-out of the corona measures on different sectors relative to each other. One sector is not the other and one will of course come at cruising speed faster than the other. This KB does not provide comprehensive unique solutions to all liquidity and insolvency problems. Last time, Mr Donné advocated a diversified approach which also looked at a number of possibilities, such as the easing of judicial reorganisation or the possible re-establishment of the post-bankruptcy figure. As far as the judicial reorganisation is concerned, the requirement of a reporter can be replaced by a mandatory report from the company's own accountant, so that the court can quickly learn about the business situation and assess the period of suspension or protection optimally and quickly. It may also be possible to extend further the current six-month suspension periods, or twice six months, with additional time limits. Technical assistance before the courts could be provided by the possibility of appointing a company auditor. Mr Minister, can you tell us first of all whether you are investigating the slopes I have just outlined? If not, would you like to look at it? Are any other measures under corporate or insolvency law prepared for your cabinet to maximise survival during and after the exit phase for companies that are not structurally unhealthy? Does this also take account of sectoral differences? This is, of course, becoming urgent. We cannot extend this Royal Decree forever out of respect for the rights of creditors. Too long an extension can have disastrous consequences for the economy. Can you, therefore, clarify as soon as possible what is on the table of your cabinet regarding measures to ensure the liquidity and solvency of our companies as much as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u19	Minister, I have a small question that is inspired by the prorogation. The moratorium was obviously an excellent measure taken by the government, but the Council of State, in its opinion expressed at the time, had indicated that the moratorium should ideally be extended to spouses or ex-spouses, co-residents, ex-co-residents of a debtor to the extent that such persons are or would be co-committed to the debtor's debts, but also extended to the personal security interests of enterprises. The Government did not consider it useful to follow this suggestion of the Council of State. As I recall, the government had essentially put forward the short duration of the order as a reason. From the moment it is extended and perhaps not the last extension, I was wondering whether this suggestion of the Council of State should be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u20	If there are no more colleagues who want to intervene, I am happy to give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u21	Mrs Slegers, RB No. 15 has arisen with some difficulty. A moratorium on bankruptcy is never an obvious issue. This is even exceptional for non-profit organisations, because in the past they were not companies that could have made use of such a moratorium. It is only because of the new company law that non-profit organisations can also use this moratorium, at least insofar as they have been impacted by the COOVID-19 pandemic. The government has tried to highlight as much as possible the existence of this moratorium in the written and audiovisual press. In the consultancy sector in the broad sense, including banks, accountants and tax consultants, with which non-profit organisations and auditors regularly come into contact, this KB is well known. This is also known in the representative organisations of the sector, such as Verso, but also in many other associations for associations. The government may take such action again, but of course it only makes sense in the perspective of a broader recovery policy. This royal decree is essentially merely a measure of intensive care. It's not a recovery measure. It is an urgent measure that seeks to avoid the worst evil and to postpone and prevent sudden, unjustified bankruptcies if possible. However, at some point there will have to be a recovery and there will have to be a recovery. In your question, you referred to the cultural sector quite specifically. Of course, it went wider than that. However, I am not responsible for this matter. There have been several Inter-Ministerial Conferences on Culture in recent weeks. The federal government will, not only, try to see in social and fiscal terms what can happen for artists and artists. However, I do not have the authority to do this. Mr Boukili, with regard to your question on the monthly number of bankruptcies, I can tell you that in the first four months of this year we recorded 930, 865, 869 and 298 applications for bankruptcy respectively. The figures show that Royal Decree No. 15 produced effects. As for the job losses, I can tell you that they amounted to 1,718 in January, 1,953 in February, 1,723 in March and only 705 in April. It appears that the royal decree represents a real balloon of oxygen – as I said, they are "intensive care" for the companies affected by the pandemic – since it grants them a legal stay, but it is an exceptional measure in response to a situation that is just as much so. Belgian insolvency law is already very comprehensive and includes many effective mechanisms – both in terms of prevention and liquidation – that will fully fulfil their role. Moreover, for the number of recently introduced judicial reorganizations, very short response periods do not allow for the collection and delivery of this information. I have no doubt that the work of judicial supervision will provide an adequate response to this exceptional crisis. As I explained to Mrs Slegers, the measure in question has been widely relayed in the print and audio press, for example in order to inform companies that employers' federations organise free online seminars. These days, they're called webinars. Do you know that term? We'd almost retire when we heard it! The same applies to the non-profit sector. Information is also available on several sites for companies. Now I come to the questions of Mrs Houtmeyers and Monsieur Pivin. Mrs Houtmeyers, the federal government will try to propose a number of remedial measures to all parties and representatives of the people within a reasonable time. The aim of these measures is to ensure that this year's situation is restored to the best possible extent, as mentioned in French soutien. We will take transversal measures, in fiscal, social and financial terms, but we will also take sectoral measures, in particular, and among other things, in those sectors which are not yet in work. The real recovery is for later. In my view, this is a matter for a fully-fledged government. We are very much in the process of recovery. In this context, we shall see whether there is still room for the extension of Royal Decree No. 15. It is in this context that support measures that go beyond the emergency and the "intensive care" that we are going to study whether this Royal Decree No. 15 should be extended. Mr Pivin, this gives me the opportunity to answer your question immediately in terms of bail, free bail, joint and several suretyship, etc. We had indeed given up a detailed answer to these questions in the context of Royal Decree No 15, despite the question of the Council of State, because we thought that the measure should be temporary and temporal. I still believe that. I had problems getting this measure accepted and extended, but if there was a unanimous request to extend it, I would certainly do so – with pleasure. It goes without saying that at that time, we would take care to deal in detail with those issues which we felt were subsidiary at an early stage of emergency and which might have led us too far in the legal discussions on emergency measures. Indeed, the best is the enemy of the good, as you know and at such times, we must be able to move as far as possible. So thank you for your questions, but perhaps you still have answers for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u22	Thank you, Minister. Of course, we can't solve this with the Justice Department alone. It will have to be a collaboration with different policy areas such as Economy and Finance. It is also very important that the Länder should play their part in this. The ministers responsible there must also come up with some prospects for this sector. Now that we were talking here about KB No. 15, I am very glad that the non-profit organisations are already covered by this directive until 17 June. I hope, deep down, perhaps with other colleagues, that there will still be an extension. You have indicated that perhaps we should not hope too much for this, because this has already been difficult to achieve. You also mentioned the IMCs. I know that you are not competent to do so, but I would ask you to take the concerns of the arts and recreation sector into account when participating in an IMC with your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-27-55-commissie-ic190x.u23	If there are no more replies, we thank the Minister.
