ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u1	Good morning, colleagues. Congratulations on your appointment, Prime Minister. I hope to be able to see you here regularly to discuss various questions and interplays.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u2	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for being here. In 2019 there was an increase of 180 % compared to 2018 in the CERT declarations. There were 1.7 million reports of phishing. The economic impact of this has already been estimated at EUR 3.5 billion in 2018, or more than 1% of GDP. In 2020, since the start of the corona crisis, of course, more than ever, telework is being carried out. We can only assume that the number of declarations has only increased and the economic impact has only increased, just as our self-employed and SMEs are particularly vulnerable. We absolutely need more national coordination and a stronger warning system for leaks. These leaks can cause a lot of damage if they are not resolved quickly. Of course, the CERT, our national cyberwatchdog, plays a crucial role here. The organisation can inform companies about their specific vulnerabilities. Companies should also receive this information quickly, especially in the case of major security breaches, precisely now that our companies are operating mainly via teleworking. Recently I also heard a European campaign on the radio to raise awareness. This campaign has been extended to Belgium, and we can only welcome that. Mr Prime Minister, I have a number of questions about this. How many companies does CERT know that it is affected by this vulnerability? How many of these companies did the CERT proactively contact? What is being done about that? A distinction is also made between vital sectors and others. This crisis has shown how a vital business can depend on other non-vital companies for its services. That way, the chain will also be in danger. Do you think this distinction is sufficient? Could you also give me an overview of the number of CERT declarations for the first two quarters and, if possible, for the third quarter? Often companies try to keep a cyber attack quiet for fear of reputational damage. How do the reports relate to the attacks detected by the CERT? Has there been any investment and expansion of CERT staff in recent months? What are the prospects for supporting our companies in this area? As far as the radio campaign is concerned, can you give an indication of the net range or the number of GRPs? Are there any other communication campaigns planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u3	Prime Minister, the figures of the Belgian police for 2019 in relation to cybercrime show a sharp increase, more specifically 29.2% compared to 2018, which already showed an increase of 18.1% compared to 2017. Last year, approximately 32,943 incidents of computer crime – in other words, a breach of the security of a computer system or the integrity of stored data – were observed. Much of this has to do with Internet fraud, i.e. online sales and purchases, fake lotteries, friendship or identity fraud. The 24,617 cases registered throughout 2019 reflect this increase of 28.2% compared to 2018. Note also the significant increase in phishing (this is the theft of user data, attracting them to fake websites) estimated at 80.3% more than in 2018, for a total of 2,365 cases. However, these figures may not reflect the full reality of the phenomenon of cybercrime in Belgium. According to the 2018 Security Monitor, only 22% of Internet fraud victims report the facts. In this regard, Minister Sophie Wilmès stated in December 2019 that cybercrime figures were only the visible part of the iceberg. Indeed, companies do not systematically report having been victims of a cyber incident or do not systematically file complaints. Prime Minister, can we have your feedback on these figures? Since 2014, the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) has conducted several public and private sector campaigns. In 2019, a campaign was developed, focusing on the human factors of phishing. Given the significant increase in phishing cases in 2019, is the CWB considering new initiatives to counter this form of cybercrime? Given the low proportion of reported and complaints of cybercrime, does the CWB intend to put in place awareness-raising measures on the possibilities of action for people who are victims of cyber incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u4	Mevrouw Houtmeyers, Mr Senesael, thank you for your questions, which I shall address in the order in which they were put. Mrs Houtmeyers, the number of companies with vulnerability in Belgium is very dynamic and depends on how quickly these companies implement so-called patches to counteract the vulnerabilities in their systems. Every day new vulnerabilities become known and the CCB receives thousands of IP addresses that would be vulnerable. Identifying who owns those vulnerable systems is a major challenge as in all EU countries. CERT.be regularly distributes recommendations with technical information on patches for new vulnerabilities and targeted warnings. This year alone there were 630 of those communications, so far. As far as your third question is concerned, by organisations of vital importance, the CCB means the public and private entities that provide an essential service to the Belgian population and that use network and information systems for that purpose. These organisations of vital importance to our country must be optimally protected from cyber attacks as incidents involving these organisations can have a large-scale national impact on society and national security. In addition, it is important to note that the CCB assesses any incident notification it receives whether it meets the criteria to activate the National Cyber Emergency Plan, or whether the CCB is in a position to provide assistance where requested. Finally, the CCB also publishes the supply chain guidelines which provide advice to essential service providers on the control objectives of their suppliers. As regards your fourth and fifth questions, this year the CERT received 5,387 notifications from citizens, companies and partners until September. The main types of reported incidents are phishing fraud, ransomware, and computer viruses. However, these figures do not give a complete picture. The real number of cyber attacks in Belgium is many times higher. Companies and individuals rarely report when they have become victims of a cyber incident, and do not always file complaints with the police. With the exception of some providers of essential services covered by NIS legislation, there is no notification of cyber incidents. In addition, the CERT could become more well-known, leading to more victims reporting to CERT. The figures do not distinguish between individuals and companies. As far as your sixth question is concerned, the government will build on the successes of the Centre for Cyber Security Belgium and the Director and Deputy Director gave a new mandate for this in August. In order to provide an appropriate response to the growing threat, the impact of the CCB will also be strengthened in the coming years. As for your seventh question, the CCB sends targeted notifications when it becomes aware that companies are vulnerable to certain cyber risks. Actions relating to the sensitisation and information of enterprises and to assistance in the event of an attack are continued and extended where possible. By raising awareness and providing technical information on the cybersecurity measures to be taken, companies in Belgium are encouraged to invest in cybersecurity. Sensitising companies reaches the CCB through annual awareness campaigns and via online webinars. In addition to awareness raising, the CCB informs companies about the measures to be taken to increase the level of cybersecurity within their business. As far as your eighth question is concerned, the information campaign aims to encourage the Belgian internet user to secure accounts strongly with two-step verification. The CCB is strongly committed to broad media dissemination in order to get the campaign to citizens through different channels. In other words, the radio campaign you mention is part of a wider media campaign. In connection with your question about the figures for OTHs and GRPs, a table will be provided to you. As for your ninth question, besides the radio, other media channels will be used during the campaign. Through advertising on social media and Google, television spots on regional television in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels and advertisements in the Metro newspaper, we spread the message as widely as possible. In addition, more than 500 partners in public, private and academic sectors are also helping to disseminate the campaign message. Since its creation in 2015, the CCB has taken various initiatives to raise awareness among Belgian citizens about cyber security. These initiatives will continue. You can also check out the website safeonweb.be, which is managed by the CCB and which wants to inform, sensitize and advise Belgian citizens quickly and correctly throughout the year. The campaign in 2017 also created an email address to send fake messages to.That email address is suspicious@safeonweb.be. This initiative will be promoted throughout the year, including this year. Mr Senesael, victims of cybercrime can apply to the local police. Figures on the number of reports are published in the annual federal police crime statistics. The CWB therefore has no additional figures on arrests and convictions of cyber criminals or on investigations into closed cybercrimes. In addition, they do not receive information about the profile of suspects. Thanks to the suspicious initiative@safeonweb.be, however, the CWB receives notifications of phishing. All Internet users who receive a suspicious message can send it to this address. The links and appendices of these messages are, in this case, automatically controlled. If a suspicious link proves positive after screening the scanner, the CWB will block the false URLs. Cybercriminals thus cause fewer victims. In 2018, 648,000 messages were sent to this address. In 2019, more than 1,700,000 messages were sent. Last year, four hundred unique URLs were blocked. Since January 2020, this address has received between 5,000 and 10,000 false messages per day. If the CWB finds an increase in the number of alerts, it is not in a position to conclude whether this is due to an increase in the number of phishing emails in general, a better knowledge of the email address or a combination of these two factors. Phishing remains the biggest cybersecurity problem for citizens in Belgium. In the future, the CWB will continue to combat this phenomenon. Safeonweb.be provides information and advice on cybersecurity. And about the main threats that are currently high, it provides tips and tricks in order to surf safely. It allows victims of cybersecurity to find adequate information on the measures to be taken. The website pointdecontact.belgique.be was developed by the SPF Economy to denounce all kinds of fraud, deception, fraud and illegal business practices. It is a website where citizens and businesses can report cases of deception, scam, fraud or fraud. The website provides information on the steps victims must take.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Hearings on cyber security in the Committee for Economics show that a very significant part of the companies actually pay ransom for this. Regardless of whether or not ransom is being paid, the damage to those companies is very great anyway. So we can only insist on more sensitisation, absolutely more communication directed towards our companies, SMEs and the self-employed. After all, many SMEs and self-employed people are working on their business every day, while cybersecurity seems to them far from their bed or even Chinese, just as corona seems to be far from the bed or Chinese, but is actually very close.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u6	Prime Minister, thank you for your response. In any case, I will note that phishing is very active and expanding, as the figures you have quoted from the CWB show. I strongly stress that, because of the current health circumstances, the population is heavily oriented towards telework. As a result, it is more than ever and more exposed to this type of crime than usual. Prevention must be the key word and therefore more important than ever in this area. Furthermore, it might also be appropriate to strengthen the capacity of the police to prosecute and punish such acts. I know that you will be attentive and in advance, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Brussels Court of Appeal confirmed in a judgment that Delphine Boël is recognized as the daughter of our former king. The Court also has far-reaching consequences. In the context of the complete equality of the children of the prince, she may not only bear the name of the prince, but she may now also call herself a Belgian princess. It is also entitled to its rightful share in the inheritance and so on. The Court considers that no distinction should be made between legal and natural children and that they should be treated equally. The question then immediately arises as to what is the situation with regard to the amounts paid by the taxpayer to the other two princes. This also applies to the principles of non-discrimination and equal treatment as set out in Articles 10 and 11 of the Constitution. The royal family is not so close to my heart, but the principles of non-discrimination and equal treatment all the more. In these times of savings, it would be unacceptable for Delphine of Saxony-Coburg to be provided for. The provision of donations to Laurent and Astrid is already very controversial. All the Flemish parties agreed in the past that these donations should be abolished. It wasn't an agreement, because it wasn't implemented. Prime Minister, how do you assess the judgment of the Court of Appeal in the light of the amounts given to Laurent and Astrid and the principles of non-discrimination and equality? Will you take the opportunity to take the initiative to abolish the donations for all princess and princesses?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Pas, first of all, the ruling of the Court of Appeal does not raise any problems with regard to the principle of constitutional equality and therefore does not require an amendment of existing laws and regulations. Secondly, there is no government initiative in the process of abolishing existing funds following the ruling of the Court of Appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u9	Mr Prime Minister, you say that there is no problem in dealing with the different princess and princesses in a different way in relation to these donations. I think, of course, and you will not be surprised, that it is a missed opportunity to take advantage of the opportunity to abolish these amounts. Unlike the lack of support for your government in Flanders, there is indeed a great deal of support for this in Flanders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to return to the repression and persecution of the Uighur minority: internment camps, forced disappearances, murders, forced sterilization of this religious minority in Xinjiang province. The number of Uighur Muslims is estimated to have decreased by 24% only last year in this province. It is therefore no wonder that today associations and NGOs, such as Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, are talking about genocide. Mr Prime Minister, you will therefore not be surprised that today, as parliamentarians, we expect a much stronger, more realistic response from the European Union to simply stop these violations of peremptory norms of international law. Prime Minister, how was the fate of this Uighur minority mentioned by Belgium at the EU-China summit? I wonder about the possibility of imposing targeted European sanctions against the perpetrators of these serious crimes. I wonder how the team of international observers and independent experts that we could send to China will be formed. I understand that China is opening a door for experts to come, in any case from the European Union. It would be interesting to know whether Belgian diplomats, even Belgian parliamentarians, could be part of this observation mission. Finally, much has been said about organ transfers and forced organ removals from Uighur prisoners in China. Here too, I wonder whether it would not be time to make transparency, in our country but also more broadly within the European Union, on the existence of such transfers of Uighurs prisoners' organs to the European Union and Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u11	Prime Minister, the European-Chinese Summit in September initially raised high expectations. As a general starting point, the EU put a more assertive attitude at first, as well as promoting a more balanced relationship with respect for each other's interests. The summit's agenda included the EU-China investment agreement, the signing of which had to be an organ point of the meeting. The agreement was intended to make Chinese market rules more flexible for the benefit of EU companies. It is not news that there is no agreement or signature in the meantime. Trade and environmental issues were also raised and the EU's proposal to send independent observers to Xinjiang, where China has set up educational camps for the Uighurs. The violation of human rights in this region, Tibet and Hong Kong were also dealt with. China didn't seem impressed by all of this, as it turned out after the virtual summit. There is still little evidence of an assertive EU approach. Prime Minister, how do you evaluate the European-Chinese Summit in general? How will the EU re-or continue to move the investment agreement with an increasingly market-protected China as a partner? How will the EU and our country respond to the continuing violation of human rights by the Communist regime in China?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u12	Mevrouw Ponthier, Mr. Cogolati, thank you for your questions. I'll answer them by grouping them together. The EU-China A strategic outlook of March 2019 provides the strategic framework of our relations with China. The European Union considers China not only as a competitor, for example in economic terms, and systemic rival, for example in governance, human rights and democracy, but also as a partner, to address global problems such as the fight against climate change. In order to move towards more balanced relations, the European Union proposed ten action points. Belgium supports this approach. A strong and common EU position on human rights in China is of particular importance to our country. The EU-China "A strategic outlook" states that China's real commitment to human rights will be an important measure of the quality of our bilateral relations. Human rights are thus one of the main pillars of the relationship between the European Union and China, including the human rights situation in Xinjiang, Hong Kong and Tibet, which are actively and regularly addressed to the Chinese authorities. This is happening bilaterally, with our country not hesitating to raise human rights issues, as well as during the annual EU-China Human Rights Dialogue and in multilateral fora. For example, on 5 October 2020, the European Union addressed the human rights situation in Xinjiang, Tibet and Hong Kong, as well as freedom of expression, the rule of law and the situation of human rights defenders in China, in the third United Nations Commission in New York. Belgium therefore insists that the state of human rights in China be included on the agenda, including the situation of the Uighurs in Xinjiang. Belgium calls, inter alia, for an end to the arbitrary mass detention of Uighurs and calls for significant access by independent observers to the province, including for the High Commissioner for Human Rights, thereby enabling them to ascertain the situation impartially. Both our services in Brussels and our embassy in Beijing continue to follow developments closely and coordinate with our partners, including the European Union, in order to establish the best approach. In our relationship with China, our country is also aware of the crucial importance of data security. The General Data Protection Regulation is the cornerstone of the protection of personal data. The allegations concerning the so-called Zhenhua data leaks must be further investigated. In his comments following the EU-China Summit at the video conference on 14 September, President Michel said that the EU should strengthen its vision of a free, open and secure cyber space. The EU-China Summit on 14 September was therefore not only about trade and investment, but also about COOVID-19 response, climate and diversity cooperation and also human rights. Belgium, as a Member State, does not take a direct part in the summit between the European Union and certain third countries, but, in preparing for this summit, has insisted that human rights, and in particular the situation in Hong Kong, be addressed. Finally, as regards the negotiations in an investment treaty, the common objective is to be able to conclude them by the end of 2020. This political objective was reiterated at the summit. During the European Council, leaders welcomed in particular the completion of work on the rules on state-owned enterprises, transparency, rules on subsidies and forced technology transfer. With regard to market access, the EU is seeking a new balance. The agreement cannot simply confirm the current asymmetry in market openness. In particular, China's supply needs to be improved in the telecommunications and computer sectors, health care, biotechnology, new energy vehicles and air transport. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that the content prevails over speed. The main objectives for our country are to achieve balanced market access and to improve the level playing field and meet meaningful commitments on sustainable development. Like the EU, I continue to advocate the need for urgent progress in these areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u13	Prime Minister, I thank you very much for your answer and, in particular, for daring to include the issue of respect for and promotion of human rights on the agenda of our bilateral and multilateral relations with China. That seems extremely important to me. Our country has already expressed its greatest concern not only about the Xinjiang province and the Uighur minority, but also about the very serious events still taking place in Hong Kong. I therefore consider it necessary to resort to more coercive measures, in particular in the form of European sanctions, in order to provide a coherent and respectful response to international law to the continued persecution and repression of the Uighurs in Xinjiang.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, you have announced with your government that you want to leave your own mark on foreign policy and that you want to turn it to the East and, above all, on this issue. As far as I'm concerned, it's fair. Through the announced Beijing policy, you want to strengthen economic ties and engage in dialogue on technological development, but you also want to talk intensively about difficult issues such as human rights violations. Those are of course fine words, but it is still looking forward to the execution and follow-up. As I said in my introduction, the communist regime in China does not seem to be impressed by the EU's efforts so far and continues its assertive and market-protected attitude. With regard to the Flemish interest, a clear vision needs to be developed quickly with regard to the Communist regime and the EU should be called upon to maintain strategic sectors within the EU. We must also be critical of the outsourcing of our macro-economy to China. Just think of the root cause of the COOVID-19 crisis in this. So, as far as I am concerned, we cannot do cherypicking in terms of cooperation, but we urgently need to move away from the easy attitude towards China and make a firm move. I can promise you that we will carefully evaluate and monitor your initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u15	Prime Minister, my question is about Chinese cyber attacks on Belgium, in particular an attack by two Chinese hackers who were often employed by the Chinese Ministry of State Security. They also had a Belgian company that builds software for aircraft and cars, hacked and spied on. How did Belgium respond to that Chinese cyber attack? Was China addressed on the revelations? Was the country asked for explanations and called for action? Have we had to deal with Chinese cyberattacks before? If so, how many times did that happen? Who or which companies were endorsed? Will Belgium take action against Chinese cybercrime? Australia has already announced that it will do so. Is there a specific service or a group of people around China working in State Security? That's definitely important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u16	Thank you for your questions, Mrs Van Bossuyt. As for your first and second questions, the geopolitical threat to the vital interests of our country is being evaluated by the State Security Service. The Centre for Cyber Security Belgium continuously evaluates the technical threat against the population, businesses, public administrations and organisations of vital importance and collects all information on a daily basis. This information is permanently shared with the operators of the threatened systems through various channels. Both policies and measures are adapted very quickly to the evolution of the threat. The CCB notes a permanent increase in cyber threats and incidents. The attribution of these attacks is a global challenge. The internet offers many opportunities to connect anonymously. I come to your third question. There is no evidence that Belgium would be the victim of cyber attacks more often than other countries. The improvement of the cybersecurity of companies protects the Belgian economy and is an important objective of the CCB. As the number of cyber attacks continues to increase worldwide, the CCB takes various actions to sensitise companies, inform them about measures to increase the level of cyber security and assist them when they are victims of larger cyber attacks via the operational service CERT.be. The CCB also sends targeted notifications when it becomes aware of companies that are vulnerable to certain risks. I refer you to my previous answer, which you have also heard. The CCB supports the Cyber Security Coalition Belgium, a unique Belgian platform to share knowledge and experience of cybersecurity experts and good cybersecurity practices between different actors and sectors, both in the government and in the private sector and in the academic world. The CCB also supports the annual Belgian Cyber Security Convention for companies and actively works on international cooperation at policy and operational level in the fight against international cyber attacks. At policy level, the CCB is represented in several European consultative bodies, setting out a legal framework to strengthen the cyber security landscape, such as the improved security of essential services, e.g. the NIS Directive or cybersecurity products, e.g. certification. At operational level, the Computer Emergency Response Team Belgium, CERT.be, the operational service of the CCB, is a member of a number of international networks, which actively exchange information on threats, weaknesses and incidents. The CCB also actively participates in international cybersecurity exercises.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister, for the comprehensive answer. Unfortunately, I have not received an answer to all my questions. You have not answered the question whether Belgium has previously been specifically the victim of cyber attacks from China. Companies don't always report that they're being attacked, for understandable reasons. It is very important to sensitise these companies. Unfortunately, like the Minister of Justice, you have not answered the question as to the extent to which state security will deploy a specific team. According to the Minister of Justice, that is apparently a great state secret. However, we do not ask for names. We just want to know if a specific team is working on this. I don't think that would be an unnecessary luxury. I hope to get an answer to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u18	Prime Minister, I believe that European strategic autonomy is an important concept that will determine European policy in the future. The specific content of this strategic autonomy will soon become reality. Our country, too, will have to work to promote European competitiveness, and hence Europe's strategic autonomy. What matters to me in this question is the way in which Belgium will implement that strategic autonomy. It goes without saying that Flanders, with its very open economy, comes to the European strategic economy. It is therefore necessary to focus on open, free, rules and common sense-based trade and world trade. For example, we need to focus on diversified stocks, diversification of supply lines and partial re-shoring of production. What we absolutely must not do is allow ourselves to be tempted into simplistic solutions, such as protectionism or market distortions. I think you agree with me that the internal market is one of the cornerstones of our European cooperation and that we must not put it at risk. Prime Minister, what position does your government take in the defence at European level of strategic autonomy? How do you define strategic autonomy? Do you agree that the stimulation of open world trade should be part of strategic autonomy? Could you explain the negotiating framework of the concept a little more? What, for example, are the chalk lines that the European administration itself puts forward? What has been recorded and what can possibly be added?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u19	Mr President, the debate on strategic autonomy accelerated with the outbreak of the COOVID-19 pandemic. This crisis demonstrated the EU's strategic dependence on some third countries in the health sector. This concept has already been extensively addressed in the Commission Communication of 10 March 2020 on its new industrial strategy, in which it referred to the need to reduce EU dependence on critical materials and technologies, food products, infrastructure and safety. The European Council on 1 and 2 October asked the Commission to identify the EU's strategic dependence on the most sensitive industrial ecosystems. It also called for measures to reduce this dependence, including by diversifying production and supply chains, ensuring strategic stocks and promoting production and investment in Europe. This objective demonstrates what I think strategic autonomy is all about, but it goes without saying that it will have to be further refined in the coming months. In the run-up to this European Council, this issue was discussed internally in the consultations between federal and federated entities. Some chalk lines of the Belgian position were established. They provide, inter alia, that strategic autonomy is an open and offensive concept aimed at strengthening European competitiveness, but should not give rise to any form of protectionism. Attention should also be paid to strengthening European value chains and diversifying strategic supply chains, not just in terms of health. The aim is to create new players capable of competing at global level, with the active participation of our SMEs in these clusters and with respect for the rules of a level playing field within the internal market. Such an approach promotes a dynamic industrial policy in the EU, provides support to SMEs and start-ups and allows further deepening of the internal market, while also stimulating innovation. I agree with you that, of course, we should also be aware of what is happening outside the EU. On the external front, encouraging international trade, strengthening international trade rules to create more balanced conditions and strengthening European exports and imports are an integral part of open strategic autonomy. Instead of isolating itself, the European Union must better manage its dependence on the rest of the world and thus ensure a level playing field in all dimensions. In this context, Belgium advocates a balanced but assertive use of trade defence instruments and an effective screening of foreign direct investment. Given that the debate on strategic autonomy is still at a relatively early stage, all points of discussion have not yet been settled at EU level. A crucial aspect is to strike a balance between those Member States that defend free trade without too much regulation and those that support a more independent Europe in setting its standards, defending its industry and securing its sources of supply. I am convinced that it should be possible for the EU to find this middle course in the coming months, while at the same time strengthening the resilience of the European economy and achieving a digital and green transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u20	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your comprehensive reply. You say that strategic autonomy and its implementation have already been laid down in the Commission's proposal, but you know as well as I do that it is just a proposal and that its impact is mainly at the level of the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament and that it can change a lot there. I am very pleased that Belgium is talking about open strategic autonomy, which would not be used as a means of achieving protectionism. I would like to argue in favour of this, because I think this is very important, not least for all our SMEs, on which much of our economy rests. The screening of foreign investment must certainly be done very thoroughly, because unfortunately we now see all too well that this crisis is sometimes abused by foreign countries, and I do not mean the other European Member States, but countries from outside Europe to take over some of our crown jewelry companies. I think we should make sure this doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, I had actually already submitted my speech to your predecessor at a time when the government negotiations were still under way. However, she did not have the habit of coming to the committee fairly regularly to answer questions. I notice the old version has been resubmitted for you. However, that does not alter the essence of the problem that I want to raise today. Since 20 July 2020, we have seen that King Filip has been actively involved in trying to bring together a majority government. At some point, those interferences even went so far as to refuse to accept the resignation of two pre-formers. I wonder what the King is interfering with. Article 86, first paragraph, of our Constitution stipulates that the King shall appoint and dismiss his ministers. On that constitutional basis, he does indeed play a role, as long as, usually after elections, there is a resignation government in current affairs. However, once there is a government with full authority, the King no longer has any constitutional basis to interfere in the formation of government coalitions, let alone to take formal decisions on them with a view to new governmental formations. In that case, any initiative in this area must be interpreted as an unlawful and undemocratic interference by the Head of State without any constitutional basis. The King, in his capacity as Head of State without any democratic legitimacy, is also supposed to be politically strictly neutral. A lot of constitutional specialists have questions about his attitude. In Le Soir, a number of French-speaking constitutional specialists were very clear and categorical in their opinion that the King cannot and should not interfere when there is a government with full authority. In that connection, I would like to quote two statements for you. Marc Verdussen, enerzijds, stelde het volgende, ik quote: "To admit that today the King can take any initiative when the government has not resigned would be unconstitutional and very dangerous, for this would be to allow at any time in the legislature he can take an initiative to replace one government with another."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u22	Marc Uyttendaele sloot zich daarbij aan, net als Christian Perin die stelde, ik quote: "As long as the government is full exercise and is not resigning, I do not see that there can be any appointment of a trainer or informant. Since the creation of the country, this has not happened." Not that I expect the King's immediate initiatives to put this government aside, Prime Minister, but it is a sign that all constitutional specialists agree on something this time. Nor can you deny that it is an unprecedented precedent. If there are political problems with government compositions, it is in a parliamentary democracy where there is a government with full power in power, not the King to try to solve those problems, but the Prime Minister. If a minority government with full powers is in power as we have seen over the past few months, it is up to the head of government to find a solution in Parliament, a majority by negotiating with opposition parties on the extension of the majority or a formula with no support or whatever. If we do not find a solution, we can only offer the resignation and go to the electorate. That would be the normal course of action. Only then can the King make his move. However, that constitutional arrangement was violated, and hence my questions to you. Do you dispute that the government had Wilmès full powers? If not, how do you rhyme with the King's actions to point out informants and such in the light of Article 96 of the Constitution? On the basis of what constitutional basis does the King seek to form a majority government when there is a government with full powers? Why didn't the King take any initiatives to give the presidents of other parties, "PS," sp.a., who, from 13 May to 15 June, attempted to form a majority government and the presidents of MR, Open Vld and CD&V, who did the same in the period from 17 June to 19 July, a royal commission? From July 20th, he did. Why did the King ask on 17 and 18 August, when the attempts to form a government majority were entirely on apegaps, only some of the parties represented in Parliament were in audience and others were not at all? Did he not violate his duty of neutrality? I also wonder whether all the King's interference since 20 July has always been covered by Prime Minister Wilmès and her government. Do you know whether Prime Minister Wilmès had expressly given prior consent to any initiative or move in this matter by the King? Can you confirm that this is a flagrantly unconstitutional situation and, finally, will you bring the King to his senses, for the future, that as long as there is a government with full powers, he has no role to play in the appointment of informers, reformers or whatever that has to do with the creation of a majority government?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u23	Mrs Pas, as you said, every act of the King must be covered by the government. You will understand that I cannot answer questions you address to the previous Prime Minister. The King has at various times taken initiatives during the process of a new government taking into account the political situation at that time, always with the aim of achieving a full government. As I said, every act of the King is covered by the government. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the generally accepted rule that the outgoing Prime Minister, who co-signs the appointment decision of his or her successor, confirms that the formation of government has been properly conducted within the rules of the Constitution and the constitutional custom surrounding the formation of government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u24	Mr Prime Minister, I would have liked to have put these questions to your predecessor, but this was not possible because of the circumstances. However, I find it striking that, because of the fact that the King is covered by the government and that your successor has signed, all constitutional specialists would be wrong that Article 96 of the Constitution was not respected. However, that is not the case. As far as we're concerned, the King has nothing to do with this. I have already put forward a proposal to make government formation much more transparent with a role for Parliament, like the Netherlands, but that proposal was voted down by the other parties. After the elections, the King does indeed have a role to play, but not when there is a government with full powers in the saddle. To bring that to the King's sense, I have prepared a motion of recommendation, Prime Minister, because from your reply I did not understand that you intended to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u25	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Barbara Pas and the Prime Minister's reply, - having regard to Article 96 of the Constitution, - whereas the Wilmès Government was a government with full powers and therefore had no constitutional role to play in the attempt by a number of parties to establish a majority government; - whereas, since 20 July 2020, the king has been actively involved in these attempts to establish a majority government by receiving certain party chairmen in audience, by appointing "royal commissioners" and "preformers," giving them certain political assignments and accepting their resignation; - whereas on 21 September the King went one step further in his intervention by refusing the resignation of two 'preformers', which is an eminent political act; - having regard to the fact that in his audiences of party chairmen the King was very selective and therefore known political colour; - whereas several constitutional specialists consider that this interference by the king is unconstitutional and particularly dangerous; - whereas the King, as an unelected Head of State, has no democratic legitimacy and must therefore be politically neutral in a parliamentary democracy; - whereas, in the situation of a minority government with full authority, it is not for the king to take steps or interfere in the attempts to achieve a majority government, but for the Prime Minister to seek a majority in Parliament and to negotiate with the opposition parties support or the formation of a majority government; - whereas if the Prime Minister does not find this majority, he or she must offer the resignation of his government and hold new elections; asks the government to inform the king that in formation attempts to reach a government by a parliamentary majority have no role to play when there is already a government with full powers." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs Barbara Pas and the Prime Minister's response, - having regard to article 96 of the Constitution; - Considering that the Wilmès government was a government with full powers and that, as a result, the king had no constitutional role to play in attempts by a series of parties to form a majority government; - Considering that, since 20 June 2020, the king has been actively involved in these attempts to form a majority government by receiving several party presidents in court, appointing 'royal mission officers' and 'pre-formers' in this context, entrusting them with certain political missions and accepting their resignation; - Considering that on 21 September last the king intervened even more strongly by refusing the resignation of two 'pre-formers', which constitutes an eminently political act; - Considering that the king has been particularly selective in granting his hearings to party presidents and has thus given to know his political preferences; - Whereas several constitutionalists are of the opinion that this interference by the king is unconstitutional and particularly dangerous; - Whereas, as an unelected Head of State, the king cannot rely on any democratic legitimacy and is therefore bound, in a parliamentary democracy, to adopt a political attitude of total neutrality; - Whereas, in the situation of a minority government with full powers, it is not for the king to take initiatives for the constitution of a majority government or to interfere with attempts to do so, but that it is for the prime minister to seek a majority in Parliament and negotiate with opposition parties with a view to obtaining their support or forming a majority government; - Whereas where the Prime Minister does not find that majority, he or she must resign and re-elect; asks the government to tell the king that he has no role to play in attempts to form a government with a parliamentary majority when there is already a government with full powers." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Tim Vandenput. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Tim Vandenput. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u26	Mr Prime Minister, I had hoped that I would no longer have to interperate on this legislative period. This is a dossier that I have been following up for some time and in which all kinds of announcements and promises have been made in the past. It concerns the Royal Decree of 19 July 2001 which states that it is still possible for former ministers and secretaries of state to be able to count on as many as two full-time staff for an entire term of office. That is an archaic and expensive system, which is no longer justified, especially in times of savings and additional corona expenditure. Above all, change has been promised for a long time. In 2011, Prime Minister Leterme's cabinet had already drawn up a letter with all kinds of changes. This proposal was rejected by the Di Rupo cabinet, even though it had been formulated in the context of the political crisis in 2010-2011. In this crisis, a very large number of ministers succeeded each other for a period shorter than the duration of a full legislature. Last legislature, I questioned former Prime Minister Michel about this. This was in 2014, 2015 and 2017. Each time the answer was that he was working on it, so that the effect would be seen from this legislature, after him. He wouldn't change on the way. However, that is not impossible. A similar system existed in the Flemish Parliament. That's where the scheme was modified on the way. Only former ministers and secretaries of state who no longer reside in Parliament will be able to have one employee for two years. That adjustment alone since 1 January 2016 saves the Flemish government half a million euros a year. The promise was that this would also have been adapted from this legislature. In the meantime, the next legislature has started. The majority of the farewell ministers have already announced that they will make use of this archaic law. Does anyone else have any faith in all those promises at all? What former ministers and former Secretary of State of the Michael Government and the Wilmès Government are currently using this arrangement? What is the annual and total cost of that scheme? What would be the cost of this scheme if it were to continue to exist throughout the current legislature, in maximum conditions, so if everyone were to rely on it? This government is talking about new political culture. Can I therefore assume that you will come forward with a detailed proposal to amend that Royal Decree of 19 July 2001? If so, in what sense and with what timing? If you're not going to, can you motivate this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, at the beginning of October, we learned that virtually the majority of outgoing ministers and secretaries of state, i.e. those who were not included in your team, took the option of retaining staff at their disposal. Yet we were told a new political culture. There was going to be some change! But obviously, that's not the case! This staff is fully funded by the House for five years. This advantage is offered both to ministers who remain parliamentarians and therefore have parliamentary attachés – as is the case with Mr Bacquelaine with whom I enjoyed debating when he was minister – and to ministers who were not re-elected. This provision is in no way subject to the need to perform specific tasks. This is one of the many privileges already enjoyed by ministers paid entirely by workers' money, not to mention their salary of more than 10 000 euros. Among other things, ministers benefit from a driver and the right to hire domestic workers at the expense of citizens. This practice is not new and concerns all federal ministers and secretaries of state and federated entities, as well as the presidents of the six parliaments. Remember the debate we have had about Mr Siegfried Bracke, who needs to grow under the work now and who still needs two attachés to produce the magnificent prose he provides us every day. In a parliamentary question in 1997, the then Prime Minister, Jean-Luc Dehaene, who is increasingly cited in our House as a reference, justified the measure by saying that "outgoing ministers remain confronted for some time after the end of their ministerial duties with an additional workload arising from the functions performed". Prime Minister, in these circumstances, why in France, where there are significantly fewer ministers per capita than in Belgium, outgoing ministers do not retain or seem to suffer from a collaborator? It is also unlikely that a minister who has served less than a year in a government will have a significant workload after the end of his or her duties. And we can say that Belgium knows about the waltz of ministers. Today, at all levels of power, there are now, if I have not forgotten anyone, 48 ministers. From excesses to exclusively political justifications since they are as counterproductive as unpopular, and extremely expensive. On the one hand, the government keeps making our pockets and making the workers pay, and on the other hand, we plan public services. And we're just going to pursue these different privileges. That's why I have a few questions, Prime Minister. First, do you intend, again during this parliamentary term, to put an end to these privileges? Secondly, can you confirm who the outgoing ministers have asked to have access to this privilege? I quoted Mr. Bacquelaine, but maybe he doesn't ask either. I would be interested to have a detailed list of those who requested it. Thirdly, do you not think that with the EUR 10 million that this would cost, we could take other initiatives such as, for example, today, promoting the fight against coronavirus? I look forward to your answer. I don't know yet if I'll table a motion. I make it depend on the relevance of your answer. I'm going to listen to him with great attention. I have no doubt about the break with past policies, which will happen in two or three minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u28	An annual appropriation of 112.152,30 euro per former member of the government for two employees is provided. The Royal Decree of 19 July 2001 also provides for the posting of former government members who no longer carry out ministerial duties. The Royal Decree provides for this provision for the duration of the legislature, which in practice means the appointment of a new federal government after elections. As far as your question on the additional benefits for the former ministers is concerned, they do not reserve the right to a driver or, for example, household staff. Ministers had access to it in the past, but that is no longer the case. Thirteen former members of the Government are entitled: Mr. Peeters, Mr. Michel, Mr. Reynders, Mr. Geens, Ms. De Block, Mr. De Crem, Mr. De Backer, Ms Muylle, Mr Ducarme, Ms Marghem, Mr Bacquelaine, Mr Bellot and Mr Goffin. On the basis of the appointment orders received by the SPF Chancellery on 26 October, the following former members of the government make use of the regime: Mr. Reynders (1.75 FTE), Mr. Peeters (1 FTE), Ms. De Block (2 FTE), Mr. Goffin (1.5 FTE), Mr. Geens (2 FTE), Mr. De Crem (1.8 FTEs), M. Ducarme (2 FTEs), M. Bacquelaine (2 FTEs). From 1 November 2020, Mr. Charles Michel will no longer make use of this scheme. The government wants to make it a priority to help strengthen confidence in politics through democratic renewal. To this end, the government has made a series of concrete commitments in the government agreement, on which we want to start a discussion as a matter of priority. We do not, of course, want to avoid the wider debate, which may also include the situation of outgoing members of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u29	Prime Minister, I will review the list of excellence and excellencies who use it. I couldn't write down all the names so fast. Prime Minister, you are committed to nothing. In fact, this dossier is the symbol of old political culture, while you want to make new political culture your trademark. It is not just two staff members during an entire term of office. You yourself say that the legislature takes until the appointment of a new government after next elections. Given the average lead time of government negotiations in this country, there is no guarantee that this will end in 2024. It could take many more years. Prime Minister, the intention of the entire KB was to prevent ex-government members suddenly falling without a framework. But if you become a Member of Parliament again, you are entitled to employees. Then there is no need to add extra staff. I am very disappointed that in these times of savings you do not take the commitment to adapt that scheme. It is a commitment that has already been taken by your predecessors. I do not know if I can believe the press when it reports that it was the MR who put this matter on the brake. It was, after all, Charles Michel who, during the previous legislature, was very committed to finally abolishing it. The system is no longer defendable, but apparently all the bits help to achieve your objectives of 80 % efficacy rate. Apparently, every job counts. I don't think it's defendable. I'm disappointed in your answer. I will therefore put forward a motion for a recommendation to give you a boost to finally abolish this system completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u30	Prime Minister, I felt uncomfortable when you had to give the list. Indeed, I was wondering how many former ministers benefited from the double jackpot. We could believe that some – once again MPs and collaborators – would not dare abuse the system. When your services gave you this list, you had to say to yourself: "No, that's not possible!" Reynders: double jackpot! European Commissioner: bling bling bling! It still takes 0.75% more and rallies it all. As for Peeters, I'm not even talking about it, as it was also recashed. Maggie De Block: it will work dry in Parliament, while she already worked with two attachés. In addition, it also affects the double jackpot: with four attachés – Maggie De Block's high productivity in Parliament in perspective! I come to Mr. Ducrame: double jackpot too. Mr Bacquelaine: double jackpot too. That's amazing! So everyone who was already in a position came knocking on your door, probably a little shameful – sending a small e-mail, of which they are not very proud. And then we send the Prime Minister here to tell us that nothing is going to change and that it's the double jackpot. How can I justify it? I don't understand, Prime Minister. Then you'll be surprised... The citizens are simply degout from the situation in Belgian politics. The argument that these ministers still have to work or get any further questions is simply due to the fact that they all have staff. This is just a double jackpot, to be able to give jobs to the family or party members. Prime Minister, I was in some doubt, but I will have to table a motion of recommendation because I am disappointed. The pressure from the bottom remains necessary and you will of course receive our support if the motion is approved. I hope, therefore, that there will again be no colleague with a simple motion for a resolution. After all, who would dare to sign it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u31	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A first motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Raoul Hedebouw and the Prime Minister's reply, - having regard to the Royal Decree of 19 July 2001 on the implementation of the policy bodies of the federal administrations and on the staff of the federal administrations, designated to be part of a cabinet of a member of the government or of a college of a Community or region, - whereas the arrangement whereby a former minister or secretary of state is given at least two full-time staff throughout the legislature is an archaic and expensive arrangement which, certainly in times of savings, is no longer justifiable; - having regard to the repeated announcements by successive federal governments since 2011 to amend this regime; - having regard to the concrete commitment of former Prime Minister Michel to implement the amendment of this arrangement by the start of this legislature; - having regard to the fact that this arrangement is still in force and is being used by the new series of farewell ministers; asks the government the provisions of the Royal Decree of 19 July 2001, whereby a former minister or secretary of state is given two full-time staff throughout the legislative period, this legislature is to be abolished." A first motion for a recommendation was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Raoul Hedebouw and the Prime Minister's response, - having regard to the Royal Decree of 19 July 2001 on the installation of the strategic bodies of the federal public services and the personnel of the federal public services designated to be members of the cabinet of a member of the government or of a college of a Community or of a Region; - Whereas the regulation providing for the provision of a former minister or secretary of state of not less than two full-time employees is of an archaic and costly nature which is no longer justified, in particular at a time of restrictions; - in view of the repeated announcements by successive federal governments since 2011 to amend these regulations; - having regard to the formal promise of former Prime Minister Michel to amend this regulation before the beginning of the current legislature; - since this regulation is still in force and is applied to the benefit of the new set of ministers who have left the government; asks the government to abolish under the current legislature the regulation introduced by the Royal Decree of 19 July 2001 which provides for the provision of two full-time employees to a former minister or secretary of state." A second motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Raoul Hedebouw and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplays of Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Raoul Hedebouw and the Prime Minister's reply, - whereas former ministers who no longer carry out their duties are still entitled to a number of staff members and are financed by the Chamber of Representatives; - whereas the former ministers who became representatives of the people can already make use of parliamentary assistants and that ex-Ministers who did not become Members of Parliament no longer have any obligations to ask for staff financed by the Chamber of Representatives; - whereas a large number of outgoing ministers were only ministers for a short period of time and therefore there can be no major workload to be dealt with; - considering the generous remuneration of ministers and high party donations which allow themselves to finance any services; - considering the other privileges which ministers were already entitled to and which were financed by taxpayers, such as a driver; - whereas in the past a number of such employees were used as campaign aid or even as drivers; - whereas this costs the taxpayer EUR 10 million throughout the legislative period in a period of high budgetary expenditure and rising social needs, inter alia, through discards; - whereas, for example, French ex-Ministers do not know this advantage; - having regard to the recommendations of the Political Renewal Working Party on previous legislative periods to limit the use of such staff; - having regard to a previous resolution adopted in 2017 which called on the Government to restrict the right to use such staff, but not to abolish them in full; - having regard to the fact that the Bureau of the Chamber of Representatives had already indicated that it would review this arrangement; - having regard to the statements made by the De Croo Government to undertake political renewal and to seek to regain the confidence of the citizen; asks the government to stop the allocation of staff financed by the Chamber of Representatives to ex-Ministers." A second motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Raoul Hedebouw and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Raoul Hedebouw and the Prime Minister's response, Whereas former ministers who no longer hold office are still entitled to a number of employees and this advantage is financed by the House of Representatives; - Considering that former ministers who have returned to parliament may already use the services of parliamentary collaborators and that former ministers who are not parliamentarians no longer have obligations requiring them to have staff financed by the House of Representatives; - Whereas a large number of outgoing ministers have been ministers only for a short period of time and therefore do not have a significant workload for the cases they should still be dealing with; - considering the very advantageous remuneration of ministers and the high allocations granted to parties which allow the parties concerned to finance the services which they should possibly use themselves; - considering other privileges to which ministers have already been entitled and which have been financed by the taxpayer, such as a driver; Whereas, in the past, a series of such collaborators have been used in electoral campaigns or even as drivers; - Whereas, throughout the term of the legislature, these services represent a cost of EUR 10 million, while we are in a period of high budgetary expenditure and increasing social needs, particularly in the light of redundancies; Whereas former French ministers, for example, do not benefit from this advantage; - considering the recommendations made by the Political Renewal Working Group, which met during the previous legislative term, to limit the use of this type of staff; - considering a previous resolution of 2017 adopted by a large majority by the House, which called on the government to limit the use of this type of collaborator, without, however, calling for its complete abolition; - Considering that the Bureau of the House of Representatives has already indicated under the previous legislature that it will review these rules; - Considering the statements of the De Croo government announcing that it would be working towards a political renewal with a view to seeking to regain the confidence of the citizens; asks the government to put an end to the granting to former ministers of collaborators financed by the House of Representatives." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Tim Vandenput. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Tim Vandenput. Motions for resolutions will be voted on at a later date b. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would have liked to have asked you this question two weeks ago in plenary, but understandably you then had to go to the European Council, which is why I am now putting it here. The European Council on 15 and 16 October was a very important Council, including the Brexit. It will have a very important impact on the Länder, especially since one of the major points on the table is fisheries, which is an explicit state competence. Then it is strange to see that the Belgian delegation to the European Council is made up exclusively of federal representatives. If you strictly adhere to the 1994 cooperation agreement, you will respond to it, but I think you know as well as I do that if there were a political will to formally include even one of the state representatives in it, that would be perfectly possible. After all, their presence is very important to prevent Belgium from sitting there deaf and blind at the table. They have a great deal of data at their disposal for these negotiations. It is said that this delegation is limited for the sake of COOVID-19, but even in a limited delegation, this is perfectly possible. I am a lawyer of education and I have worked for six years as an assistant at the European Institute of Law. If there is one thing I learned when I went into politics, it is that if there are legal rules, but there is no political will, it will not happen, but if there is a political will and there are no legal rules, then politics will ensure that it can. Hence my very specific question to you, Prime Minister. Are you prepared to include the Land representatives in the Belgian delegation to the European Council in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u33	Mrs Van Bossuyt, the Belgian delegation to the European Council on 15 and 16 October, like the delegations of the other Member States, was extremely limited because of the current sanitary rules in the fight against COOVID-19. Nevertheless, the Länder were closely and transparently involved throughout the course of the European Council. The Permanent Representation to the EU organised the flow of information on this European Council, with regular debriefings by videoconference during the course of the European Council in which the representatives of the Länder participate in the Permanent Representation. For example, a briefing was held on the first day of the Council and on 16 October in the morning, where the Permanent Representative gave the latest information and answered questions. The purpose of this consultation was also to give the representatives of the regions the opportunity to express their concerns about the Council's conduct to the delegation. At the end of the Council there was also a session for the staff of the permanent representatives, in which colleagues from the Länder could also take part.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u34	Mr Prime Minister, to be honest, I find it a little sad. The government agreement states that cooperation federalism will be implemented in the field of foreign policy. It is said immediately, typical of this coalition agreement, that a pragmatic approach will be used. We know immediately what that means, especially that the Länder will not be involved. I knew you were going to say 'for the sake of COVID-19', but I said that if the political will is there this could be perfect. You say they're being closely involved. So you mean a debriefing after the cases have already taken place. Thursday night around 19 you came to tell the ambassador what was said. You know as well as I do that it is important to be able to sit at the table directly - that is also in the interest of Belgium - in order to be able to deal with the necessary information up to date. Brexit is very important for the whole of Belgium. I would urge that in future the political will be shown to give the Länder the status they deserve, in particular to include them in the Belgian delegation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u35	Mr President, Prime Minister, according to an estimate by the European Commission, Belgium is entitled to EUR 5.15 billion from the European Recovery Fund. I have a number of questions to ask. Can the amount to which Belgium is entitled be confirmed? Is it an effective EUR 5.15 billion? The Flemish budget minister asks for EUR 3 billion of this. In a slip of the tongue yesterday, Mrs De Bleeker, the Secretary of State for the Budget rejected the fact that the federal level is estimated at EUR 1 billion. However, she quickly corrected and said that this amount had not yet been forwarded to the Länder. This means that only 4 out of 5 billion euros remain. For us it would be an honorable compromise: 3 billion for Flanders, 1 billion for the federal level and 1 billion for Brussels and Wallonia. Not for us. However, Flanders and the federal level are not alone. There is also the Walloon Region, the Brussels Region and the French Community. How much money does each level charge? Following on, are all levels already finished with their math? The Prime Minister of the French Community spoke out clearly in the media against Flanders' demand for EUR 3 billion. He doesn't agree with that question from Flanders. How is the consultation and distribution going? Mr Prime Minister, I understood yesterday in the Finance Committee that you and the Secretary of State for Relance, Mr Derminne, will be responsible for that discussion. Have there been any initial conversations? Finally, what is the government's view on the distribution of resources from the recovery fund? How do you see this division? What do you think is a fair distribution between regions in this far too complex country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, my question concerns the nature of the recovery fund. It is very important, and this was initially the intention that this recovery fund should be of a temporary nature. At first, there was no discussion about this either. We see, however, that more and more voices are being voiced in order to give this recovery fund a permanent character. Of course, that's not as innocent as it looks at first sight. That is why I would like to put a number of specific questions to you. The European Commission has already indicated that it will borrow for the recovery fund on the financial markets and will repay it through, among other things, the European Union's new own resources. What is the budgetary path of this new revenue? Several Member States, including the Netherlands, have already made it clear that it is very important for them that the recovery fund be temporary and not permanent. What position will Belgium take on this? Mrs Christine Lagarde, the President of the ECB, has already given a different voice. What's your opinion on that? With regard to the European Union's new own resources, there are two possibilities. How do you see that? Are these resources that should be collected by the Member States and then passed on to the European Union? Is it the European Union's own competence to collect these funds? In the latter case, are you in favour of creating a sort of independent European tax administration? In the coalition agreement, you say that the European Union needs to generate even more own revenues, including to discourage harmful practices. What do you mean by these harmful practices? Finally, has Belgium already submitted its relaunch plan to the European Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, from 12 to 21 July, a meeting of the European Council took place on the exceptional nature of the current crisis and the need for an exceptional response to it. This resulted in the European relaunch plan. The duration of this plan is limited to the end of 2023, which underlines its exceptional character. This is also in line with the Belgian position, because we have always stressed the need to focus the EU Relance Plan on the consequences of the COOVID-19 crisis. I can confirm that Belgium is entitled to EUR 5.15 billion in grants under the Recovery and Resilience Facility, which is the main instrument of the EU Relance Plan. However, that amount may change as 30% of the funds available are allocated EUR 1,746 billion to 2023 and this amount will be adjusted in 2022 to take account of the economic evolution of the Member States. The federal government confirms the importance of the future relaunch plan, paying particular attention to the balance between the financing of investment and the reforms to be carried out. Continuity with the National Strategic Investment Pact should also be ensured. It concerns the actual elaboration of the Belgian relance plan and we are currently finalizing the working method. The preparatory work is done by the Secretary of State for Relance, in close cooperation with my services. It goes without saying that the Länder are closely involved. It is only when this process has been approved by all the actors involved, including the Länder, that the substantive work can begin. Like all other Member States, our country is expected to submit the recovery plan to the Commission by 30 April 2021. I cannot anticipate the actual distribution of funds between the different levels of our country's policies. It is important to note that this is not about traditional funds, such as for agriculture or cohesion policy, but about funds that will be allocated on a project basis. Only those projects which will meet a number of specific criteria will be selected by Europe. These include the rapid feasibility or maturity of the projects, their contribution to European sustainability and digital transition objectives, their cross-border added value and the implementation of reforms. With regard to the repayment of the EUR 750 billion of the EU recovery plan, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the repayment of the loans and the corresponding interest will be borne by the Member States that borrow from the EUR 360 billion that has been made available for this purpose. Of the EUR 750 billion, therefore, 390 billion in grants will eventually have to be repaid from the EU budget. In its conclusions of July 2020, the European Council also confirmed that the revenue generated by the introduction of new own resources to 2021 will be used to repay the costs associated with the EU recovery plan. Such reimbursement must be fully realised by the end of 2058. A first step in this respect is the plastic contribution based on non-recyclable plastic packaging in the Member States. With regard to the other new own resources, the European Council asked the European Commission to make concrete proposals for a carbon adjustment mechanism at borders and for a tax on digital activities, with a view to their introduction by 2023. The European Council also mentioned a possible extension of the emissions trading scheme, the ETS, and a financial transaction tax. Our country is open to new EU own resources and will also analyse concrete proposals from that perspective. I would also like to make it clear that the EU's own resources are, of course, due to the Union, but are never levied by the EU itself. This is what the Member States do, which then transfer the amounts collected to the EU level. In fact, there has never been any change in that situation. Member States will continue to work closely with the European Commission to ensure the proper functioning of that process. It is important that possible new own resources do not remove new revenue from the Member States, but are a correction at the European level, where Member States cannot do so themselves. Its collection may be carried out by national authorities. The motivation for introducing a carbon adjustment mechanism at the borders and an expansion of the ETS is to strengthen the EU's climate ambitions while ensuring a level playing field while maintaining the EU's competitiveness vis-à-vis other international players. Our country supports the international work to come up with new agreements on corporate tax. For example, it is generally felt that companies operating in the digital economy also have to pay a fair tax contribution, while they are still doing the dance. Belgium is therefore committed to creating that level playing field or level playing field between the traditional and digital economies. Of course, it is clear that every proposal from the European Commission will be assessed on its merits, but the direction of the march is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u38	Prime Minister, I would like to warn you about the recovery fund. Flemish people pay the most to the European Union from all Europeans. Flemish people are today the largest net contributors to the European Union. The European Restoration Fund of EUR 750 billion really wants to add to that, which is unacceptable to us. I can therefore only endorse a plea to net advantage to the Flemings in the distribution of funds from the recovery fund, which would be only fair. For the first time, common debts are incurred and European taxes are envisaged. First the money is spent, then it is examined how it can be financed. In fact, that is exactly the same situation as with the federal budget of this new government: first spend, then see who will pay for it. Europe is actually Belgium in size. We fit for European taxes, because they are going to be an attack on the Flemish assets. Fiscality is and remains for us a competence of, for and by the Member States. Flanders is not only the largest net contributor of the European Union, Flemings are also entitled to pay the bill of the pivotal European institutions and the dampening of the bottomless southern European wells via European taxes. We fit for a transfer union: Flemish interest does not want half-hearted European compromises to be made at the expense of the Flemings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u39	Prime Minister, it is very important to defend the temporary nature of the recovery fund not only initially, but also permanently. One of the ways of financing this will indeed be own resources. That should not be a reason to see this as a general, new source of funding for all kinds of European policies in the future. The temporary character is therefore very important. In addition, we must be very careful with these new own resources. This remains a competence of the Member States and it is very important not to create a new European tax authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-28-55-commissie-ic291x.u40	I thank the Prime Minister for his presence. Questions which have not been dealt with will be postponed to a next meeting.
