ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u2	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, the country is currently suffering from a health crisis with dramatic consequences. A health crisis that gradually turns into a social crisis; many workers are suffering every day in all sectors, some of which are more affected than others. We'll talk earlier about the nursing staff, nurses and nurses. The country also suffers economically. This is evidenced by the number of companies threatened with bankruptcy, some already announcing that they will have to file the balance sheet. This means that to the millions of temporary unemployed as a result of this crisis, we will soon have to add an even greater number of people who will lose their jobs. We don't have to wait, we have to act. We need a plan for economic recovery and social recovery, because we must be able to give hope to all our citizens, whether they are workers, beneficiaries, entrepreneurs or traders, whether they are public servants or employed in the private sector. A recovery plan is needed to give hope to the people and the country! Prime Minister, we have proposals and put them on the table. The message I'm sending you is clear. Parliamentarians are at your disposal to meet with you and act immediately to revive the economy and to define a new direction that is both socially just and economically effective. That is what we are asking you, Madam Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u3	Madam Prime Minister, Chancellor Merkel and President Macron proposed a plan of no less than EUR 500 billion last week. France and Germany want to finance a corona repair fund through joint European loans. Minister De Croo, to whom I had actually addressed my question, has already expressed himself very enthusiastically about these plans, and that worries me, because every time he opens his mouth in the European Union, it costs the Fleming money. This proposal is a new step in the debate on the new multiannual financial framework, but it is also worrying. Last week, all the Flemish parties in the European Parliament, except the Flemish Interest, voted in favour of a resolution demanding more own resources in the form of debt and more tax revenue for the European Union. That only shows that it is going in the wrong direction. The fear of the Netherlands, Austria, Denmark and Sweden is therefore quite right: the joint European loans open the door to a transfer union from the richer North to the poorer South. We are on our way to a total Belgicisation of the European Union. Paul Magnette has already stated that, as far as he is concerned, the flow of subsidies should not become a one-off, but a structural one, as we are used to in Belgium. Madam Prime Minister, negotiations with the Member States will begin shortly. My question is what mandate the current minority government will negotiate there. Will the temporary government commit this country for years and for billions without any parliamentary debate? My next question is whether you have any idea of the cost. Flanders is already the largest net contributor to the European Union. Belgium is number seven. The distribution key is not yet established, but according to some sources it would be 4 to 5 % for Belgium. That's 20 to 25 billion, Madam Prime Minister. How many billions will you commit to there?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u4	Madam Prime Minister, when one changes one's mind, it is often regarded as something negative in politics, although it can be something very positive. It doesn't have to mean loss of face, it can also be a sign of insight and courage. During this period, German Chancellor Angela Merkel shows that kind of insight and courage. In recent years, during the financial crisis and its resolution, it has strongly opposed greater solidarity in the European Union. Today, however, during the biggest crisis in the history of the European Union, it sounds completely different. Together with the French President, she stated last week that France and Germany chose Europe. The German Chancellor is therefore vulnerable and dares to give in, against nationalists and populists, despite the beating and rattle that the nation state alone no longer has a future. Madam Prime Minister, Germany and France should opt for Europe and Belgium should do the same. That's my first question. Macron and Merkel choose for relance and Belgium must also choose for it. We are experiencing a health crisis and there is another social crisis, just like an economic crisis, which seems to be taking a long time. As far as we are concerned, the revival of the economy must also be a reinvention of the economy. In this new economy, medical equipment must be produced here again and workers who lose their jobs must be able to work in the sectors of the future. We need to embrace the Green Deal at European level as a solution instead of seeing it as a problem. I hope that we will finally be able to join the 20 countries that proclaim that they can deliver on the Green Deal. This too is indeed part of the plan of Merkel and Macron, accelerating the greening and the (...) of our economy. Madam Prime Minister, I hope you will be very clear in that regard. Do not be distracted by the previous statement, be distracted by nationalists and populists. But follow Angela Merkel (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u5	Madam Prime Minister, exactly two weeks ago I asked you when the second-timers would be allowed to return to their residence, in the Ardennes or on the coast. You didn't answer at all at the time. Meanwhile, something has happened and the virologist-politicologist Marc Van Ranst has already said three times, on 3 April, 6 May and 12 May, that there is no problem for the second stayers to sicken their quarantine in their second stay. This was also supported by virologist Herman Goossens, who says the sea air is better than the office air. Even the president of GEES, Mrs Erika Vlieghe, does not think it is a medical problem. Belgian hospitals are no longer overloaded. By the way, you have undermined enforcement by saying that a family may come to the coast to visit a mother-in-law, but not to see if the crane leaks in an apartment. On Monday evening you also had a visit from Flemish Prime Minister Jan Jambon. Both he and Minister of Tourism Zuhal Demir insist on a quick opening of the second residences. When will you put the light on green for the second stay? When will you give hope to the catering industry? In Italy and Spain, hotels and restaurants are partly open. In the Netherlands, hotels and restaurants may be partially open on 1 June. France will follow on 2 June. Germany will follow on 3 June. I would like to have a ruling on this. Our catering industry is one of the most bleeding economic sectors, with a loss of EUR 47 million a day and extremely high unemployment. I would like you to set a date so that the catering industry can hope to get back to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u6	Madam Prime Minister, some companies and shops have been restarted. However, it is not because the companies and shops are reopened that they are also running at full speed. Their turnover is still one third lower than before the crisis. Other sectors should not even reopen and still have no future prospects if they are allowed to reopen. I am thinking of the cultural sector, I am thinking of the catering sector and I am thinking of the tourism sector. Many fear that they will not survive the current crisis. In fact, the National Bank of Belgium predicts that a lot of companies will go bankrupt and a lot of employees will be fired. One in four hospitality stores are even afraid of having to close down. In the cultural sector, even half of them live with that fear. Madam Prime Minister, measures were quickly taken at the beginning of the crisis to support people and businesses. I am thinking of technical unemployment, the bridging credit, the delay in payment and the bank guarantee. Today, however, it has become clear that this is not enough and that more is needed. What we need to do today is to invest. We must invest to save our businesses, we must invest to save our jobs and we must invest to save purchasing power. Madam Prime Minister, when are you coming out with your relance plan? How will you ensure a sector-oriented approach? One sector has been hit harder than the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u7	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, this is finally great and good news from the European Union! I am thinking here of the reunion between Mrs Merkel and Mr Macron and of their initiative to try to revive the European economy. The solidarity recovery plan proposed by the two leaders is important, even if things are not won in advance. Some European countries have already shown up to make rather negative remarks or comments on this plan. In any event, this plan deserves support because it is very important from an economic point of view, but also from a political point of view. Today, we expect a demonstration, at European level, of solidarity, of a community of destinies of Europeans who help each other according to their ability to contribute and their needs in terms of reviving particular sectors of the European economy. We expect Belgium to stand in favour of those who are enthusiastic about this initiative. So far, our country has been silent. I would therefore like to know Belgium's position on this recovery plan. Prime Minister, what could be the positive effects of this plan on our economy? What could be Belgium's contribution to this plan and in what form? What can be his future? Have you come into contact with countries that may be sceptical, but which should be able to adhere to this plan that many Europeans are eagerly waiting for?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u8	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, this Monday France and Germany made the joint proposal for a European recovery plan. Paris and Berlin proposed that the European Commission should be indebted to the tune of EUR 500 billion and then contribute this money through the Community budget to the states, regions and sectors most affected by the VOCID-19 pandemic. This Franco-German proposal will be presented to the Twenty-Seven and will undoubtedly be discussed. The European Commission has already stated that a balance must be struck between this Franco-German proposal and the demands of other States. This agreement between the French President and the German Chancellor shows that within the European Union it is possible to reconcile visions in the name of the common good. Several Member States, including Spain and Italy, welcomed this proposal, with Italy even wishing to increase the budget envelope. However, one issue remains outstanding. The granting of financial aid for recovery is a matter of debate. Some States such as Croatia are in favour of subsidies. Others, such as Austria, Denmark and the Netherlands, advocate the granting of loans. Madam Prime Minister, a Franco-German agreement most often provides a basis for discussion within the Twenty-Seven. Do you think this proposal will convince more reluctant Member States? If so, does Belgium intend to take bilateral initiatives to convince it of its merits? This proposal mentions a EUR 500 billion loan on financial markets by the European Commission. How do you think these means will be granted? What criteria will they allow these funds to be allocated? Does Belgium defend the principle of subsidy or the principle of granting loans?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, day after day we see the figures coming out at 11 a.m. and we can all see that they are moving in the right direction. We can only be satisfied with this, when we think of all the human suffering that was associated with the very high figures we saw before. As these figures improve, the call for more activities to be restarted sounds increasingly louder, in addition to the things already announced by the previous National Security Council. An evaluation exercise was built in to assess the impact of each measure. That moment is coming right now. However, a number of difficult issues remain on the agenda. By what time can clarity be provided in this respect? I know that some people do not think that the second-timers are such a sympathetic group, but it is of course a group that does have a certain ownership right on a good. Those people are asking for clarity. When would they be able to return to their second residence? That seems to be something that needs to be made clear in the foreseeable future. I saw you make statements on this yesterday. Can you confirm whether good news can be expected in the short term? Furthermore, our group would like to put forward two priorities for the following relaxations. The first concerns the schools. I know that this is a competence of the Communities, but you are the President of the National Security Council, so I ask you to take this with you. The conditions for reopening primary schools and kindergarten classes are very draconian. If the figures are to evolve favourably, it must be possible to send all school years to June. If we can organise childcare up to 20 kindergartens, it should also be possible to reopen kindergartens. Do you see a perspective there and will you discuss it from the federal level with the colleagues of the Communities? Finally, I think we are all looking forward to a start-up of the catering industry. Everyone's asking for support. It's about small businesses. They need help. What path can they be offered if these figures continue to evolve favourably? Is it June 8th or can it be sooner? What are the prospects?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u10	Madam Prime Minister, "If I could wish for one thing, it's a little more money, because our food is running out." That testimony of the thirteen-year-old Dylan in Karrewiet is painfully revealing the current state of affairs in many vulnerable families. There are thousands of Dylans in our country. They were there before corona and the virus did not reduce their poverty, quite the contrary. Many people lose a large part of their income and struggle to keep their finances above water and the corona crisis pushes people even deeper into poverty. New arms are also emerging: people with an interim job or with a precarious employment status who lose their jobs; people who did have a job and just got the ends tied together, but who are now not getting around with their temporary unemployment benefits; students who, thanks to their student job, could continue their studies, but can no longer do so because their jobs are lost. If we do not want these people to drown, we urgently need to help them, because every day we delay aid is a day too much. Since April, the OCMW's have also been flooded with applications. In some municipalities, applications for a living wage have increased by 25% or more. Food aid applications are also increasing. While those vulnerable families are getting their hands on how to get food on the table, they also need to ensure that they have enough laptops to get their children to take lessons online. However, this often does not work for them, and so children are at risk of falling behind in learning or even falling completely. They're harrowing scenes. At the same time we see a lot of beautiful initiatives in the field: municipal authorities and associations that do food distribution and collect craft packages and laptops. The government has released EUR 3 million for the food banks and EUR 15 million for the OMCWs, but these are drops on a hot plate. Madam Prime Minister, poverty is also economic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u11	You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u12	You know that people spend nothing in poverty and therefore also weigh on our society, although they...(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u13	Colleagues, I just need to tell you again. If you go over your speaking time, the system does not go off at 2 minutes, but it automatically goes off at 2 minutes and 15 seconds, then the rest of your speech will no longer be broadcast. Anyone following our debate through the media will not hear from it anymore. So let us try to respect those two minutes. I've been hard on the government from time to time, too. These are the rules we have agreed on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Prime Minister, first of all a good afternoon. Madam Prime Minister, several economic and financial institutions, including the KBC Group, are working on various scenarios on the consequences of and recovery from the corona crisis. In De Standaard on Friday 15 May we read that the KBC Group, through CEO Johan Thijs, warns us that the economy is much worse than some of us think, and that a scenario of rapid job recovery is. KBC expects it to be something between a U-shaped and an L-shaped recovery and also expects a shrinkage of our economy between 9.5 and 13.2 %. Furthermore, we also read that the KBC Group believes that a second corona wave is coming, but that the government will no longer be able to apply a large-scale lockdown, because our economy can't handle it at all. The National Bank no longer believes in a V-shaped recovery. Yesterday, the National Bank reported that the terrifyingly slow recovery is caused by many factors, including the further development of the pandemic. A U-shaped recovery or perhaps a swoosh recovery, named after Nikelogo, seems more appropriate. Finally, according to the National Bank, almost a quarter of a million people would lose their jobs because of the corona crisis, while just the taxpayers, i.e. those employers and those workers, will have to pay for the measures of a recovery plan. I read that some media argue for a corona bridge pension or a property tax. I can only hope that you will not come forward with symbolic files, but that you will come forward with a very well thought-out and effective package of measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u15	You're gonna have to finish up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u16	Madam Prime Minister, my questions are as follows. What scenarios does the federal government base (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u17	Mr van der Donkt, you are speaking for more than two minutes and thirty seconds, so you need to build up your introduction a little faster. What you are saying is incomprehensible to everyone outside this Chamber. You have to understand that. I understand what you're saying, but your microphone will be switched off automatically.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u18	Mr President, I have asked my questions. Voilà.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u19	You have asked your questions, but it should be possible to ask even more questions within a two-minute period of time. I give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u20	Mr President, I will first answer the questions about the second stay and the third stage. Then I will talk about the macro-economic aspects of the revival. This week, the virologists have confirmed that access to the second stay will have no impact on virological aspects. Therefore, we see no reason to unduly delay that admission. This is something for the short term. However, I would like to clarify that a second stay does not just mean fancy villas. There are a lot of people with a caravan who also have the right to be there. There must be no discrimination here. It's about everyone's second stay. The third phase will take place on 8 June. It's imperative we don't start early. We need this time to be able to determine the effects of phasing out the containment measures, so that we can decide whether or not to continue doing so. There are a lot of questions about a lot of specific sectors. We are working together with the regions and the Communities on common competences. I am thinking, for example, of culture or education. We'll do our best to work together there. We will, of course, respond as soon as possible to those who are waiting for a phasing-out plan for their specific sector. With regard to the more macroeconomic issue of recovery, the Plan Office and the National Bank anticipate a possible recession of 8 per cent this year, probably followed by a rather slow recovery. In the context of crisis management, the government has already taken, in consultation with the Group of Ten and the ten party presidents, a series of measures aimed first of all at supporting the purchasing power of workers, whether employed or self-employed. We have also worked to preserve the health of businesses through various tax and parafiscal measures. I am thinking of bridge law, temporary unemployment for force majeure, the establishment of a moratorium on bankruptcies, bank guarantees to ensure the liquidity of our companies. In just two months, we have already planned to inject EUR 13 billion into our economy and to provide EUR 53 billion in bank guarantees. In just two months, we have decided to inject EUR 13 billion into our economy, and EUR 53 billion has also been given to bank guarantees. Nearly EUR 5 billion of measures go to temporary unemployment and the right to bridge, EUR 2.2 billion goes to a commission and health care measures, EUR 660 million goes to solvency, EUR 350 million goes to postponing social security contributions for self-employed workers, and there is also EUR 100 million for parental leave. These measures have made it possible to address the emergency situation, but, as we all know, they will have to be complemented by additional measures. However, a distinction must be made between, on the one hand, the urgent strengthening of aid and, on the other hand, the revival of our country's socio-economic situation in the long term. The effects of the VOCID-19 crisis will continue to be felt for a long time, and this obviously calls for profound changes for our society. These reforms cannot be improvised outside of a constructive political process in view of the major issues before us. Support for the economy and recovery must certainly complement each other, but the structural measures that will be required deserve, I think, an in-depth political debate based on a very broad democratic base. Two types of measures need to be taken: cross-cutting measures to support the economy as a whole and more targeted measures for the benefit of economic actors more affected by the crisis – I include the most fragile populations. Among the sectors most affected are those whose deconfination takes place later due to the nature of their activity: horeca, events, culture, tourism and the air. These points are not exhaustive. This work must be done with Parliament as soon as possible. In this context, I have asked ERMG to provide us with an accurate and up-to-date state of the economy, which will allow us to start from the most precise diagnostics. The measures we are taking will have to complement the support and recovery initiatives that are being taken at European level. In this context, the Franco-German initiative of the day before yesterday for the European revival after the corona crisis is an important signal. The initiative is important in order to create a certain dynamism and bring a common solution closer. The proposal focuses on several aspects: research, the creation of strategic stocks, the internal market, but indeed the recovery fund. The recovery fund must be fed by the issuance of debt securities on the financial market. The Fund should benefit the regions and sectors most affected by the crisis. Rather, we are in favour of a combination of loans and subsidies. For us, solidarity and responsibility go hand in hand. We must find the right balance in this respect. There are still many questions. There will also be a need for clarification, in particular as to whether or not the funds allocated should be repaid and the criteria for determining which Member States and sectors can benefit from the Fund. In any case, we will choose Europe. There is no doubt about that. The Multiannual Financial Framework will also play a role in recovery. According to the information available to me, everything that concerns digital and the Green Deal will remain at the forefront of Europe's economic redeployment. Some believe that discussions on recovery should be an opportunity to provide the country with a government with a parliamentary majority within it. I also remain convinced that, given the scale of the unprecedented crisis in our country, the sooner that goal is achieved, the sooner we can ensure that the decisions to be taken are based on sustainable and solid foundations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u21	Prime Minister, I take note of your statements. Parliament is at your disposal. Let's be clear, it's not you I'm aiming for. I hear some people come back again with a whim to believe that we will be able to make economic recovery with social asphyxiation, by attacking the wages of workers, by attacking social security, by not understanding that the urgency is now to refinance health care in a sustainable way, structurally and not simply with measures. It will therefore be necessary to be able to hear the social partners and, in particular, the workers' representatives, who must be involved in the economic recovery policy. I would like to make this clear to you: there will be a public witness in this House as to whether the interests of workers, households, people who are suffering or whether, as we have done in the past, we are seeking to defend certain economic interests in the shadows, if not to say in a totally open manner. This, clearly, I am telling you, will be unacceptable to us!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u22	Madam Prime Minister, today people like to rebuke the Flemish interest if we support social measures that benefit their own people, because that would not be good for the budget. Isn't that right, Mr. Chairman? But, Madam Prime Minister, in your previous role, like your predecessors, you have already completely derailed that budget, long before corona times. Now you leave no doubt that you will commit this country to millions and billions of euros in Merkel and Macron's plans. The plan envisages European taxes. Everyone knows that the majority will have to come from the Member States. The Fleming, which is already the largest net contributor to the European Union, will have to pay for the plans you are making. We are opposed to this. From your liberal bubble of selfishness, from your minority government without any mandate, without a majority in this country, you do not have that mandate to charge the Fleming with such a huge invoice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u23	Madam Prime Minister, I am pleased that you are choosing Europe, but in all openness, with a little too much "mits" and "but." I am not saying that to criticize you, because I know that we live in a complex country. I do not think we are sufficiently aware of the historic crossroads we are at. The opponents of solidarity are very strong, and that means that those in favour of solidarity must be equally assertive and equally pronounced. Some will use this crisis and the difficulties at the end of the month to turn even more people against each other, to organize even more competition between people in poverty and people fleeing. We democrats, a broad coalition of humanity, must not let us break up. This means that we in Europe must be much stronger than we are today, in favour of solidarity, and much stronger than today we must embrace the initiative of Merkel and Macron. We do need a full government. I therefore do not understand the nervousness of your chairman, quite frankly. It's good that parties talk to each other. Know that, pending a full government, many parties in this House are prepared to work towards solutions to the social crisis and to sectors such as catering and culture. As long as it is necessary, we must make use of these parliamentary majorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u24	Madam Prime Minister, there's something I must say. You have just said that the second residences will open within a few days, or on 8 June, unless I have misunderstood that. I'm just getting a note in my hands from the National Security Council. The Security Council would ask all mayors whether or not they should come. What system is applicable here? We're on the coast with "hair in the hair." After all, it's not about villas. I have 7,000 mobile homes and small homes in my own municipality. Just give me a date on which the second-timers can come. It is precisely in my view that a survey will now be carried out among all the mayors and all the governors who agree or disagree with this. Show leadership! The coast is bleeding. Give me a clear date. When can the coast be opened again and when can the catering industry start hoping again?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u25	I will tell Mr Tommelein whether he has hair in his hair, as you have said.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u26	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u27	Mr Dedecker, you have made your point. I try to throw in a little bit of humor every now and then. If the Prime Minister still wants to replicate, she can, but she has already answered your questions. The preparation of the Security Council must, of course, also respect the procedures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u28	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the answer. You have listed the measures already taken and you recognise that more is needed. I am pleased to hear that in the meantime you have requested a state of the economy so that we can discuss this quickly here in Parliament. The measures you have already taken have come quickly and have not all been as efficient and conclusive as they were originally intended. So let us start quickly with the parliamentary debate on the relaunch plan. It is clear to us that we need to invest in order to save our businesses and jobs, because that way we can keep purchasing power optimal. I share your view that we will need a parliamentary majority and a full government for a strong relaunch plan. You know that we are asking and ready to take responsibility. Now that the people on the front line have taken responsibility throughout this period, it is time for politics to take responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u29	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I heard you were going to "choose for Europe." It was almost your words of conclusion. I'm obviously not surprised. I would have liked even more ambition, more strength. Because, indeed, we need Europe as bread today. There are all these doubts that arise among some citizens at European level. It would be unprecedented, this debt contracted at European level for the sectors and countries in need. I ask you to fully support this Franco-German initiative. It would be very good news for Europe that it can be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u30	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your clarification of the European Recovery Plan. Belgium, like its neighbours, has had to make considerable efforts to preserve the quality of life of its inhabitants. These efforts have put additional pressure on our country's finances. You're talking about a possible 8% recession from the National Bank and the Plan Office. Madam Prime Minister, in the internal management of this crisis in Belgium, you have largely proved to us your ability to listen, to dialogue, to consult and to adapt constantly to the ever-changing realities of the difficult and complex situation for every resident of this country. I am convinced that at European Union level, in consultation with the Regions, you will use these same qualities so that this rescue plan for the Twenty-Seven, whatever its final form, can quickly support our country. You mention the combination of borrowing and subsidies, you reassure us on digital, on the Green Deal, in a solidarity Europe. I hope that this plan can quickly support this country and ensure that the consequences of the VOCID-19 crisis are limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u31	Madam Prime Minister, my reply is threefold. I believe that it is indeed necessary that, in the short term, we create clarity for the second-time losers. I understand you're committed to that. I hope there will be a date for that soon. I understand that you have to ask the local authorities what the situation is like on the field, but I think they are looking forward to a date as well so that they can clarify the situation. The second question I asked you was about education. Education is a community matter, but I really hope that at the next meeting of the National Security Council the three ministers will come up with a more flexible arrangement that will give everyone clarity in that regard. Finally, for the hard-hit sectors such as the catering industry, I hope, like you, that there will be a very clear communication and that we will be able to develop support measures. I know that your colleague Alexander De Croo with Horeca Flanders is actively looking for solutions. Today, he can communicate a first agreement with a number of parties on VAT. I hope that we will soon be able to support the people in this sector, who are very badly affected, so that they can live on and so that the economy in these branches can be secured.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u32	Madam Prime Minister, we are right to take many economic measures. But also social measures are absolutely necessary to get us out of this crisis. One can't do without the other. The fight against poverty must not, therefore, be at the bottom of the list of priorities or even forgotten. That's not how we're gonna get there. In this way, we will never reduce poverty rates. In this way, we will not be able to bring people out of poverty. It's more than just numbers. It's about people of flesh and blood. We can't leave anyone behind. Especially on the eve of Rerum Novrum, it must be more than ever our ambition to leave no one behind, and certainly no children, because every child who gets less opportunities today carries those scars for life. I am counting on you, Madam Prime Minister, to make the fight against poverty a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u33	Madam Prime Minister, time is pressing to protect our economy and the labour market from the harmful effects of the corona crisis. I can only hope that, in your package of measures, you will take into account our working population, employers and employees. It is they who will have to earn back every euro you spend. Our men and women, who keep our economy straight every day, are, as it were, the caregivers of our economy. Keeping them at work and keeping them healthy must be the priority of the relance plan. It is essential for us to look not only at the revenue side of funding, but also at the expenditure of the federal government. We need a straight, efficient and concrete plan. With regard to the European Recovery Fund, we strongly support, like other countries, the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden and Austria, that this fund will consist of loans. You can see that the N-VA has a constructive attitude. We will carefully assess any opinions you put forward and also offer alternatives ourselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u34	Madam Prime Minister, Madam Minister, after ten weeks on the front line of the crisis and after five years of budget cuts, nursing staff say "stop". Notice of strike is given. No, its members will not stop providing care, caring for patients, doing what they have been trained for – and applying it with motivation and determination. They simply say "stop" to the lack of recognition that they have been suffering for too long. Madam Prime Minister, the welcome that was given to you this weekend at St. Peter's Hospital, this hedge of dishonour that was waiting for you did not show any disrespect, but rather served to be heard without a word or any noise. Why? Because, so far, your government has gone wrong by not being able to guarantee the necessary protective equipment or systematic screening for our caregivers. He also misled himself by publishing two decrees that turned out to be completely out of step with what was happening on the ground. What? A right of requisition? But the nursing staff is very present! He's tired, and even exhausted, certainly, but he's here – and he'll be there tomorrow. Are we talking about a delegation of nursing acts? But that's insane! This means reducing the quality of care to administer and depreciate all the work of caregivers. And then, this week, Mrs De Block, you're getting us the solution! You're proposing to turn the unemployed into nurses with a cup of tea. Minister, we have extended the education of nurses, who are now trained for four years, with 2300 hours of internship. Not only is it a training, but it is above all a vocation that forms the core of this profession. Madam Prime Minister, there was a sincere desire to believe you when you announced yesterday...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u35	You're two thirty minutes away, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u36	Prime Minister, royal orders concerning the requisition of nursing staff and the expanded delegation of nursing acts must be withdrawn, not simply suspended. If they were useful at the beginning of this crisis, to deal with the peak of the epidemic, as well as a shortage of personnel that was such that the army had to be requisitioned in some nursing homes, today these orders are not only useless, but also offensive to the medical staff. This nursing staff is made up of men and women who, throughout this crisis, have devoted themselves not to caring for our patients, fear in the belly, without sufficient protective equipment, and sometimes even at the risk of their lives. And when they dare today to denounce the Michel government's budgetary disinvestment in our health care, to make known their exhaustion and to ask for the support to which they legitimately are entitled, they are treated as "capricious children who do not have what they want". I would also like to say that these remarks are just unacceptable. In my view, they deserved a step on their side or, at the very least, sincere apologies. We didn't get either of them. Today, Madam Prime Minister, I hear you say that you are able to move towards a re-evaluation of the health care staff. Today I would like to know what is actually happening. Do you confirm this upgrading of the healthcare staff, in terms of salaries, but also and above all in terms of working conditions, of course in consultation with the trade unions? Who will be the beneficiaries? Is the track of a bonus permanently ruled out or is it maintained, precisely in the expectation of this famous revalorization? Finally, do you not consider that in view of the shortage of doctors that has been highlighted by this crisis, it is more than time to put an end to the INAMI quotas and the numerus clausus for medical students today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u37	Mr President, Prime Minister, this weekend the staff of the Saint Peter's Hospital in Brussels gave you a very special welcome. The image of the backs turned towards you has gone around the world. However, this action is also a symbol of the dormant displeasure that has existed in the sector for a long time, even before the COOVID-19 crisis. The drop that overflowed the bucket was the two royal decrees that were made. They were taken by Minister De Block of Open Vld, but they were also supported by the ten parties in the supercore, including N-VA, CD&V, sp.a and Groen. I think this should be emphasized once again, because when I hear some people here, it seems as if they were not there when that was decided. Those two royal decrees contain two things. Firstly, the compulsory collection of health care workers on penalties and, secondly, the exercise of nursing activities by people who are not specifically trained or paid for them. I have noted that the protest that has taken place has changed your mind. That is a positive thing. Last week Raoul Hedebouw asked you the same question and he was all alone with his question that they would be withdrawn. Some say it's about timing, but of course it's about the fond of the case and how we're going to deal with that second wave. Will we meet a second wave and a reorganisation in hospitals in dialogue with the care staff, or will we continue to do so undemocratically, through proxy decisions? I've heard that a royal decision is on hold. I don't know what that means. Can you confirm that it will be effectively thrown into the trash can? Finally, what budget do you provide to improve working conditions in the healthcare sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u38	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, our care staff, our healthcare professionals and our nurses demand positive action, perspective and hope from you. Our care staff, together with garbage collectors, cashiers, postmen and bus drivers, have not only kept our country running, but also kept it straight in recent weeks. Thanks to their dedication, adaptability, professionalism, commitment and commitment, our hospitals have been able to cope with the peak of corona patients and have avoided Italian conditions. That deserves respect, appreciation and gratitude. It also deserves to be really listened to their grievances and questions and to be really consulted with them. I hope you agree and that your recent visit to a Brussels hospital has convinced you of that. Their work and commitment does not deserve the scorn and disdain of a minister in function of your government, of your party. I hope that we agree on this. Such a reaction is really not possible, and I urge you to make this publicly clear. It must not end with respect and rightly applause. Structural measures are also needed in the care sector, including on the wage and working conditions of the care staff. With the sp.a group, we have been asking for this for a long time, even before the corona crisis. We are also taking measures, such as our proposal on the use of the Health Care Staff Fund at the end of last year. Madam Prime Minister, this morning, the government sat down with the health workers' unions. I hope you've really consulted. What perspectives or structural measures can you give to our care heroes?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u39	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, I clearly see a consensus to put an end to the two royal decrees, both on the requisition of the nursing staff and on the possibility of entrusting nursing acts. We were asking for it, and that is obviously so much better. But if the caregivers turned their back on you on Saturday when you arrived at St. Peter's Hospital, it's not just for these two royal orders. These two royal decrees are just the drop of water that overflows the vase. They have assumed this crisis in an extraordinary way, but, I say to you loud and clear, it has been years since they felt misled, neither listened to nor heard. It's been years since they've been under increasing pressure every day, whether in the hospital, at home, in nursing homes or in any other structure. They have been investing without counting ever since, at a rate that is accelerating more and more and, above all, with time spent next to patients less and less important. They're not just worried about themselves. They are also concerned about the quality of care and their patients. It is terrible, Madam Prime Minister, that it took the VOCID-19 pandemic for you to finally seem to measure the reality of the daily lives of caregivers! You, who, as Budget Minister since 2015, have validated all successive decisions and actions that have hurt! Some of your ministers still seem not to have understood it, Minister De Block, but also Minister Marghem, who talks about "favoured children" and "misrespect for caregivers". Madam Prime Minister, since Saturday, statements have been made in succession. You'll have to move from announcements to deeds. And I ask you here to make two commitments. The first is a commitment to the method of finally setting up a real concertation – not the "bidon" that we have known in recent years. The second commitment is that of a timetable. Your decisions will have to follow clearly and your announcements cannot be front-end ads.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u40	Mr. Chair, Madam Prime Minister, allow me first of all to express my deepest respect for all the nurses, nurses and medical personnel who turned their back on you on Saturday. They needed courage and great combativity! They have all my respect because if they turned their backs on you, it's to express their weariness. They're tired of us not respecting them for what they are. This staff gave themselves body and soul during this campaign against coronavirus and it was not supported. They turned their backs on you because, when you were Minister of Budget, you struggled to impose 900 million savings on health care. They tell you they don't agree with you. They turned your back on you because there wasn't enough equipment in hospitals, when it was necessary, to fight VOCID-19. They turned your back on you because they're tired of flexibility, because they're tired of money not coming into hospitals. They turned your back on you because they wanted to send you an important signal. Following their initiative, what have we heard, ladies and gentlemen? The minister of this government, Marghem, has been heard speaking to this combat personnel, telling them that they are spoiled children, that they are children who did not get what they wanted. But who does she think she dares to make such a statement? Let her go to work for 24 hours in a hospital, before daring to speak out in front of the people! How dare she say that when, as a minister, she receives 11 000 euros a month? What an arrogance! How can we accept that in 2020, a minister dares to talk to workers who express their resistance? This kind of behavior makes me angry! Last week, Mrs De Block, I was alone in questioning you in Parliament because ten parties had voted on the two orders that are being discussed today. On that occasion, you told me that I was exaggerating, that you had taken these measures for their own good. For their own good! But finally, listen a little to the area! My questions are very clear. First, do you confirm that you will withdraw these royal orders, under pressure from the workers? Secondly, are you going to finally invest in this sector that needs it so much?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u41	Madam Prime Minister, Minister, we have a habit of thanking the healthcare sector here every week. We're gonna do the same today. It may seem a cliché, but it certainly is not for my group. It's a way of expressing our immeasurable respect for these people, for these men and women in white. However, we are also aware that the sector is now on its gums. After they have to work days and nights since the month of March, of course comes the fatigue. Contaminations and outages begin to weigh, not only on those people themselves, but also on the families of those people. That is why we had to flatten the curve of the infections. The government has done everything in its power to avoid the overload of our hospitals. We must ensure that there is sufficient capacity and staff. This also means that we had to be prepared for absolute emergency scenarios. We've all seen the footage of Italy and New York. These are things that we have always wanted to avoid, and we have succeeded in doing so. One such emergency scenario was that in a very acute emergency care staff working in other places could also be reclaimed or that care professionals could also be allowed to perform in such emergencies. In this way we could actually relieve the burden on the staff, because of course we could not ask the current staff to work twice as hard, but we all hope that such an emergency scenario will never be necessary. Of course, we also have a great deal of sympathy for the responses of the care staff. After all, this emergency rule, which has been worked out purely as a precaution, has fallen ill. It seemed a bit like it was a measure against the sector, when it was supposed to be just a protection. Apparently, some trade unions didn't get the idea right either. The urgency does not, of course, allow us to discuss for weeks. However, it is necessary to discuss and adapt these measures, but I understand that this has been done in the meantime. How will the government continue the consultation with the care staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u42	Mr President, Mrs Wilmès, I am a nurse myself. So I fully understand the colleagues who turned their backs on you. I am also a Member of Parliament. So I will not turn my back on you. After all, I want you to hear me very loud and clear today. I, colleagues and the whole population have been asking for support for the white sector for so long. We applaud collectively. We're hanging out the white sheet. Several of our colleagues and I wear them out of respect for the white sector. However, that does not buy the sector itself. We expect you and your government to come out with concrete measures and solutions to the field, which you had promised. You cannot claim that Parliament does not ask that. I am looking at my colleagues from the Committee on Health, who are also here. We have been asking you to do something for two months since the beginning of the crisis. It felt on that plane and still feels like sermons in the desert. However, it has to be said that yesterday you, Mrs De Block, answered one question. That is the question of home care, which receives increased fees for the care of COVID-19, also with retroactive effect on our demand. That's an important signal. It is not a lard but it is an important signal of appreciation towards that sector. Mrs Wilmès, such an action is now urgently needed for the care staff in the healthcare institutions. You have not only received the signal from us and the people. The nurses have also given you an unmistakable signal. We have numbers. I don't know if you know, but an extra patient who needs to take care of a nurse in a ward under her or his care increases the risk of death by 7%. Eventually, the chance of a burn-out and discontent increases by a quarter. You have actually experienced this dissatisfaction in practice. With us we know that there are already too many patients for the nurses and too few hands on the bed. Will you continue to ignore these figures, the signal from the population and the very clear signal from the healthcare sector? When does your promised butter come to the fish for the white sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u43	Mr. President, Prime Minister, our country is facing an unprecedented health crisis for our generations. In recent months, we have heard a lot of calls: hospital staff, front-line caregivers, emergency doctors, family doctors, intensive care teams, nurses and independent nurses. Testimony is more than challenging. We have already been able to relay it here and in the Health Committee. We also know that the difficult situation of caregivers existed before this crisis. The latest survey by the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care, published in January, highlighted the issues facing the sector and our hospital centres. Other studies of first line care work also confirm a situation that needs to be valued and supported. It is in this context, in particular, that the financing of the White Blouse Fund has been decided in this Parliament. Today, the evolution of the pandemic is encouraging. There must be a before and after for these professionals facing a pandemic sometimes without receiving the appropriate protective equipment and as soon as necessary. Prime Minister, you have said that humanly difficult situations have occurred for our health care professionals. You received them last Thursday. You have again called for a sustained dialogue, stressing the essential: caregivers must be able to do their job well. The opposite is abnormal. You said they had to raise their wages like their working conditions. Very concretely, yesterday you held a ministerial committee on this subject. Madam Prime Minister, knowing that your message is very clear, here are my questions: what did yesterday's ministerial committee say about the conditions of health care workers and the royal orders cited? How will you be able to implement the evaluation of a salary adjustment that you call for of your wishes and an improvement in the working conditions of the health care staff? Is structured consultation already planned on these issues?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u44	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, the nursing staff is angry. He showed it to you on Sunday when he turned his back on you. It was hard, but it was symbolic and it was mostly a call for help. If he turned his back on you, it's not because it's angry children that they couldn't get what they were waiting for, as Mrs Marghem said, a minister of your government whose, by the way, we haven't heard the apology yet. No, if he turned your back on you, Prime Minister, it is because he is convinced that it is your government that has turned his back on him by denying the human needs necessary to run our health care system and thinking that we can always ask for more, even if we end up in exhaustion and burn-out. Your government has turned its back on it by leaving the care staff deprived in terms of equipment, masks, testing at the time when the pandemic was really the strongest, at the worst moment when the patients were in the emergency department and the rest homes were no longer able to manage the situation. Your government turned its back on him when it asked you to withdraw the orders of special powers of requisition while these workers give themselves not to the detriment of their families, to the detriment of their health, to the detriment of their comfort in order to save as many lives as possible. You just announced the withdrawal of the arrests challenged by the nurses. It's a first step and it's a good thing. Thank you to the government for changing your mind. If there was still a doubt, in any case for environmentalists, it is not necessary to wait until Saturday to withdraw them. All this, however, is not enough. Caregivers are exhausted. Most of all, he's afraid of a second wave of contamination. He therefore expects something other than applause or a one-off bonus. It has been repeated many times in this House, the health care sector and particularly nurses need good working conditions. They need to be revalued. They need to be more numerous and have good equipment. It was true before the crisis and it is all the more so today. Prime Minister, my question is simple. What deaths are you prepared to take and vote with us to respond to the legitimate demands of the care staff, of all those who dedicate their lives to saving the lives of others?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u45	Mr President, as regards the situation in hospitals and the notice of strike and the images of the dissatisfied staff of Saint-Pierre, it is true that these images were strong but the message they were carrying was just as strong. This action only reflects the distress of nurses who have been involved for months in a very difficult context. The coronavirus crisis exacerbated the difficulties that nurses had already faced on a daily basis before the crisis. We discussed these difficulties in a calm and constructive way, outside the scope of the cameras. I stress that all public expressions, including, of course, those of the members of this government, are marked by respect and empathy. The seriousness of the situation and the distress of the caregiving staff require this. In this regard, I had the opportunity to speak with the representatives of Take Care of Care on these same issues, and this dialogue helped to raise concerns on the ground and dispel some misunderstandings. We plan to continue this dialogue. I understand the distress of the care staff and the problems it faces. That's why I want an answer soon. However, I would like to point out that, according to the latest figures, Belgium remains one of the countries with the highest healthcare expenditure in the world. In line with the percentage of GDP going to health care, Belgium ranks fifth among all EU countries and ninth among all OECD countries. However, this does not prevent the re-evaluation of care professions from being a priority. This implies an upgrading of wages and attention to working conditions and the availability of protective equipment in order to be able to work in all safety. To this end, I have asked Minister De Block to start consultations with the trade unions. There was already a first meeting in front of Ministers Muylle and Clarinval this morning. That was a real meeting. I hope that these talks will allow us to offer prospects quickly and give a concrete answer to the problems. As far as proxy decisions are concerned, on the one hand, the recovery of the care staff and, on the other hand, the exercise of nursing duties by non-qualified care staff, we decided to suspend them immediately. We asked the ten parties who had given their agreement to the power of attorney decisions to remove them once and for all on Saturday. With regard to these two orders, I would like to point out that these were exceptional temporary measures, the aim of which was to be able to mobilise staff to provide reinforcements, if necessary, of teams with known levels of fatigue and the need for support. This was indeed a legal framework that ensured the continuity of the operation of hospitals and nursing homes, a framework which we could have called upon in case of necessity and only in case of necessity. I would remind those Members who are astonished and who strongly criticise the content of these decrees of special powers that, for the most part, they have been agreed upon by their party president. I do not disagree with the timing, but I would like at least to have the intellectual correction to recognize that we have validated things in our time. As I have just said, these decrees of special powers are effectively suspended immediately and the enlarged Kern will decide this Saturday on their definitive repeal. We are aware and grateful for the essential work done by medical personnel. The problems they face must be resolved quickly. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning, together with Minister Muylle and Deputy Prime Minister Clarinval, we discussed three hours with the social partners. 25 persons were physically present and 24 virtual, representatives of employers and employees from the private and public sectors. With regard to the KB on claims, it was a question of requiring doctors, nurses and other medically qualified people from sickness funds and administrative services to join hospitals and residential care centres, if there is a second wave. In the Royal Decree on Nursing Acts, people with medical training are specifically involved. That is also clearly stated and I listed them all at the questioning session earlier this week. Those people with medical education could be used to help the nurses if there aren't enough. Today, the conclusion was that there was no problem with the content of the Royal Decree. They told us the timing wasn't right. There was an incomprehension because they thought they hadn't done enough during the crisis. That's not true. This was a request from Messrs. Vervoort, Di Rupo and Nollet to organize a reinforcement for caregivers in nursing homes. Mrs Merckx, you know that there were serious problems there. There was also an appeal to the army. We have taken the measure to ensure that nurses working today in services other than hospitals or residential care centres could be called upon. If I were to lie in a rest home and people couldn't take care of me or wash me anymore, I'd prefer a nurse over a soldier to come and do that. We may be facing a second wave and we have published the Royal Decree because we were told that some nurses are very tired and have problems. The nuclear cabinet and the ten Presidents of the parties supported that power of attorney. We will make the reverse movement in the superkernkabiet next Saturday. If they have supported this measure and we have made the text on it, then they must ask, together with us, to withdraw it. I find it bizarre that some Members do not know this and that there is so much indignation about this measure. The syndicates are asking for a signal. That is the signal they want to receive on Saturday in exchange for the non-performance of the strike commitment. Commitments were also made. Those concerned know that a number of measures have been taken on the ground. The switching centres and triage centres were started, among other things, to relieve the burden of general practitioners and emergency services. There has also been an increase in the pay of home nurses. This is compensation for the purchase of protective equipment and for the additional time they must devote to each patient. There are also cohort care, the billion that has been advanced, and other measures. As soon as the alarm sounded in the Interministerial Conference, the federal government sent the army as well as hygienists and other doctors to rest homes. Doctors Without Borders and the Red Cross also helped. The syndicates have repeated that, after this turbulent period in the hospitals, they now want to start discussions. We have identified a few themes on which we will already be working. I will mention the upgrading of staff, the quality of work, solidarity at work and the combination of work and family. In 2017, I negotiated for a long time with the Minister of Employment. A new social agreement was concluded for four years. It is ten or fourteen years since a social agreement was reached. The Michel Government with you, Madam Prime Minister, as Minister for the Budget, has invested a great deal of money in this. It has been pointed out that it wishes to build on this. The aim is to make the profession more attractive for young people or for those who want to make the change. A timing will now be agreed. They are also kept informed of the decisions on Saturday. There are also a number of issues on the agenda in order of importance. For IFIC, this is a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u47	Minister, one of my questions was when a comprehensive plan for health care workers could come into being. You answered my question about the royal decrees and said that an immediate suspension had been decided, which I welcome. Let us remember, however, that this crisis caused a real wave of shock and seriously compromised our economic system. Our health care system has resisted, especially the health care workers who stood by while facing extremely difficult circumstances. We did not wait for this crisis to become aware of the difficulties faced by caregivers. Proposals were put on the table and Ms. Onkelinx had tabled an attractive plan that could not be followed due to the budget cuts that were imposed on us. Today, we propose a crisis premium, a salary increase, improved working conditions, a reduction in the workload, genuine psychological support and representation of the profession in dialogue. You seem to have made promises that we hope to see you keep. I would like the Committee on Health to take these measures as a matter of priority and as a matter of exclusivity, to analyse them, to move forward and to take the necessary decisions immediately. The nursing staff have been under the spotlight throughout the crisis, and we will do everything possible to ensure that they do not go back into the shadows.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u48	Ministers, thank you. I must remember, however, that the confidence that has been given to you by this Parliament is based solely on the need to deal with this crisis. When one of your ministers allows himself to insult the health workers who are on the front line in the face of this crisis, it is unacceptable, and you cannot stand still. However, I believe that the reshaping that you carried out earlier is far too light in view of the seriousness of the comments made. For the rest, I hear that the hedge of dishonor that took place on Saturday in Saint-Pierre ended up acting like an electroshock. Better late than never! Nevertheless, structural responses must follow. For too long, we have been facing a shortage of nurses because of extremely harsh working conditions. We are also facing a shortage of doctors, particularly because of the INAMI quotas. So here are two projects, among others, that I really invite you to invest today so that the healthcare staff doesn't feel abandoned, but also so that the young people want to embrace this career, which is fundamental. Prime Minister, I, too, made a visit this weekend. It was in a nursing home in Eghezee. I met a dedicated, combative nurse who is literally fed up with little consideration...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that the reply time is set at one minute. You're all out of time. There are no different provisions of the Rules of Procedure which I can apply, as the case may be. I have to make a rule. Try to stick to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u50	It is a real victory that the relevant royal decisions will be thrown into the trash next Saturday. You say it is a problem of timing, but I think it was really a fundamental problem, one that has to do with working conditions in the sector, which has made the care staff explain that it was enough and that something needs to change. I take this opportunity to denounce the hypocrisy of some people here. Mrs Van Camp, you stated in an article in De Standaard in October 2016: "I am pleased with the savings in healthcare." Do you think people will forget that right away? Your chairman, Mr De Wever, wanted to save another 5 billion in the health sector. And now you're trying to make us believe that you're standing up for the care staff?! Of course, more money must go to the sector, otherwise the situation there will not improve. For the rest, I want those who have turned their backs on the street and those who stand up for their rights to stand up. As far as I know, changes have only been made in Parliament and decisions withdrawn when people are on the streets and defending their rights. We will have to remain vigilant, because the government remains very vague with which it will come to terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u51	Madam Prime Minister, Madam Minister, first of all we need respect from all the members of the government. I hope that they have all heard and heard well that one has to show respect in all the statements. Secondly, there will be real consultation, better late than never. The demands have been known for a long time; I refer to the white rage. Then let us really discuss and follow actions, not just in a calendar of meetings, Mrs De Block. By the way, colleagues from the MR, I would like to point out that in relation to GDP, the European Commission, the budgetary watchdog, today launches the policy recommendation that Belgium needs to solve its problems with regard to nursing staff. Thirdly, I would remind Members of Parliament, especially the MR Group, that there is a proposal on the allocation of the healthcare staff fund 2020. Now, if you are so concerned with working conditions, with wage conditions, with the support of the nurses, then support that proposal and do not block it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u52	I do not regret, Madam Prime Minister, that I have been trying for all these years to move the lines – and I will not stop – in favour of the health sector, health care providers and patients. Don't be mistaken, even if you don't listen to me: the silent majority of caregivers share the same feeling as those who turned your back on Saturday. I give you the benefit of the doubt, given what you said today, and I ask only to believe it. However, your latest initiatives do not plead in your favour. This famous billion for hospitals, which we get out of every day, is just an advance. This is a virtual amount. There is not a single additional euro. The circular has just been sent to hospitals. The objective is simply to compensate for the loss of cash in order to be able to pay wages. No guarantee, Madam Prime Minister, was given to hospitals - to those same hospitals you visited this Saturday. I tell you frankly, eyes in your eyes: do not play with the feet of caregivers!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u53	Mr Hedebouw, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u54	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u55	Mrs. Fonck, your time has passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u56	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u57	Mrs Fonck, you no longer have the floor! It's Mr. Hedebouw's. There are rules that must be respected! (Protests by Mrs Fonck)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u58	Madam Prime Minister, Mrs De Block, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to answer all your arguments, which I did not find very heavy. But I would like to end with a lesson for all the workers in the country. I would like to address them directly here today. I have been in Parliament for six years and this is the first time I have seen it. Two royal decrees were taken by a government supported by ten parties. Because that is what this is about: Mr. Magnette (PS), Mr. Nollet (Ecolo), Mr. Bouquez (MR), Mr. Prévot (cdH) supported these two unpopular royal orders. That's what you told us. And these two royal decrees supported by ten political parties were withdrawn in one weekend! This is an important lesson for all workers: there will be a before and a after coronavirus. We have the balance of power! Class pride is again present. Use this balance of forces to remove wage increases, to remove better working conditions. This is the signal and the record of this weekend for all the workers in the country! From Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. Go for it, we can win, we'll win!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u59	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. In recent weeks, we have often been told here and in the various committees that the government was not prepared enough for a global crisis, with which no other government has ever had experience. When I hear colleagues, this is apparently a dossier in which the government was too well prepared, because a measure had been taken to ensure that at any time there was sufficient care for sick people, but this government is also being criticised. Apparently, it can never be good for some. Let us wait for this discussion and certainly continue to talk and not immediately resort to drastic measures. Surrendering is not done by turning their backs on each other, but by sitting at the table, preferably with a meter and a half in between. In this way, let us maintain and further strengthen confidence in this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u60	Mrs Van Camp, you also asked for the floor for a personal statement, so I give you 15 seconds more time for your reply because you were mentioned by name by Mrs Merckx and you would like to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u61	Mr President, I would like to start with what is really important, not with the populist whining of the other side of this hemisphere. Madam Prime Minister, what is important is facts and figures. I have another very important figure for you: every euro you invest in nursing staff and care staff earns a three-fourth return in the form of fewer complications and a shorter rest period. These are therefore sensible investments. Those figures are there, the signal from the people is there and you have received the inalienable signal from the field as well. It is time for you to respond to this. You have responded to our request to provide for increased fees for home care. You also introduced this with retroactive effect, which was very important. If you want people to look at you face-to-face and not neck-to-face on a next visit to the care sector, then seize the opportunity to do the necessary for the care staff in the care institutions in the form of concrete actions and better working conditions. Thanks to PVDA for allowing me to point this out again. I understand that in your populism you never have time to study figures and to take up studies, and that you can only go through some titles and not read the articles. Your solution to everything is to sit in people's pockets and raise taxes, including for the care staff. That is what you always ask: higher taxes, higher taxes, higher taxes, and that is what we fit for. We have asked that, as the Prime Minister pointed out, within the already very high expenditure on health care, there should be a shift in resources in the form of savings on waste...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u62	Mrs. Van Camp, you need to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u63	...such as antibiotic consumption. You're a doctor, aren't you? Do you think it is justified that there is an overconsumption, while the nurses in the care institutions are on average (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u64	Mrs. Van Camp, I make the rules here. This is not serious, I will give you 20 seconds more speaking time and you will pass one minute. You don't have a micro, so people who follow the streaming or watch Villa Politica, which is something that many people can do, don't hear. You talk here without micro, that's the most complete mutism. So stick to the rules. Mrs Taquin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u65	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, I hear very positively your answers which have met with a lot of concerns heard and relayed over the last few weeks and months - you were already sensitive to them. They are intended for health care staff and, of course, for patients, wherever they are in our country. In recent years, the work of health professionals, whether in hospital or in extramural settings, has changed considerably. He made himself more complex, too. It is essential that the continuity of care from the hospital to the home, through the crèche and the school, can be achieved with the highest possible level of quality. To do this, it is certain that this requires a thorough consideration, a financial upgrading and the framework of work of all our healthcare professionals in the hospital and the front line. Your comments are clear and encouraging. It is also clear that political responsibility is collective, from government to Parliament.In this regard, it is imperative that the implementation of the White Blouses Fund be swiftly implemented by Parliament. We are more than ever at your side, Madam Prime Minister. We will follow your next meetings with great interest. And to answer you, ladies and gentlemen, the MR will not support any text that will put even more in red hospitals or social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u66	Mr. Chair, Madam Prime Minister, thank you for hearing and understanding these demands. I also thank you for these words. It is true that a late awareness is better than no awareness at all. But these words must be followed by deeds. And I was asking for your support today because we are working with Mr Goblet and Mr Bertels on the implementation of the White Blouses fund. We are now expected in a working group. The implementation of the White Blouses fund is not the answer to everything, but it is an already enormous response for the sector because we are working in consultation with all the trade union organisations on both sides of the country. This response has been expected for many months. This is the implementation of funds for training, tutoring, for additional jobs... We'll file a text. It seems to me that Parliament has agreed to grant these funds and that it will not go back to his word. Madam Prime Minister, we expect very concrete support from you and your government on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u67	Minister, as I announced at the end of April, I would like to reiterate my appeal to you on this subject. As you know, my party and I, unlike the federal government, are very happy to keep our promises. At the end of April, I already denounced the release of so many prisoners by you, due to a lack of prison infrastructure. We have often warned you about this in the past. Nor did the lax ankle strap policy, which has become a rule rather than an exception, bring about any progress. Data also showed that these prisoners received a living wage. You replied, but it was a very lean answer. You said that a prisoner costs us an average of EUR 50,000 per year, but that these costs will of course be eliminated if they are temporarily or permanently removed from prison, which might compensate for this. You put the emphasis on "maybe." So you don't know. In Flanders, on the other hand, you are now charged. Since the corona crisis, the number of suspects sitting at home with an ankle bracelet has increased by 44%, especially the number of suspects pending an ankle bracelet trial. So those are the hotties. They are flight dangerous and therefore receive an adapted, more expensive anklet with GPS tracker. The Flemish government has ordered 150 extra aircraft. This has led to a huge increase in costs. In addition, an additional monitoring system and additional workload at the justice houses. Unfortunately, I am repeating myself, but when will you give us a clear account of this misconception? How will you repay Flanders? I would like an answer to that that is not refuted within two minutes in a debate currently taking place with other ministers in another hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u68	Mr President, it has never been so empty here and at the same time it has never been so noisy. I hope you do not include that in my speaking time. I just needed to get that out of my head.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u69	Mrs De Wit, I do not count that in your speaking time. (...) Colleagues, I ask everyone to pay attention to each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, there is, on the one hand, a letter from the Attorney General and, on the other hand, your power of attorney decision for the execution of the Corona crisis. The purpose of both the letter and the royal decree was to relieve the prisons, to drain them, to reduce movements in and out and, of course, to prevent as many infections as possible. We understand. Specifically, the influx of new detainees was postponed, penitentiary leave was extended, detainees were released early and electronic surveillance was extended. In this way, in consultation with the public prosecutors, you were very quickly able to reduce the number of prisoners below the magical limit of 10,000. So the corona crisis has de facto eliminated the overpopulation in prisons somewhat. I have already expressed my concern about this, particularly with regard to safety. In addition, the corona crisis has led to a serious increase in the number of pre-trial detentions through electronic surveillance. This falls within the competence of the Communities. Any decision taken here, at federal level, on this subject has an impact at Community level. Flemish Minister responsible, Mrs Demir, said from the start of the corona crisis that she would do everything in her power to guarantee the execution of the sentence, and she also invested extra money. It has also pointed out that capacity is, of course, not infinite, but limited, also in terms of staffing and deployment. She has done the necessary and so far she has succeeded. However, there is not as much room for manoeuvre as is sometimes hoped. Minister Demir has therefore always asked to discuss the following adjustments. On May 13th, your royal decree was renewed for the second time in a row for a month. In fact, there has not really been any consultation with the Communities on this issue. That extension also happened not in public, but fairly quietly. We also understand now that it is your intention to use as much as possible electronic surveillance as possible even after the corona crisis, including for pre-trial detentions. The deadlines are short. For the Communities, it is not clear that additional capacity and additional budgets should be provided in the short term. There are waiting lists in Wallonia today. Flanders has been able to avoid waiting lists for the time being, but that is no longer sustainable. Minister, when are you planning to return to normal punishment, what is your exit strategy from this crisis? Will more be devoted to mass testing, including in prisons, rather than simply emptying the prisons? Would you please consult formally with the Communities in future, rather than merely putting them on the spot by de facto passing on a federal problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u71	Mr President, I note that there is nothing wrong with the micro, so I hurry. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying that I assume that these questions arise from the fact that I think that jurisdiction in the area of justice homes and prisons is not so well distributed in our country. I would have expected the support of your two parties for such a comment on my part, and I would have expected applause on the benches, Mrs Bury, Mrs De Wit. It is very difficult to have an anklet policy in the Community and at the same time to have a Minister of Justice and then independent judges who decide who gets an anklet, because I do not decide that, just to be clear. I would like to reassure you about the figures, because if they are still listening without micro......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u72	No, it is not, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u73	There are 4,000 temporarily attached in our country, 4,000 out of 10,000 prisoners. During the corona crisis, I was able to reduce the number of attachments by over 200. This is due, among other things, to the fact that in Flanders and Brussels there are 80 more ankle bands for Flemish prisoners on 152. You like numbers, Mrs. Bury. By the way, a lot of people like numbers here, I understand. That is why I will also use one: EUR 50,000 is the cost of prisons. You say that I am not so sure and that is why I am careful; you want certainty, but in figures that is dangerous. However, I estimate that an inmate with an anklet costs EUR 5,500 per year, including his possible living allowance, which, of course, is charged to the federal government and not to the regional governments. So if there were 80 more ankle straps in Flanders, that means an extra cost for corona of 400,000 euros, for which I would like to thank the Flemish Government. My cabinet is in constant consultation with Minister Demir. Until two hours ago, it was. So we are doing our best, but let us not increase the problem. I only hope that the Flemish parties who would like to ask me about ankle ties will see an opportunity in this to make our powers even more homogeneous in a subsequent state reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u74	Minister, you say EUR 5 500. We still need a new monitoring system, justice houses, additional workload, additional staff. I'm not so sure you've already calculated all that. I repeat, I will continue to follow the case with you. I will continue to ask these questions here if I find that the picture is wrong. It is quite clear that you have more experience in putting on blinders than in masks, as shown by a well-known video. A little sense of humor, too. No one is served by this lax policy. I have not heard a clear picture of the cost here today, and I will continue to interperate you on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. You will not be surprised that the N-VA Group is in favour of homogeneous packages of competence. Nor will you be surprised that the N-VA Group did not support the previous federal agreement, just because of its fragmentation. I am glad that you agree with that, but you will be best advised by those colleagues who did. It has indeed gone to Flanders, but without the corresponding large budgets today. Now, of course, Flanders is confronted with this. However, Mrs Demir has taken the necessary initiatives and indeed provided the additional capacity. That extra capacity should have been there by now. You also know what problems her predecessor, who you know, has had in purchasing and increasing the capacity of ankle tyres. I didn't hear you answer my question about your exit strategy. After all, I cannot imagine that it will only be about the ankle bracelets. You also released people early and extended penitentiary leave. Of course, that can't last. You will also need a plan of action there. Punishment must in any case continue. That is essential for our safety. Justice remains at the heart of our society. That is what needs to be done. If you want to keep emptying the prisons to deal with the overpopulation, you know what the N-VA group thinks. You must not adjust the number of prisoners to the capacity, but you must adapt the capacity to the number of prisoners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u76	Minister, summer is in the country, and then traditionally the deadline for the declaration of personal income tax comes, a task for all Belgians. The paper declaration must be made by 30 June and for the digital declaration it is 16 July. It is already quite a job to make the report anyway, and the whole corona state is now raising some additional questions. After all, a good system of guidance was set up by the FPS Finance Services. They had about 620,000 contacts with taxpayers to fill out the tax bill together. This was complemented by hundreds of civil society volunteers and organisations who helped fill in, serving people who really need help. Now the situation is different, because corona limits physical contacts. However, a system of telephone arrangements has been set up for the guidance of the people who have received a paper report. However, that raises a few questions. First of all, what number should the people who make digital reports call to be helped? Secondly, we often hear that it is very difficult to reach the given songs. One constantly gets the message that the capacity of the contact centre is limited, so that people cannot be helped. Thirdly, I also hear from other mayors that the municipal authorities are now increasingly being questioned by people who want help with the tax return. Of course, that is not a good thing, because there is a danger that people will not be helped or that incorrect reports will be made. So, Minister, I have a few questions. First of all, what is the cause of the telephone problems? Secondly, are there any additional measures planned? Thirdly, do you intend to postpone the tax return?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u77	Thank you, Mr Matheï, for your question. This is indeed the moment when the tax returns put pressure on the FPS Finance. You say a tax return is quite a job. Today this is not the case for 60% of taxpayers, because 60% gets a proposal for a simplified declaration. That's 730,000 more people than last year. For those people it is no longer a job; one simply has to check that what is written is correct. Then that's the end of the story. Year after year, we are taking steps forward in this respect. However, there are also people who need help with their declaration. In the past, this assistance was physically offered. I can't do that anymore this year. The FPS Finance has developed another solution based on a call centre. There is still one level of uncertainty, namely to which number one should call. The envelope has that number on it. That's not the same as the general number of the FPS Treasury. Apparently a lot of people call that general number, so there's a lack of capacity there. I have asked the FPS Finance to ensure that capacity is increased, even if that is not actually the number to be called. As a taxable person one is entitled to a service which is adequate, but as far as I have been able to request it, there is no problem with that specific number for the declaration. You're requesting a postponement of the dates for the declaration. I am not in favour of that. I have already indicated this in committee. If those dates were to be shifted, that would mean that the collection and reimbursement would also shift over time. I do not think that is a good thing. I believe that we should keep maximum dates of declaration. I agree with you, call centers must have the right capacity. We also need to make sure that people call the appropriate number.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is a good evolution that many declarations have already been filled in in advance. Even so, it remains the task of the taxpayer to verify that this has been correctly completed. That's where questions arise. Usually this is a digital declaration and in the e-mail they receive, the specific number is not mentioned. One automatically arrives at the general number. That's what I wanted to charge, because there's still some communication in order. In addition, I would like to call for a postponement of the declaration, if necessary, in the coming weeks, after some waiting. That could be a solution for certain people to have a little more time. Thus one also has a little more time to help all those people, both your services and others who have been doing that day in and day out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u79	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u80	You have received an amended draft agenda for today's meeting. You have received an amended draft agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u81	Mr President, I have two questions. I have a question about the agenda, but first there is another question. For the sake of clarity, I strongly support your difficult task of keeping everyone within the speaking time allotted to him or her. Let there be no misunderstanding about that. A straight-line treatment is also the only treatment that can ensure that everyone can behave correctly. I would like to ask a purely informative question. Article 55 of the Rules of Procedure provides that a personal event may be responded to for a maximum of five minutes. Is Article 55 also applicable when a personal fact arises in the event of a topical question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u82	In my opinion, that is not the case. That is why I informed the Member concerned that her name had been quoted and that I would give her a little more time than one minute in reply. Anyone who thinks that six minutes can be made in this way makes an improper application of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u83	Mr President, you are right when it comes to extending her speaking time. If it is a question of applying Article 55, I think she was entitled to a five-minute reply. That is why I asked my question, so that this misunderstanding will not happen again in the future. Is it your opinion that Article 55 applies when a personal event occurs during a topical question or does Rule 55 lapse in that case? If you say that such a fact does not give any reason to extend your own speaking time, I can live with that. My question was whether Article 55 would apply in that case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u84	Mr De Roover, I repeat what I have just said, namely that the application of a Rule of Procedure is hereby repealed. If I allow the Member of Parliament concerned, whose name has been mentioned, to extend her reply somewhat and grant her a little more than one minute, then the Member of Parliament should not then come forward with the argument that it could have used a five-minute speaking time on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. Where appropriate, the member shall ask for those five minutes, because his name has been quoted. All Members will think carefully before they ever quote a name. In that case, we will not have Question Time but a question five hours. In other words, I felt that there was an tacit agreement between the Member concerned and myself in one and a half minutes instead of one minute's reply. However, she went over that speaking time and prepared her whole reply. I also wonder how a reply can be prepared. We do not know the Minister's answer, but we can already prepare a reply. The member wanted to add something to her reply. However, it seems to me that a six-minute speaking time is due to such an addition, which may be useful, but that does not apply to me. If you like, we can have that discussion at the Conference of Presidents. However, all agreements must be interpreted in good faith.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u85	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your reply. I understand, and I conclude from that that she should have called in Article 55? It would then have received the five minutes to which it had the right of regulation, outside the scope of the reply. You're absolutely right. That is why I would like to draw attention to this. If we are all aware of this, it will require everyone to be careful when calling a colleague. I think it would be good for everyone to define the rules of the game clearly and clearly. I take it from your answer that the explicit reference to the article in question does indeed give five minutes of reply time. I think this is the correct interpretation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u86	There are other articles that we will call in later on when it comes to the agenda. I'll be strict about that, too. Actually, the rules are pretty clear. If you let that go for two or three weeks, you go on and on. One gives one finger and one takes an arm. I am sorry to have to say this in a Parliament. One prepares replies from one and a half minutes to two minutes. A close parliamentary debate must be possible both for Members of Parliament and for members of the government within the time limit laid down. I also think it's a bit infantile, but apparently there's no other way to enforce it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u87	Mr President, I propose that we discuss this at the Conference of Presidents. I always understood that Question Time was 2-2-1. If we apply the Rules of Procedure, this means that there will be five minutes for each polemic. In that case, I've calculated how many minutes have been taken from me for the last six years. Each time the name 'Hedebouw' was mentioned during Question Time, I could have had five minutes more speaking time. All in all, we speak in hundreds of minutes! I propose that we hold a political debate on this at the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u88	Mr Hedebouw, I intend to speak your name as little as possible. I obviously agree to discuss any remarks on the agenda in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u89	Mr President, as far as the agenda is concerned, yesterday we had an extremely interesting Finance Committee with high-quality exchanges, after which it was unanimously agreed that the draft law on various tax provisions should be placed on the agenda of the plenary this afternoon. The chairman of the committee made it known. Group leaders were present. I expected things to happen spontaneously, or even at your initiative, because the committee secretariat was mandated by the committee chair to contact your services. Therefore, there is likely to have been an oblivion. Or another explanation, whatever. However, the question now arises as to whether it is not appropriate, on the initiative of Parliament, which is sovereign, to put this item on the agenda in so far as there was unanimity in this respect in yesterday's committee. I repeat that Mrs Reuter, chairman of the committee, has signed this agreement. I would therefore simply ask you to act on my request to include this item on the agenda, because certain provisions must be able to enter into force quickly in the interests of certain economic agents, whether they are businesses or households, by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u90	Mr Laaouej, you know my views on these issues. I think that there is an increasing abuse of certain provisions, of the consensus that is taking place in the committees. It is not for the committees to set the agenda for plenary sittings, but for the Conference of Presidents, which took place on Monday, when the committee you are talking about met yesterday. So there's no relationship. Similarly, you say that the experts agree that this item should be placed on the agenda. If you are requesting a change to the calendar, you must apply section 17. Your request must be supported by eight members and registration is done either at my initiative or at the request of the government or through a vote of Parliament. We shall therefore vote. Such a mood doesn't happen when you sit and get up. The Rules of Procedure state very clearly that a vote must be taken. I do not know whether Parliament is in a position to vote on this at the moment. You are risking the sitting being suspended for a number of hours and the rest of the agenda being cancelled. I'll give you a final piece of information. Mr. De Croo was open-minded and told us that he was no longer available at 6:00 p.m. He left. Even if a third of the members of the Chamber were to vote on the change to the agenda, I do not intend at all to put those other points on which there was consensus back. Then the design comes with various provisions as the last one, if any. The Minister is not available. I do not know what Parliament will do. There's room for another vote to make progress after 6:00 p.m. Think before you start. We're in difficult circumstances. Where is it written that what is decided in committee meetings on Tuesday or Wednesday is to be discussed in plenary on Thursday, whereas of the 150 Members no one, except the committee members, really knows what it is about, since the written report is obviously not available at 24 hours? The Minister has informally told me that he is not a asking party. I don't know if that has anything to do with his inability to be here after 6:00. It could be perfect for him next week, too. I'm not the government spokesman, but I'll report what he said. If your request is supported by eight members, we can hold a debate that may take some time. In this case, the Chamber must rule. One third of the members must indeed vote on a motion which must be introduced in writing. We will therefore have a vote and all other items on the agenda remain outstanding. You're informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u91	Mr President, I know from Mr De Croo that there is no particular urgency for him to deal with this text. I agree with what you have said and what you have repeated in many Conferences of Presidents the previous weeks: the sudden addition of items to the agenda that were not decided at a Conference of Presidents, but in a committee, makes it impossible for Members to prepare for the agenda of a plenary session. After all, we are looking at timing and preparation: who should speak and who should be present? Our Finance Commissioner was just present, but has now left. In time it is no longer organizeable. I'm completely on your line. At a Conference of Presidents, when dossiers are ready and reports are available, points can be raised. We should not always add points at the last minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u92	Mr President, first and foremost, we are dealing with a very important draft law which includes a number of tax measures on tax shelters, income taxes, or how we will treat gifts in kind such as mouth masks fiscally. It was repeatedly said that this was urgent, including by the Minister. Mr President, I share your view that we must be careful about the concept of urgency, but I note that the cabinet itself has repeatedly put this forward. We discussed this and approved it in committee on 6 May. At the time, my group wanted to ask for a second reading of the text, but that was absolutely not allowed, the draft had to and it would definitely go to plenary last week. Last week in plenary it was postponed by one week to this week. Apparently, that was possible. Today I hear that the draft is again not on the agenda and would be postponed for another week. The reasoning of urgency is justified, but it must be pursued consistently and a draft must be dealt with consistently from the outset. Something that would be dealt with in a week will now take a month. Then a response to Mr Lachaert, who says that we need to be prepared for the agenda. Actually, we were and are. Yesterday's committee report states that there was a unanimous agreement on an oral report. Everyone assumed that this would be on the agenda today. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, Mr President, you are quite right to refer to a number of articles which allow the agenda of the plenary to be amended. A more pragmatic solution is also possible by calling on the Conference of Presidents to amend the agenda. In these corona times, it may perhaps be a quicker way to allow this debate to take place without heavy procedures, in a pragmatic way, for which I believe we are all open. In conclusion, I think it is particularly necessary to have clarity on the agenda: is the draft on it or not? It's best to get this cleared up so everyone can organize themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, I could have a long debate on this, but I would like to keep it limited. Mr Loones, I need a written motion for a change in the agenda. I shall vote on this motion, which means that everyone must mobilise their troops to do so. Think before you start. There's no report. Apparently, a written report has only become a detail for many colleagues. The Minister responsible is not available either. A few hours ago, the Minister informed each of you that he was only at Parliament's disposal until 18.00. He's not here right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u94	Mr President, I am asking for a suspension of the sitting and a meeting of the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u95	I would point out that in the Conference of Presidents on Monday there was no consensus on this. If you ask for a suspension of the session, we'll arrange it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u96	Mr President, in the Committee on Finance, Mr. De Croo did not object when Mrs Reuter got everyone's agreement to enter the item. He had ample opportunity to give his opinion and say that it could wait until next week. That was not the case. Everyone organized to debate today. I would remind you that this is an issue that could or should have happened in plenary last week. I ask for a suspension and the meeting of the Conference of Presidents to be explained by group leaders because I really think there is a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u97	I shall suspend the sitting and convene the Conference of Presidents in the Erasmus room. The meeting was suspended. The meeting is adjourned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u98	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the outcome of the debate at the Conference of Presidents. By way of exception, the Conference, by consensus, agreed to the addition to the agenda of the draft law on various tax provisions, No. 1174, provided the Minister can be present. The Minister had announced that he would be unavailable, but he has now announced that he will come here as soon as the nuclear cabinet meeting is over. As a matter of principle, I would like to reiterate the agreement of the Conference. We would be able to deal with this draft within a period of 60 minutes at about 6 p.m. All the groups agreed to adjust their speaking time accordingly. Then I have a second item on the agenda; after that I would really like to start discussing that agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u100	Mr De Roover, I understand that you wish to speak on the transmission to the Council of State of legislative proposal No. 1212 by Mrs Kitir suspending the period of notice of dismissal given before or during the period of temporary suspension of the implementation of the contract of employment for reasons of force majeure following the COVID-19 crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u101	I am indeed asking for the dispatch to the Council of State for legislative proposal No. 1212 by Mr Kitir.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u102	Mr President, I support that question. I ask for the dispatch to the Council of State for the whole and our amendments. We are dealing with our amendments, but MR and N-VA may have the same question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u103	Flemish Interest and CD&V also support that question, I see. There will be more than 50 members.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u104	Mr President, I regret that another delay manoeuvre is being used. There are a lot of people at the moment who are in a difficult situation, who have lost their jobs, who are not entitled to a cancellation fee due to a loophole in the law. I understand that everyone agrees with the philosophy. It is a pity, however, that we cannot work together constructively and can approve this already today. However, if some people today choose to slow it down again and leave so many people in uncertainty, that is their responsibility. I would ask, since there is clearly a majority for the dispatch to the Council of State, that an opinion be requested from the Council of State within five days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u105	Mr De Roover, you have heard Mrs Kitir. An opinion within five days. This is then necessarily limited to checking the ground conditions and the like. Can I put the request to the Council of State in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u106	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Mathieu Bihet, Isabelle Galant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u107	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u108	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u109	Dear colleague, you are also included as a speaker in the general debate. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u110	Mr President, I shall speak briefly on this important text. We talked about it in the Committee on the Economy. It is aimed at the self-employed, who, as we know, are experiencing an extremely complicated situation as a result of the pandemic that is turning into an economic crisis. We have supported and welcomed a range of measures that have been put in place. We believe that more, including financial resources, will be needed in the context of the redeployment of our economy. Our political priority is the basic economic fabric, which is our main economic fabric in Belgium, regardless of the Region. This is for the self-employed. It is a question of deferring the payment of their contributions. This support seems obvious to us in a panel of measures, even if it cannot be the only one, but it is not. We will come back with other proposals in this area. We fully support what is proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on a subject much more consensual than the previous ones, this bill aims to postpone the deadline for the payment of the contribution for self-employed persons in company, and to post it from 30 June to 31 October, simply to allow the self-employed to fully mobilise their cash for economic recovery. We hope that it will be as fast as possible. These are amounts which I will not mention here, but which are around 300 euros or 800 euros depending on the size of the company. It is important to know that the total of these contributions amounts to EUR 200 million. It is a considerable postponement that we hope will put some balm at the heart of these companies, which will retain their cash flow. We have received a positive opinion from the organisations representing the independents on this proposal. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the entire government and especially Minister Ducrame for the various measures that have been taken for the self-employed. This measure complements the puzzle. It has been adopted unanimously in committee and we hope that it will be the same here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the PVDA will also support this proposal, because many small self-employed people are currently struggling. The aim of the proposal is to give them some breathing space by postponing payment of the company's contribution until October, without risking being sanctioned. A lot of measures have already been taken with regard to the postponement of payment, including taxes, measures which we certainly support. On the other hand, we are in favour of supporting the small self-employed, for which the president of CD&V has also argued in a tweet. For example, we will put forward a proposal for a fund to be set up with contributions from the Internet giants, who currently benefit greatly from the crisis with e-commerce, while the small self-employed suffer. We propose to levy a tax on their current usury profits. For example, Jeff Bezos of Amazon has gained 24 billion dollars in recent months. We therefore believe that it is normal that the large groups and multinationals, the big players using high-tech tax systems, who, unlike small self-employed persons, have fiscalists and lawyers at their disposal, should be called upon to contribute to the fund so that we can help the self-employed. Once again, we will certainly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u113	Mr. Speaker, I would like to thank the House for having activated this measure so quickly. This is important, as the various stakeholders have indicated. A small point, compared to the PTB colleagues. You must know that, as a liberal minister, I am obviously in favour of the taxation of these giants of the digital economy. I believe that they must contribute to this common wealth. They must be aligned with taxation in the countries in which they sell their products. I believe that these taxes must go back to the whole of our society, and of course to the small independents, to the medium-sized independents, but to the whole of Belgian society, because, indeed, they are getting richer thanks to all the Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u114	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u115	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1178/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1178/1) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u116	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u117	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Wouter De Vriendt, Simon Moutquin, Jessika Soors, Samuel Cogolati, Evita Willaert, Séverine de Laveleye, Barbara Creemers, Cécile Thibaut, Zakia Khattabi, Hervé Rigot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u118	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1177/6) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1177/6) The title has been changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the relocation of vulnerable migrants from the Greek islands camps". The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the relocation of vulnerable migrants from the camps on the Greek islands." The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u119	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u120	Mr President, in the Committee on External Relations, we have tried to reach out to our colleagues from Ecolo-Green, especially as regards young people. We therefore tabled constructive amendments calling for a thorough screening, specialized reception at the external border and priority for reunification with parents in the safe countries, elements which in our view could only contribute to strengthening the resolution. We even gave our word that, if our amendments were adopted, we could join in a one-off take-over of a number of unaccompanied minor refugees to relieve our Greek colleagues in the light of the challenges of COOVID-19. Unfortunately, our offer was rejected. The Ecolo-Green resolution is too quickly summarised as a simple question to the government to take over unaccompanied minors. If that were the case, the government's decision to receive 18 minors from Greek camps would already be without object. The government is also still being asked to take over a fair number of older and weaker people and to contribute to achieving a structural solution to migration problems. We understand the Ecolo-Green colleagues very well. They want to show solidarity with European countries such as Greece and deliver people from a precarious situation. We can agree on the objective. Although we will never have the pretence to call ourselves the coalition of humanity, human rights and children's rights are also high on the agenda for the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u121	We too are in favour of strong solidarity with Greece, which has been under enormous pressure over the last few months, partly due to the blackmail of the Turkish President. We too would like to support a Member State that is monitoring our European borders. It is precisely for this reason that we would advise against joining a resolution that is contrary to what we consider to be the protection of minors and which actually legitimizes illegal access to the European Union. With the signal to forward them and that Europe will solve them, President Erdogan and the smugglers of human beings will be very happy. The minors involved are often victims of their parents' decisions to send them on that dangerous journey. Today they are once again told that there are options for entering Europe. Many will try to use it. Such a policy encourages human tragedies and will increase the pressure on the Greek border. It is irresponsible from the perspective of children's rights and irresponsible as a loyal partner. Perhaps that is why 17 EU Member States did not participate in relocation following the European Commission's call. We would therefore ask Members to stand together with Greece in protecting the European external borders and to show that Europe is not succumbing to Turkish blackmail and that, in order to reduce the dangers of COVID-19 in the overcrowded camps, it is also possible to return to safe countries of origin. We want Members to know that we are tabling our own resolution to support the Greek Government and the people. We want a clear stand against Erdogan, namely that refugees and migrants should never be used as blackmail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u122	Mr President, in view of the addition to the agenda and the many interruptions, I shall try to keep it rather concise. After all, the most important thing has happened. The Committee on External Relations adopted the proposal for a resolution. Otherwise this would not be on the agenda. This happened on 6 May and 48 hours later, the first result was the announcement by the Minister responsible, Mrs De Block, that our country would finally transfer a number of children to Belgium and thus contribute to the care that is needed. I would like to thank Minister De Block for that, and also the minority government for having respected the question of the Chamber. Eighteen children, then one sometimes gets the question: is that it? Shouldn't it be there anymore? For us there could be more, but I want to focus on the positive, on the fact that this is a breakthrough and that this was unthinkable a few months and weeks ago. How come the spirits have matured? I believe that the debate that we have had in this House and which has also been held outside the media, and the many testimonies that civil society has given us about the situation in the camps, have really helped to achieve a fairly broad majority in this Chamber for this proposal and to make that effort, not only outside Parliament, but also in Parliament. I would like to thank colleagues from the various parties, such as sp.a, PS, MR, Open Vld, CD&V and PVDA, for their active participation in this resolution. After all, our original text has been modified. There is no shame at all in admitting that it is just proof that parliamentary consultation behind the scenes and discussions between colleagues can improve a text and lead to a strong compromise and therefore an agreement. Why have we tabled this proposal? The conditions in those camps, especially for children without parents, are terrible. We are all human beings and it is not a bad thing that politics is sometimes driven by humanity and a reflex to show solidarity and do something. I would like to point out a number of figures and testimonies. In the Greek hotspots there are 40,000 to 42,000 refugees and migrants together. For example, in the refugee camp Moria, more than 21,000 people are packed together in a few square kilometres, including children without parents. On some islands, such as Kos, Samos, Leros and Chios, there is a great lack of plumbing, food, clean water and medical care. A witness lives in a container in Moria and declares that people stand in line for hours to eat, to go to the toilet or to take a shower. It is simply impossible to live with a distance rule there. Another witness, a mother, says she hasn't been able to wash her daughter, a baby, for a week because there's just no water. We really must also point out the dangerous situation for teenagers in these camps, both boys and girls from 10 to 14 years old. They are really left to their own devices. Often they don't have a family. They have to beg for a place to sleep with another family, in another tent, if there are already sleeping places. They're afraid of getting beat up. There is also sexual violence. There are 1,600 children, often young, without parents. The conclusion is therefore not so difficult. The conclusion is simply that we cannot leave these children to their fate and that the refugee camp is no place for children. Mrs. Safai, there are refugees in the world. They were there, they're there, and unfortunately they'll probably always be there. I think it is the most normal thing in the world for a country like Belgium to take responsibility and show solidarity, especially when it comes to such vulnerable profiles. You say that you want to table a resolution to support Greece. Well, Greece itself is asking for refugees and children without parents to be admitted to other European countries. We therefore support Greece with our resolution. We cannot leave a country such as Greece, and also a country such as Italy, to its fate, because those countries cannot do it alone. They are faced with a certain influx, of course, and the refugee camps there are overcrowded. The asylum procedures are not actually working properly anymore. A country like Greece is therefore asking for these children to be admitted by as many other European countries as possible. If you want to support Greece, support our resolution, because it will help Greece. It is also important to do this in diplomatic terms, ladies and gentlemen. Belgium really started losing its plumes. There is an action plan from the European Commission which dates back to 4 March, and if we want to be a good student of the European class and to be a model in European integration, it is difficult to stand aside for weeks or months. Then it is difficult to be credible in wanting to lecture other European countries, countries that are less close to European solidarity and European cooperation. Belgium was in a somewhat strange position for a while. It is therefore a good thing that this resolution and the decision of the federal government provide a solution on that point. This is an act of solidarity and humanity for us. At the same time, this is also a very realistic and feasible proposal. We all know the numbers. This has nothing to do with the impression sometimes created by a number of parties that it would open up the borders, that this would create a suction effect, and so on. This is a realistic and feasible proposal. Already it is clear that in our country there will be shelters for those 18 children without parents. The organisations are ready, the reception and orientation centre of Fedasil is ready. The necessary space is there, the necessary places are there. Foster homes are here. The organisations have already been contacted, and they have already said publicly that there is no problem. It is a pity that the N-VA does not want to support the texts. I really want to say this here in so many words. However, I made the appeal in the Committee on External Relations. The problem with your amendments, Mrs Safai, is that they completely undermine the text and in fact ignore what we want to do, namely to take care of those children. Why? For example, you attach the following condition. Let me quote from your Amendment No. 10: "subject to their possession of refugee status'. That's when nothing happens. After all, the problem in Greece is that asylum procedures are very often ineffective. They take a long time and a lot of people don't have access to those procedures when they're in the hotspots. They therefore do not have refugee status. If your proposal says that you want to take care of the children on condition that they have refugee status, then you say: leave them there, we leave them to their fate, we let them suffocate. That is not the choice we have made with this text. Your proposals are not compatible with what a large majority in this Chamber has wanted to do. I would like to thank colleagues for their support for our text and for the good negotiations and discussions we have had on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to join my colleague Wouter De Vriendt in thanking the members with whom we have been able to discuss the text under consideration in a spirit that has sometimes exceeded our different sensitivities on the migration issue. Since the beginning of my term of office, I have been haunted by a sentence in my work as a parliamentarian. This sentence comes from the report by Médecins sans frontières: "Children are trying to put an end to their lives in the refugee camps on the Greek islands." I'm saying "children." It is this sentence that must mobilise us in our action, regardless of our political colour. It shows the failure of European migration policy, a failure that may be collective. She warns us that 42,000 people live in these refugee camps, while facilities are planned for 6,000 people. This overcrowding has consequences, in particular, for children. As my colleague pointed out, according to the report by Médecins sans frontières, one third of the children living in these camps are self-harming. Many children stop feeding and communicating. I am not talking about the acts of violence that exist in these camps and the sexual assaults that children may be subjected to. With regard to the health issue, as has already been mentioned, there is one water point for 1,500 people. These water points are very rarely equipped, for example, with soap. Local hospitals are reserved for the inhabitants of the Greek islands. There's a lack of medication, a lack of care, a lack of doctors. In doing so, the possibility of a spread of the pandemic in these camps makes the back cold. This situation is not the result of a natural disaster. It is the consequence of policies. It is the result of links with the Erdogan regime; I agree here with my colleague Mrs Safai. It is the result of partnerships with Libyan coastguards that do not respect international law. But it also results from the fact that the front-line countries and their people have been allowed to cope with the asylum applications made at the entrance to the Schengen area. I am thinking of Italy and, of course, Greece. NGOs have been alerting us for years and drawing our attention to the impossible life in refugee camps. Today, the evacuation of these camps has become a health emergency. This is a responsibility of the European Union and its Member States. The plan that Belgium is about to join concerns 1,600 unaccompanied minors who are being relocated to Bulgaria, Portugal, Luxembourg, Germany, Finland. It was essential to join this initiative to express our solidarity. However, our motion for a resolution does not only address this aspect, because it deals with other, equally fundamental, issues. We encourage the government – in particular Minister De Block – to take the same initiative and lead a European reflection on other vulnerable people. We know that many older people are on these islands and that VOCID-19 is likely to contaminate many of them. We also stress the need for a European mechanism. As such, I invite you to consult the European Greens' plan for a migration reform at this scale, which is based on a solidarity-based distribution by means of positive incentives to encourage voluntary reception. Environmentalists will continue to advocate in all assemblies where this will be essential for a migration policy based on humanity, solidarity and respect for human rights. My group is pleased that the Minister has responded to the first part of the proposal. This is a step in the right direction. We encourage the federal government, in consultation with the federated entities, to enhance this solidarity to the extent of our capabilities, as the text points out. Let us be careful: this initiative is illustrated not only through the journey of these children to Belgium, but also through their follow-up. In collaboration with actors on the ground and NGOs, it will be necessary to remain attentive to the psychological and social follow-up of these children, who – as we know – will arrive in a catastrophic state, hoping at last to find a better life. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote Jean Ziegler, former rapporteur of the United Nations, who concludes with these words his terrible account, Lesbos, the shame of Europe: "The European Union is a democratic construction. There is no impotence of principle in democracy. We citizens hold the power of shame. And it is up to us to reverse the balance of power and oppose the strategy of fear that reduces Europe's moral foundations." Some have in fact spoken of "coalition of humanity". I'm not pretending to call us that way. To be quite honest, I believe that it has been too long since our Europe was able to live up to its humanity. On the other hand, I am sure that this coalition is the one on the right side of history – as has already been said in this House – the one that goes in the right direction, the one that opposes the policy of fear and that assumes our idea of solidarity. Once again, I thank my colleagues for participating in the drafting of this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 42 000 men, women and children are now in camps which can only receive 6 000 in more or less decent conditions. Among these men and women, there are 1,600 children, unaccompanied minors, thus without a parent. An alarm cry was launched by Greece a long time ago. I met again in early March the Greek ambassador who said to me: "If we continue in this direction, we are going towards a real cataclysm." NGOs, international associations, Amnesty and so many others have also said that this cannot last: "Open your eyes now, if not tomorrow, it will indeed be a cataclysm for all these men, women and especially these children!" The need for action is there now. Europe has given a signal. She made a commitment. Many European countries have joined this commitment, including Belgium recently. I would also like to join our colleagues in pointing out that Mrs De Block is committed to this, and we thank her for that. I thank Ecolo-Groen for bringing this text to committee, a text that was necessary as it was also necessary to show that, yes, we are the nose in the handlebar to fight against this terrible demon that is the VOCID-19, but we must not lose sight of all the other battles that must be waged with courage and determination. We must not lose sight of the fact that pain and suffering are also present elsewhere, in other contexts. Thank you to them for giving life to this text, for giving life to this action. Thank you to them for allowing me to join this so essential fight today! Thank you also to our colleagues in the Committee on External Relations who have had a constructive, positive reflection and approach and who have sought with us today to be able to adopt a balanced, respectful, fair, legal and supportive resolution. Thank you to them for seeing in this action, a global fight and an important issue! I also want to tell you that, yes, of course, I expected Mrs Safai's remarks. Yes, we are experiencing a crisis of reception in Belgium. It's a fact. We can't deny it. Yes, we are also living in Belgium, in a more general way, a terrible crisis that affects all our fellow citizens. This crisis will have long-term consequences, socially, economically and at all levels. Yes, it is true, we are in a complex international context. But more than ever, Belgium must be united. Solidarity with its European partners. We are the mother of Europe. We must demonstrate this by our action and not simply by applause. We must act. We must reach out to Greece immediately. We must also stand in solidarity with those men, women and children who are in the camps, and especially in this case, with those some 1,600 unworked children. Belgium must do so. This solidarity cannot fall behind difficult situations that we Belgians and fellow citizens are going through today. This solidarity is reaching out. To hold hands is not just to do it when you know full employment, idleness, happiness and luck. This solidarity is even more true when, at some point, it costs us, it is difficult for us. It is to add a blanket to his table when one already has difficulties in providing for one's own needs. It is solidarity and true justice. Mrs. Safai, you have indicated that you do not wish to use children as hostages. Good. But today, they're hostages. They are hostage to international policies, European policies. They are the instruments of a few strategies to which we cannot be linked. These children are not currencies of exchange. Nor can these children be considered a danger, an air call for new migrants. These children are in danger now. They are children to whom we offer, if we do not act, as a playground, either a battlefield, or a camp in unsanitary conditions where they cannot live, where they may not even be able to survive. Today, more than ever, Belgium must be united. Let's hold hands. Let us not lose sight, please, that the greatest motto today, in these situations, rather than opposing us, is certainly the motto of our country! More than ever, union must be a force!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u125	Recently, at the request of the Ecolo Green Group and its highly influential non-parliamentary NGO arm, the government decided to relocate what is called a fair proportion of the so-called unaccompanied minor migrants from Greece. Throughout the debate that preceded this, reference was made to the fate of small children trapped on the Greek islands. It was already mentioned in the committee that at the beginning of March, among other things, the German Government, which had for some time stalled the boat because of the expected suction effect, decided to immediately transfer children under 14 years of age, of which the vast majority were girls. The first children have arrived in the meantime. But, and this is no surprise to the Flemish interest, besides four girls under 14 years of age, these are mainly adolescents or young adults. In this context, an EU official states in the German newspaper Die Welt: "The vast majority are older than fourteen and especially older than sixteen." So let us stop constantly talking about small children or children; reality shows otherwise. That has its reasons, too. The target group for which the whole operation has been initiated appears to be not or hardly present on the islands. We can't be naive. These so-called children, who in practice often turn out to be young men, are usually sent out by their family or clan only so that they can get a ticket to Europe in an easy way later on in the context of family reunification. As far as we are concerned, this practice is unacceptable. There is also a cultural difference between Europe and most of the countries of origin of migrants. Here one is aged 18 and over, while that measure for achieving adulthood is somewhat different in different non-Western countries. Does it therefore make the situation on the Greek islands less harrowing? No. The question remains, however, why it is always unmentioned or at least underexposed. Could it be that she doesn't really fit in with the desired imagery? Asking the question is also answering them. The supporters of relocation of unaccompanied minors also like to use the concept of solidarity with Greece, yet again ignoring a number of facts. For example, they seem to have no knowledge of Eurostat's recent figures, which I have also mentioned in committee, showing that the number of applications for asylum from unaccompanied minors in Belgium rose to 1,250 last year, or almost 500 more than in 2018, while that figure for the EU as a whole fell by 18% over the same period. In absolute figures only Germany and Greece are ahead of us. In relative figures, Belgium does even more than Germany. Those who advocate more relocations therefore in practice ask that Belgium does not take on a fair share, but rather the opposite, the unfair share. Moreover, it seems to be forgotten that relocations are already taking place on the assembly line. Every year, under the Dublin scheme, hundreds of minors, who already have relatives here, are transferred from Greece to countries in north-western Europe. Even more relevant is the fact that many migrants are self-reliant. Both from Italy and from Spain and Greece, tens of thousands of migrants have been travelling illegally to our parts of the country or have been transferred to the Greek mainland. The consequences of this spontaneous and illegal relocation are felt in this country: a high number of asylum applications and overcrowded asylum centres. I don't have to draw a picture. We experience it every day. From this point of view, the reference to solidarity with Greece is therefore quite misplaced. Moreover, we should also mention that since 2016 EUR 2.3 billion has already been released from the EU to support asylum policy on the ground, and without any result, Mr De Vriendt, I have to say that I agree with you. I repeat: no less than EUR 2.3 billion; speaking of solidarity! In fact, it is striking how those who today loudly advocate solidarity with Greece were silent when, a few weeks ago, the Turkish Government led and fired battalions of illegal immigrants besieged the Greek border and massively set sail for the Greek islands. Where was your call for solidarity when Greece groaned under that hostile siege? Speaking of a missed opportunity! For the sake of clarity, I repeat that no one denies the situation on the Greek islands. Everyone wants a solution. However, as Minister of Asylum and Migration Maggie De Block recently stated, transferring even more migrants to Northwest Europe, the favourite final destination of most potential illegal migrants, is not a sustainable solution. What is sold here as a solution, there is none. On the contrary, if it becomes clear in the countries of origin that sending children or minors forward is in most cases the best guarantee of being able to get to the north-west of Europe easily by means of family reunification, then the overcrowding in the asylum centres and in the Greek islands will become even greater, as will the misery associated with it. It was the fear that suction effect which, among other things, prevented the Austrian Government, which is in fact made up of Christian Democrats and Greens, from participating in the new relocation initiative, as well as a number of other EU Member States. It can already be predicted that in such a case it will not be long before there will again be votes for a so-called one-off relocation, so that we can ask the question where that will end. I asked that question on behalf of my group last year, following the resolution on the so-called boat refugees. Perhaps it is not intended to end, but you should be so honest as to say so, rather than abuse the fate of children or minors in order to push through your perfide political agenda. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will conclude. Humanity and solidarity do not necessarily mean opening up immigration channels. Effective aid can also and often more efficiently be provided with local support, in this case in the Greek country. Anyone who wants a sustainable, responsible and structural solution to the situation on the Greek islands, who, as far as we are concerned, has to work on the effective repatriation from Greece of the many who are not eligible for asylum. We must put pressure on countries that refuse to take back illegal nationals, support the current Greek government in defending national borders, rather than criticising it and countering illegal migration to Europe, rather than encouraging them by such initiatives. You will not be surprised that the Flemish Interest Group will not approve the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u126	Mr President, as I explained in a Committee on External Relations on 6 May last year, the international health crisis is of great concern to us, but that is not to say that the world is no longer turning around and that the problems we were already experiencing are being minimized. Indeed, already at the end of 2019, we observed a resumption of the migration crisis – particularly in northern Iraq or Syria – which would inevitably lead to new flows. I would also like to point out that, more than ever, we must see this new crisis as an opportunity for the European Union to finally adopt responsible and harmonious policies, so that each Member State, in turn, can assume its responsibilities in this area. We know how important it is to meet the challenge in a uniform way, and I will go so far as to say that this new migration crisis is putting the European spirit at stake. To get to the bottom of this resolution, it must be noted that things are even more complicated than before, especially when we know that the famous hotspots, with an average capacity of 6,000 refugees, now host nearly 42,000. This overcapacity, which is close to 97%, is totally inconceivable! It is therefore important to talk about this and to take into account the realities of the most vulnerable, and I am pleased to have been able to contribute, through some changes, to a widely supported consensus in our committee and to strengthen the action of the minister in charge. Very quickly, on 8 May, it took the lead in relation to the resolution we will vote on, I hope, just now. It is very valuable to be able to work constructively in this Parliament, beyond certain ideological shortcuts that some are doing here on a regular basis. We welcome that. We will of course still have the opportunity to continue implementing this resolution and to continue the discussions, because, I repeat, the migration crisis will once again be at the centre of current affairs, of politics, including in our country. At that time, I would, of course, like us to be able to do this in a balanced manner, so that, within our country and also within our continent, things can be done in a satisfactory manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, the next speakers on this proposal are Mr Demon, Mrs Daems, Mr Segers and Mr M. From Smet. It's 5:51. The Conference of Presidents decided earlier to inject into our agenda, with the presence of the Minister, a draft which concerns it. Therefore, I suggest that the last speakers speak, if possible, in a sufficiently limited time to allow for the discussion of the project that has been added, since the minister must leave us at about 7:00 p.m. I propose to conclude the discussion of this text and then start the discussion of the Minister's text, as agreed, namely five minutes of speech per group, so that there can be such an exchange and the decision of the Conference of Presidents is respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am trying to be brief. So today we are discussing the motion for a resolution on the transfer of unaccompanied minors from the camps on the Greek islands. That is a good thing, because the situation on the Greek islands is particularly difficult, especially for the most vulnerable groups such as children. In the centres on the islands there is room for a few thousand asylum seekers, but in reality there are infinitely more. Often they sleep in improvised tents for lack of real shelters. Access to medical, psychological or legal guidance is extremely limited or absent. The asylum procedures haven't worked as they should for years. All this creates a hopeless situation. This applies, of course, to everyone, but especially to minors, and especially to unaccompanied minors who are staying there without a mother or father or any other family member. The corona crisis has exacerbated all this, but the situation is certainly not new, we have heard that here. We are therefore pleased that a large majority approved this resolution last week and we are even more satisfied because the government has already announced an initiative. A total of 1,600 unaccompanied minors would be transferred to different Member States. Luxembourg, Germany, France, Portugal, Finland, Lithuania, Croatia and Ireland have already indicated their willingness to engage. Belgium now joins and will accommodate 18 unaccompanied minors. The number in itself is limited, as Mr De Vriendt said. However, we must also take into account our own reception capacity. Today, the capacity utilisation rate in the shelter is very high, which is why CD&V has tabled an amendment to take this into account. That amendment was widely supported. However, we have always said that this should not be an excuse to do nothing. We are therefore satisfied with the government's initiative. Although proposals such as these are very valuable and necessary to respond to existing harrowing situations, we must insist on the need for a structural solution at European level for all asylum and migration policies. This solution must always be based on the principles of solidarity and responsibility. Only in this way can the EU avoid crises like these in the future. Of course we will support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u129	Mr President, the PVDA Group will support the Ecolo-Green resolution, because the refugee camps in Greece are overcrowded and the coronavirus is a serious threat to public health. The European response to the corona virus must also take into account the most vulnerable in our society, including war victims and people fleeing persecution or catastrophes. We already know that Greece is no longer able to cope with the situation. Mr De Vriendt and Mr Rigot have just quoted the figures. I will repeat them again, because they are incredibly poignant: 42,000 people need to be sheltered in camps that are only designed for 6,000 people. Water, medical aid, shelter and so on have been a huge problem for longer than ever since the corona crisis. An outbreak of corona in the camps would be a tragedy for campers, but also a time bomb for public health. There's no one to test those people, no one to trace contacts, no place to isolate them in case of infection. It is therefore necessary to defuse the situation there and to bring people to safety. We would therefore like to stress the need for preventive testing and isolation of vulnerable people brought here. That's what we have to do. We must not let these people choke in the camps, but we must ensure that they cannot infect each other and others. It has now been decided that 18 unaccompanied minor refugees will be taken from the Greek camps. That's definitely a start. Helping them is not only a humanitarian act, it is also the most responsible attitude in a situation where everyone's health is at stake. In the amendments and speeches made by certain colleagues today or in committee a few weeks ago, I also heard that they are concerned about the Belgian reception capacity. It goes without saying that we must have sufficient reception capacity, but it is under Mr Francken's and Mrs De Block's policies that there has been savings in reception capacity and that everything has been devoted to densely populated, collective reception places. We all know that migration varies over certain periods and there must therefore be sufficient margin for reception, even if there are fewer asylum applications. First of all, it is bizarre to support a policy that reduces reception capacity, and then to worry about the reception capacity. Only European solidarity between all Member States will prevent this, just as only European solidarity will lead to a balanced migration policy. We must move towards a strong and binding European redistribution plan, taking into account the capacity of each European Member State. The reception of unaccompanied minor refugees from the Greek camps is therefore a first step in the right direction. It must encourage us to debate how we will prevent people from fleeing in the long term. As long as our government participates in the purchase of F-35s, in order to wage war with NATO abroad, people will continue to flee to Belgium. As long as we sell weapons to other countries that stir conflicts in a region, people will continue to flee. That is why European solidarity must go hand in hand with a policy of peace so that other regions can develop peacefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u130	I invite groups that have not yet designated speakers to do so quickly, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u131	Mr President, we fully support this resolution with sp.a. The situation of unaccompanied minors on the Greek islands is appalling, hopeless. We are therefore pleased with the fact that Belgium has now taken an initiative, albeit late, to remove 18 children from that horror. We can discuss for a very long time what the ideal European migration policy should be like. However, it is clear that European migration policy is hopelessly inadequate in this respect, which means that some very radical steps must be taken. We can also point the finger at Greece, because it is clear that Greece is making serious mistakes and that reception there should be better and procedures much more effective. However, children who have been in terrible conditions on the Greek islands for far too long cannot be allowed to pay the price for all this collective failure. The question is about here and now, about saving those minors. That's actually a no-brainer. Our country was shot into action late. In the past, I have had a number of contacts with facilities that I suspected were willing to take care of and support those young people. In view of this willingness, I was surprised that the question had not been asked. Although the capacity is limited, the expertise and desire to make this a success story is certain. However, now it is more important to look to the future, to offer these eighteen young people a future. Let us now also collectively, from the field of work and politics, ensure that these young people are welcomed in the best possible way. Some say that we should have relocated many more unaccompanied minors immediately. I don't entirely agree with that. It is normal that we expect certain countries, where there are fewer asylum applications per capita, to make greater efforts at the time when there are relatively more asylum applications in Belgium. That does not mean, however, that we can stand up as a country. It is also good to start now with a relatively limited number and to ensure that the partners with their capacity and expertise can really guide this and make it a success story. In this way, this will be a success experience for all those involved, from which we can learn together to take a next step. In the meantime, let us look at what is still possible and what we can do even better. Some cities and municipalities, where I think of Leuven and Ghent, are already willing to offer a limited number of children from Greek refugee camps a future. With a lot of little bits and a shared effort, we are already coming a long way. In addition, families are willing to receive an unaccompanied minor from Greece. Let us, together with the Communities, tap into that potential of human capital in a very targeted way. Moreover, there is also potential for migrants in Belgium and refugees recognised in Belgium. Too often there is screened with the carrying capacity of the terrain. There is indeed that capacity. One should not only look residentially. That way one has the best of both worlds. There is a citizen commitment that can be framed professionally and supported at the same time. Our group will therefore support this resolution. She is convinced that citizens and politicians can not only offer a way out of this together for a number of unaccompanied minors, but that together we can make it a success story, and that is a bit more ambitious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u132	Mr President, I shall be brief on a subject that is very much at my heart. First of all, I would like to thank the colleagues at Ecolo-Groen for having built and carried this resolution. This is an issue that has been inspiring us since we had the debate on the Malta Accords and since this Europe has been content, failing anything else, to make voluntary relocation. It is gratifying that a number of countries, including Belgium, are taking care of these weakest among the weakest. I will not go back to the situation in the camps in Greece. What a failure it is today to join on a voluntary basis to make relocation, which is not compulsory and which ultimately concerns only a very small number of countries and a very small number of unaccompanied foreign minors! I would like to stress that Belgium will welcome eighteen unaccompanied foreign minors. This is a real gesture, which was not self-evident a few months ago, when we discussed relocation here the first time. By way of comparison, I would like to point out that a country like Portugal – like Belgium, which has about ten million inhabitants – has committed itself, in the same mechanism, to accommodate 500 of them. So we can do much better and we still have a margin. I hope that the adoption of this resolution – which we will support – can inspire our current and future governments for a fairer, more open and more generous migration policy that will have to make relocation one of its key elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u133	Mrs Safai, who has been mentioned several times, asks for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u134	This is very important. It's about kids and children's rights. We all know that, and we know it. But if we want to show such solidarity to these children, this is a wrong way. That's my point. Of course, everyone wants to protect those kids. But what we are also opening the door to is abuse of the Geneva Convention. It is not intended that people should just come in and let them continue to travel in order to achieve their goal. Especially when it comes to underage children. We have to protect these minors. Trust me. I'm from the other side of the world. I know these parents send them forward and abuse them to come here afterwards. Often, not always natural. But a lot of these kids fall prey to human smugglers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u135	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. No amendments were tabled or retabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u136	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mr Christian Leysen and Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, but there is no written report since this item has just been added by a decision of the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u137	Mr President, there is a voluminous report, but I will refrain from reading it so as not to break the mood.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u138	You're right. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u139	Mr President, I refer to last week's written report and my colleague is in charge of yesterday's committee's oral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to summarize the discussion on the referral back to committee of the amendments I have tabled. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 194 by Mr Steven Matheï. I should just like to swallow my substitute shame for the way in which we have to work here and deal with the staff of the Chamber, but I was able to get a brief summary. I hope to have the full report by the end of the sitting. I'm just reading the abbreviated report. The amendments tabled by Mr Christian Leysen mainly concern technical amendments which add additional corrections and clarifications to the text of the present draft law, in particular with regard to the tax shelter scheme. The main discussions during the discussion of these amendments focus on the VAT exemption granted by the European Commission for imports of goods from outside the EU, in particular mouth masks and handholds from China, and on whether such VAT exemption may also be granted for domestic supplies and intra-Community acquisitions of such goods. The N-VA considers, through its colleagues Depoorter and Loones, that this VAT exemption can indeed take place in the form of a refund of the VAT already paid to the institutions that acquired the goods. In this way, there would be no breach of current European legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u141	The N-VA Group indicated that it would table an additional amendment on this subject during the discussion of the relevant draft law in plenary. However, the Minister in question points out that the VAT exemption may cause significant fraud risks, namely that it allows for VAT carousels, and that such a scheme generates legal uncertainty without prior review by the European authorities. Moreover, the impact of the VAT rate on the total price setting of the mouth masks is relatively small, making the competitive disadvantage for Belgian and European companies rather small. Finally, this very symbolic measure will have a very limited scope, as many of the authorities and public authorities concerned are likely to have already acquired a large share of such goods, with a definitive application of VAT. A further clarification was requested on the tax exemption of commercial vouchers provided by local authorities and on the notion of "legal financial or economic needs" in the context of tax havens. The Minister replied to these questions. The commercial vouchers are indeed covered by the exemption and the additional notion of "legal financial or economic needs" was added only in respect of transactions carried out in tax havens because companies have to carry out financial transactions beyond their control, for example because of real economic activities, in a country defined as a tax haven. However, this notion is not included in the provision concerning direct participation in a company established in a tax country which is defined as a tax haven because a company always has the freedom to hold a holding in a company from a country defined as a tax haven. Finally, Mr Matheï's amendment was also discussed and adopted. This amendment concerns a technical improvement, which means that the tens of thousands of temporary unemployment benefits for the month of April must not be recalculated and the reduction in the rate of the farm levy to 15% relates to temporary unemployment benefits for the months of May and subsequent, and not for the month of April. In summary, all the amendments were adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that I think it is very special that the speaking time for discussing a draft bill on fiscal measures for our companies which are really in difficulty at the moment is reduced to five minutes per group. As a Member of this House, I regret that such an important issue has to be called off in such a short time, while we have talked about a resolution on refugee camps for over an hour. I'll give you this by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u143	Mrs Depoorter, it was your group's explicit question at the Conference of Presidents. So you should know what you want. Mr Loones and Mr De Roover were present at the Conference and were strongly asking for the discussion to be held today. I was of the opinion that we could not do that. However, they were strongly asking parties. There was also a global agreement between all the groups. If Members of the political groups who declare agreement in the Conference say the opposite here, then my clog breaks. I have to admit that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u144	Mr President, it is true that we were asking for the draft to be dealt with today. However, it remains special that speaking time is limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u145	You can address Mr De Roover and Mr Loones, they will certainly be able to help you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u146	I am addressing the President of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u147	You are addressing the group to which you belong and to which I have been able to establish the consensus in my capacity as President of Parliament. We are not playing games here, with the agreement of a closed meeting and now the opposite is being told. Mrs Depoorter, in that case the President of Parliament will point out to you that it is not correct. Mr. Loones just came in. Mr Loones, Mrs Depoorter does not think that we should deal with the draft in this way. You will probably tell her what you said at the Conference after her statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u148	Mr President, (...), to explain a draft law which our companies are waiting for and which our companies really need. During all the debates on the draft law, the N-VA Group acted in a consistent and straightforward manner and tried to defend the entire social spectrum, including the companies but also their employees, in a harmonious way. However, I note that some special decisions have been taken. One is the question of why a grocery store can sell flowers and not the florist around the corner. Another question is why the DIY store should open and an independent paint store should not sell its paint. However, we have reached a consensus on the text and, apart from our amendment, we can support the text. However, I have a remark which I have already mentioned in committee and which I will continue to support: there has been a great deal of optimism about the determination of advance payments. We assume that our companies will already have a look at whether or not they will make profits on 10 October and whether or not they will have to pay advance payments. I personally would have preferred that on December 20th. One of the hardest hit sectors is the culture sector. We all agree on that. I would therefore like to thank the Green and MR colleagues for having thought very constructively with us and for having been able to table an amendment about the tax shelter that has reached a majority, giving production houses a year's time, extending the tax shelter for one year instead of six months and extending the framework contracts for one year, because we all know that this is a seasonal sector that does not yet have a perspective. So we absolutely had to get to work on that. I therefore invite you, Minister, to disseminate the circular we have been discussing, which would regulate the tax shelter tests, the expenditure already incurred and the unclaimed funds. My colleague has already referred to the fact that my group will take initiatives in the field of catering. We are also absolutely in favour of the tax exemption from regional and local aid. What is our Amendment No? As far as 200 is concerned, I would like to explain to you our reasoning. Firstly, I would like to stress that we will support the two measures relating to medical devices that are included in the draft law. We fully agree that the rate for mouth caps and hydrogels has gone from 21% to 6%, because these products are essential in the fight against the corona crisis. I repeat my comment from the beginning of my speech. The decrease in VAT started on 4 May. Just then, the grocery stores were allowed to sell mouth masks, while the government first had the agreement with the pharmacists that they would distribute them among the citizens. In addition, many mayors had already bought mouth caps at that time and paid 21 % VAT. Just before that, our amendment seeks to provide a solution. After all, our amendment seeks to recover VAT retroactively. The draft law also provides that no VAT is to be paid if companies wish to provide medical devices and protective equipment to health care institutions, residential care centres and crèches. We are also in favour of this. In this context, too, we are proposing an amendment. After all, if a government, for example a municipal administration, receives free mouth covers from an institution, then 0 % VAT must be paid. When a local authority buys mouth covers directly from a Chinese producer to distribute to its residents, it pays 0 % VAT. However, if a local authority deliberately opts for a local company that makes mouth caps, because it is convinced that there is too much dependence on China for medical devices and pharmaceutical raw materials, it has to pay 6 % VAT. I can't explain that. It's simple math. It means that our companies are not competitive vis-à-vis the Chinese mass producers, which have taken over the whole of the production of pharmaceutical raw materials and medical devices. That is why we are sticking to our amendment. In doing so, we want to provide an answer to all the municipalities that have already bought mouth caps. We also want to encourage the local production of mouth caps. This is even one of the key points of the European recovery plan. I assume that colleagues here will support the amendment in this respect. For the rest, Mr President, we are pleased that a number of measures are being taken. We will therefore support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u149	Mr President, the last episode of our discussion is a bit special, with a bumpy course. I hope that will not overshadow the rest of the work. Ultimately, important substantive work has been done here by the Minister and also by several political groups, in a very good way. It is good that we can put an end to this today after some very good discussions in committee. Previously, we have done a good job on the bank guarantee, with points put forward by Parliament being picked up as well. Now we can do that again with the proposed bill. I am thinking in particular of two points. First and foremost, it reduces the corporate tax on workers in temporary unemployment, which is why our group is pleased that we can vote on this today. If we approve the text today, as has already been pointed out by other colleagues, that means extra oxygen for those who are struggling today, rather than getting money back from the tax authorities later. Mr Gilkinet has been calling for this measure for some time, and ultimately it has been incorporated into this draft law through an amendment tabled by red, green and other groups. That is a good thing. It's not a magic solution. As I said during Question Time, we are also experiencing a social crisis, which deserves more attention, but which is helping every bit. It is a good thing for those who are temporarily unemployed today. Secondly, the linking of conditions to state aid is now emerging in the context of the postponement of advance payments, but I hope it will remain. You have started working on the various signals and you yourself had already set out conditions in the initial draft law. Through the parliamentary discussion we have been able to add a number of conditions, which I think is a very good thing. That is an obvious matter, and I hope that we have embarked on a new era. Aid to certain companies and sectors will be needed for some time to come and I hope that we will maintain the idea that conditions can be attached to such forms of state aid. Undoubtedly, other colleagues will stress the importance of the provision that companies that work with tax havens and deliberately avoid Belgian tax are not eligible for aid. That element finally came into the draft through parliamentary work. That too was teamwork, because various groups have made proposals and you yourself have shown great openness. An amendment by Mr Vandenbroucke, supported by a number of others, ultimately produced that result. There was less attention to a similar provision, namely that companies that work with bonuses for the CEO are not eligible. That too is a very good thing. I hope that will be the beginning of a little more conditionality and reciprocity, not just in this draft law. Finally, the fact that we now have to take a number of measures does not mean that the debate on the future of our taxation is settled. On the contrary, the corona crisis is also an invitation to all of us to drop taboos and ensure greater fiscal justice. I'm looking at the chairman of the Finance Commission. I really believe that we need to tackle this matter more quickly than is the case at present. On 2 June we will discuss a number of legislative proposals from political groups. There is a bill from the sp.a. Group, signed by us, to restore the securities tax. There is a proposal from our group to ask the High Council of Finance to make a draft contribution to the crisis, to make the greatest possible contribution to these corona times. There is also a proposal from colleagues of the Labour Party. It is important that we take up these proposals. I'd like to do that in a serious way. That is why we have chosen not to submit our entire fiscal programme with all our ambitions and to add it to Minister De Croo's draft. However, we are asking for legislative work to be carried out as quickly as possible in committee and to be advised by the Council of State and by the Court of Auditors on the proposals put forward by various political groups in order to make parliamentary progress in this way. A committee meeting is scheduled for 2 June. We hope that a step can be taken. Mrs Reuter, I would remind you that our group is a party asking to hear the High Council of Finance as soon as possible about its study on the reform of our taxation. There is a great deal on the table to ensure greater fiscal justice in the short and long term. In the short term, there are a number of breakthroughs. But that doesn't satisfy our hunger. Much remains to be done in the long term. I believe that we should do this primarily in committee, on the basis of proposals, advised by the Council of State and the Court of Auditors. I am now somewhat anticipating Mr Mertens' speech on his group's amendments. I also said this in committee: we are also asking for a solidarity contribution from the great powers. I believe that we are doing the best we can on the basis of a proposal, advised by the Council of State and calculated by the Court of Auditors. As far as we are concerned, we are doing so as soon as possible; 2 June is already on our agenda. If other moments can be recorded in the Committee on Finance to work on fiscal justice, then our Ecolo-Green Group is asking for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the debate that we have had on this bill with various tax provisions, following an excellent cooperation with the Minister of Finance whom I thank. Indeed, he showed us his full availability and openness to try to move together towards a qualitative improvement of the text in order to meet the desired objectives. In particular, we have been able to make progress on an issue which is a regular source of friction, namely the conditionality of certain public aid to the fact that the beneficiaries do not have financial ramifications, apart from economic justification, in tax havens. This is in itself a very important step in line with the recommendations of the Panama Papers Commission. In the same way, it was also considered necessary – and I thank our colleagues in the Sp.a who have done a remarkable job – to make progress on adapting the compulsory levies at source. I want to talk here about the occupational discount on unemployment benefits. We have agreed with other colleagues, including colleagues from Ecolo-Groen, to move forward on this point in order to adapt the occupational discount and allow unemployed recipients to have an oxygen balloon resulting in an increase in their net income. I therefore thank all those colleagues. I will conclude my speech by asking a very specific question to the Minister of Finance. Mr Minister, we voted in committee on Amendment No 151 of the Open Vld, which was the subject of Subamendment No 174 of the MR. Do you confirm that Article 4 of the draft on tax exemption from premiums and subsidies allocated by the Regions to entrepreneurs and traders applies both to general orders and to individual orders?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u151	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is useful. For example, Community and regional aid will be tax-free. The Regions and the Communities took a wide range of support measures to assist affected families and businesses during these difficult times. It cannot therefore be the intention to levy income tax on these aid measures. We thought it only logical that local authorities should benefit from the same tax regime. It was nice that Mr Leysen, no doubt on behalf of the Minister, paid attention to this and took on board our group's friendly suggestion, at least in part of one of his amendments. Mr Minister, we think that temporary arrangements for future advance payments by self-employed and companies are fine. To avoid being punished if they do not pay in advance until later this year, the benefits for the last two quarters will be increased, giving self-employed and companies extra breathing space. As my colleagues and I have stressed in committee, ethical action by companies is important to us. We therefore supported the most realistic amendment, which makes it clear in this draft law that companies associated with tax havens are excluded from this advantage under this temporary favourable advance payment scheme. We were able to agree with the additional conditions surrounding this exclusion, including the fact that this exclusion is obviously not applicable if proof is provided that these payments have been made in the context of genuine and genuine transactions resulting from legitimate financial or economic needs. We have therefore indeed supported the most realistic amendment. Equally logical seemed to us the tax relief for donations of medical supplies to hospitals and health care institutions. We have also supported the extension to the provision of IT equipment. Mrs Depoorter, as regards the debate on the reduction of the VAT rate on medical protective equipment, I will not venture to read the decision of the European Commission on 3 April correctly or wrongly. However, the Flemish Interest Group has explicitly supported Mrs Depoorter's amendment, which introduced a new article on VAT exemption. However, this amendment was corrected yesterday by a large majority. Today, we will support Mrs Depoorter's new attempt not to discriminate against the European, even Belgian and Flemish production of, for example, masks. I am not convinced of the Minister's argument that the price difference would only have a marginal impact on VAT. The Flemish Interest Group is in principle in favour of this. Mr Minister, Mrs Depoorter, you were just talking about the catering industry. I was a little surprised because Mr Lachaert was talking about a first agreement this afternoon. I read Belga carefully and saw that the N-VA was also mentioned. You said that the N-VA Group would take initiatives itself. I suspect that something like this will happen in concert with other groups, as there is a catering coalition for a temporary VAT reduction to 6%. Of course, the Flemish Interest Group will, if it may, join this catering coalition. In fact, we have already put forward legislative proposals for a structural reduction in VAT. Mr Minister, I would like to take this opportunity to take a look at the bank guarantee scheme and its duration of 12 months. There is some unrest about this in the field. Some sectors and organisations argue that the duration of the bridging credits for quite a few SMEs is too short and that the scheme has not been adapted to their needs. Febelfin has already given rise to a strong balloon, at least the President of Febelfin, who has a lot to say about this in a large bank in this country. I should also like briefly to mention the forgotten sectors and the solvency measures and part 2 of the bazooka. With regard to bazooka 2, can you say anything about the carryback arrangements and the duty-free reserves? There are a lot of forgotten sectors. In the tourism sector, for example, the car sector also has a particularly difficult situation and this sector has been taken from the first day of the measures. I also mention the event and recreation sector. Not so much has been said about all these sectors, at least not in this respect. Mr President, we will be voting in favour of this draft law quite enthusiastically.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u152	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the measures taken to combat the pandemic have serious economic consequences - we repeat this every day. It was therefore important to introduce urgent tax provisions to mitigate them. Despite the urgency, consideration of the text took some time, as 194 amendments had been tabled - others have still been tabled today. We almost missed the meeting again, but I won't come back on the subject. My group welcomes the outcome of a balanced text, to which everyone has contributed. Without going back to all the tax measures that have been adopted, I will welcome some of them. First of all, in response to my colleague Laaouej's request, aid to businesses and allowances for individuals granted by the Regions, the Communities, but also the provinces and municipalities, will be exempt. On this point, an amendment by our group aimed to consider the direct and indirect economic and social consequences of the coronavirus crisis, to provide for a sufficiently broad scope for maximum aid of various kinds and categories of beneficiaries and to extend the application of the measure until 31 December 2020. We welcome, as we have understood, its adoption in committee. Another measure concerns the temporary adjustment of the calculation of the increase for absence or insufficiency of advance payments. The aim is to avoid, of course, significant increases to companies that would face cash flow problems. In this regard, we welcome the unanimous adoption of an amendment to exclude taxpayers who pay funds to companies established in tax havens and to those who have a direct stake in them. We must absolutely avoid abuses and ensure fair and effective taxation. On the other hand, the crisis and the measures taken have consequences for the tax shelter in favour of audiovisual and performing arts. Support for this sector is essential. I would point out that for one euro with a tax advantage, there is two to three times more taxable income depending on whether the productions are European or Belgian, thanks to the obligation to spend in the country. We are pleased that our amendments to the absolute investor ceiling have been adopted, thus contributing more broadly to the support of stage and audiovisual works. The text also provides for the extension of the tax periods to 12 months. My colleague Depoorter talked about it. We have co-signed his amendment, as well as other amendments on the anteriority of expenditure, which have been tabled by my colleagues in the Open Vld. This is good news, since it means that the sector is properly supported. The bill also facilitates in-kind donations of medical equipment or products that are useful in the fight against the pandemic. Solidarity is thus encouraged. Finally, I welcome - and this is more anecdotal, but it is important - the unanimity that has taken place in support of our amendment authorizing the reimbursement of excise duties already paid on beer in barrels and vats and which has become unsold following the closure of cafes and restaurants and the cancellation of major events. It may seem anecdotal, but for producers, it's not at all. This still represents large sums that have been paid. Since it is an indirect tax on consumption, it was normal that, in the absence of consumption, reimbursement should be provided for. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the tax measures contained in this draft are urgent and necessary. They provide support to both individuals and businesses, sometimes heavily impacted by the current crisis. I welcome the quality of this bill, minister, and the way in which it was dealt with in committee. The MR Group will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u153	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed an important draft law that is before us, with a number of important measures, not only for companies but also for many individuals and families, who are currently struggling in the current COVID-19 crisis. I will not go over all the measures contained in the draft. After all, there are a lot of them. However, I would like to emphasise a number of principles and core values, which have been incorporated into the law and which are important to us. Firstly, it is the recognition and appreciation of a great deal of volunteering, but also for self-employed people and businesses, who have worked hard to make, for example, mouth masks and also to give them to the institutions they needed and need. We are thinking of the OMCW but also of certain institutions, such as youth welfare. An existing system is used, which was important in order to be able to roll things out properly and quickly without any administrative burden on those institutions. A second principle, which has already been mentioned here, is the principle of fair taxation, translated into the principle that certain aid, in particular the benefits for advance payments, cannot apply to companies that have a link to tax havens. This is an important principle, which is taking off and is now enshrined in this law in our country. It is a principle which will certainly come back in the future. It's also something to keep in mind. A third important aspect of the draft law is to increase the purchasing power of people who really need it at the moment, such as those in temporary unemployment. This increase is due to the reduction of the farm levy to 15%, which we supported with a large number of parties. By adopting the draft law here today, the measure can still perfectly be implemented for May's wages. In that case, we will be in time to adapt the systems, which makes a great deal of difference for those people in that situation. A fourth important principle is the fact that institutions and organisations that need mouth masks and nails can now benefit from the VAT rate of 6%, which is reaffirmed in this bill. Finally, there is the last principle, in particular aid to the poorest businesses, the catering industry and trade. There is the exemption from the aid measures, which were soon introduced by the various Länder. It has a direct effect and is also appreciated in the field. There is also the possibility for municipalities to provide for additional tailor-made support and to exempt them from tax. So there are a lot of measures and principles, which all have an impact on different target groups and which will certainly provide support on the ground and make the difference for all who need it. It is a good start to continue to work in the coming weeks, because we feel that measures will still have to be taken, sometimes for specific sectors. Let this be the beginning of further constructive cooperation on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u154	Mr President, I would like to explain our proposal to introduce a one-off coronatak of 5% on the part above EUR 3 million. The use of this one-off legislative proposal is quite significant, because in this health crisis we are all faced with the question of whether the most wealthy are also called upon to do their fair share in the collective effort. If we do not do this, if we forget the top layer and do not address it, then the result is obvious. The invoice then flows to those who are now torturing the corona crisis through their labor, through their work, the corona heroes of every day. I know that there are a number of parties in this House who are very keen to defend the top layer, which is good for the debate. Just last week, Mr Francken, who is not here today, defended the fact that the 1% rich people are very badly affected by this crisis. I understand that some parties like to defend the 1%, but it is important that we have the debate in this crisis on the need for that 1% share to contribute now. In this respect, I call on all parties to look at the content of our proposal and not hide behind its technicality. I look forward very much to the voting behaviour of, for example, CD&V, now that the ACV also advocates a real capital tax, precisely in this corona crisis. I look forward very much to their voting behaviour, but also to that of sp.a., Green and Ecolo: will they or will they not support this proposal on corona tax? Our bill has 36 pages with 69 articles and was worked out by lawyers and economists. It's a good setup. We have been able to study this in the last two weeks. We have been able to ask all the additional questions about it. I suggest that we not hide behind it and go into the essence. The essence of the matter remains that the gap between rich and poor in the midst of the corona crisis is just widening. The essence of the matter remains that the congestion at the food banks is increasing. The essence of the matter remains that there are almost one hundred thousand and probably two hundred thousand people who are afraid to permanently lose their jobs. The essence of the matter remains that there are tens of thousands of small self-employed people who are already on the brink of water. On the other side of society, at the top, capacity inequality is increasing, which is one of the greatest political taboos in this Parliament. The National Bank of Belgium has issued another report stating that capital inequality is increasing at the top. The question of this bill is fair and a genuine interpretation of the concept of fair taxation, namely to make that summit a contribution. How do you do that? If a number of parties agreed to address these superpowers, then the next question is how to do it technically. How do we really make that happen? One can then choose between a bone knife or a scalpel. One can opt for a blunt knife to also hit the entire middle class with an income tax on assets. That's not what we're here for. We propose that we focus, that we endorse, not on the richest 10% but on the top layer of 2%, where the capital increase really is according to the National Bank. So we are not proposing a blunt blade but a scalpel to introduce a one-off power load, a corona tax for that 2 %, and a one-off levy of 5% on the part of the power above 3 million euros. In addition to the question of who is being addressed, the middle class or the top layer, to which our answer is clearly the top layer, there is a second question: what ambition does one have? Does one have the ambition to get a piece of cake? Or does one have a serious ambition? Together with many other economists, we propose to raise EUR 15 billion during this corona crisis. There were technical arguments not to introduce this. The Council of State is not at all concerned here, because it is about constitutional conflicts and conflicts of power. The Court of Auditors controls expenditure, but that can only be done on the basis of a capital registry. This bill is just suggesting the introduction of a power caster. If we had applied all these practical technical declarations that are made in order not to introduce them to our proposal to set up an emergency fund for care, that emergency fund would never have been there. Fortunately, in November, we pushed through the emergency care fund, so that at least more money went to the healthcare sector. Today, Parliament can decide autonomously to introduce a one-off corona tax. Then we can have a major fiscal debate in June. One doesn't rule out the other. We have to do that, but it is not because we are having a big fiscal debate in June that we cannot raise a one-off tax on multimillionaires today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u155	I am pleased that this bill by Minister De Croo will be put to the vote today. I found that despite a number of bumps in the race route, especially at the end, this was in a good collaboration. Moreover, the Minister has elegantly plucked a number of sensitive strings from non-majority parties. In committee, through the majority of governments, I have ensured that we can reach a consensus here. I remain surprised at some working methods and principles in this House, where often the word "urgency" is mentioned. But hurry and rush is rarely good. The principle of the efficiency of the work is more important. Maybe I've been deformed by an almost 45-year career in business. In the meantime, I have read in the President of the Chamber's article that he is also surprised at how this Parliament operates in these exceptional times and allows the flow of expenditure to flow from all sides. I will ask a question about that, by the way. I have set up a company myself and I would like to point out that not only do the companies create a lot of employment and pay a lot of social security contributions, but that their employees also pay a lot of income taxes. I would like to point out to colleagues that if we spend EUR 30 billion more this year than we have income, if NV Belgium has a public debt that is twice as big as our annual income. We are always talking about 50% of GDP and a debt of 110 %. Compared to the turnover of the NV Belgium, we are in big debt, and we are very happy to increase it in these corona times. It is normal for a moment of crisis to remove the brakes, but it is always necessary to ensure that there is a balance. Sooner or later, everything will come together. If we are not careful and continue to function as we are today for the next few years, and if everyone puts expenditure on the table for which there is an occasional majority, and I quote: "The people will be crushed with taxes. We'll borrow on loan. After exhausting the present, we will devour the future." If, in the context of this exceptional situation, we do not re-examine a conscious path towards budgetary balance, then we will not get there. It is therefore important that we pay attention and respect to the people who work, to the entrepreneurs and to the businesses. Let us be very clear: entrepreneurs and the self-employed, like our group, are in favour of fair taxation. From the report of the Supreme Court of Finance we learn a number of things. There are themes that no one dares touch, such as the flow of the taxable base abroad through the big technological companies. The report also states that we are in sixth place in a group of 30 countries in terms of income tax, that we are even higher in terms of capital taxes and that we are at the very bottom of consumption taxes. We must also ask ourselves whether we should not bring all this into line within the European market. Now we are at an exceptional stage in which everything is possible and all kinds of things are urgent, without respect for quality standards or for the work of the committees of the Chamber which have to deal with all this. The result is, of course, that we also have to make many corrections. I would like to conclude by asking the Minister to ensure that we get the expenditure we are doing back into a normal pattern as soon as possible. Let us be honest, if people spend a lot and decide on it very quickly, then there will also be improper use. I'm not even talking about fraud, but the resources can go to things they're not meant to be. For example, my son has just told me that he has received a cheque of 200 euros for energy, whereas energy prices have fallen by 20% and he still lives with his parents. So he decided to try to return it. We must therefore be aware that we are slowly returning to a normal mode, in which we must support companies and not drive them away. We can, of course, end up in the paradise of Cuba or Venezuela, and we can go to an economy with many government holding companies that are thought to be doing better. We live in a country where more than 50% is already controlled by a lot of institutions, established values that are happy to be able to spend it. I think we should slowly get back on the ground. I would like to ask the President-in-Office that the services should add up all these initiatives from the Chamber, the list of the hundreds of millions we spend week after week and that will be repaid one day, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow? Or are we going to hyperinflation, eating everything we have? I think we should be sober about that. I'm glad we're taking this step. I hope we will learn from it, but I ask both the Minister and the President of the Chamber that we continue to see the reality. I also refer to Carl Devos, who says that Parliament has a hole in his hand. It can't stay that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u156	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with the conclusion that the sp.a. will support this draft law. My fellow Members have already explained in detail the various measures contained in this draft. I won't repeat them. I am particularly pleased that we have been able to improve the preliminary draft with different groups. The sp.a Group has examined this text from the outset in the light of three important principles. Firstly, where there is abuse, no support can follow. Secondly, where families have suffered financial damage as a result of the crisis, we need to see how we can give them more breathing space. Thirdly, we need to look at how we can take steps towards a fair tax system, where everyone gets their share, but everyone also does their part. As far as the first two principles are concerned, I am very pleased that the sp.a Group has been able to move forward with specific amendments which have led to a broad majority in favour of supplementing the draft law with a number of articles. I would like to thank those Members who have taken care of this. In Article 7, we have established that companies with holdings in tax havens or companies making important payments to tax havens are excluded from aid. The specific wording of the amendment that has been adopted is anything but non-binding when we look at the weight of the definition that we have put into it, with a reference to the dos-and-don'ts, but also when we see how we have put a subjective element in it that gives our administration and the judge a lever to keep those payments under review. Secondly, we have been able to ensure that families who have suffered a financial disadvantage can now improve on it and get more financial space. I am referring, of course, to those who spend exceptionally long periods of time in temporary unemployment and see their family income fall. To this end, we have reduced the corporate tax on these benefits to 15%, without having to pay an invoice afterwards. However, I cannot hide from you, ladies and gentlemen, that the spa group is disappointed at the principle that everyone should not only get their fair share, but should also do their fair share. We could have taken steps forward in this and our spa group has put forward a concrete proposal for the resuscitation of the impact tax known here by all the groups. This is an annual tax on large power and, more specifically, on a part of the ability that is perfectly known up to two digits after the comma and can be perfectly valued up to two digits after the comma. Our proposal for a security tax is also immediately feasible, ladies and gentlemen, because we are finally talking about a draft law on urgent provisions, which are therefore immediately enforceable. On this point, Mr Mertens, the PVDA proposal is far from satisfactory. We have, of course, read your proposal with great interest and we have seen that it requires, for example, the creation of a new service at the FPS Finance Office to establish that tax and to monitor its collection. Families whose assets or parts of them we absolutely do not know should make a balance sheet of assets themselves, determine their value and calculate the amount due themselves. Something like that may sound good on Facebook, colleague, but that is not an enforceable bill. It's totally impossible. This is not a serious work in the context of a draft law implementing urgent tax provisions. Mr Mertens, you were right to make the comparison with the Health Care Staff Fund. An amendment that was adopted here was also impossible, until Mr Jan Bertels, from my sp.a-group, tabled a legislative proposal to turn it into reality. Although your proposal was voted off, but our proposal for an securities tax was also voted off, the debate on fair taxation will not disappear. Ladies and gentlemen, you can count on the sp.a to put forward concrete proposals that will ensure that great capacities will also contribute. In fact, we retabled our proposal for the introduction of a securities tax months ago, but we have now notified it for urgent consideration in the Finance Committee. Mr President, I would like to propose that our proposal should be sent to the Council of State now, so that the Council of State can look at it immediately, so that it can be introduced quickly if it is approved. Colleagues, sp.a has also worked on a re-launch plan with a new social deal, with the final result being a fiscal pact designed to ensure a fair tax system that treats every income equally, whether it concerns employees or shareholders. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that our current tax system ensures that many people pay too much taxes because a small group pays too little. I look forward to discussing this with you, for example in the context of the report of the Supreme Court of Finance, which has put forward very interesting proposals on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u157	Mr Mertens, you are asking for the floor for a personal statement, but I will give you the floor in the second round. If I have to give the floor to every Member who feels addressed, you have also followed the debate. The debate will be extended by a few hours. Your name was mentioned, and that's why you'll be able to replicate later. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you all of the solemn promise expressed in the Conference of Presidents to complete the debate within one hour. Mr Loones asked for the floor in the second round, and Mr Mertens would certainly like to respond to what Mr Vandenbroucke said.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u158	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u159	Mr Loones, if you stop asking for the floor, you will make it easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u160	Mr. Chair, minister, be assured; I will be quick and I will go straight to the point. This is a project that we will support. In the exceptional circumstances that are known, companies, self-employed, small traders, but also households, must be taken into account. I would like to point out in this connection the importance of exempting aid measures taken by the different levels of power, be it the Regions, the Communities, the provinces or the communes, or the part of the professional discount. We had tabled a bill to that effect ourselves. It allows the existence of an income that is actually available, which is both fairer than the financial receipts, and which is also a breath of oxygen as a result of the significant decline in incomes experienced by many citizens. Secondly, there is the element of fairness and tax justice, the principle of which will be important for the future, particularly with regard to aid to companies linked to tax havens. Finally, I come to the health component. First, compared to donations, an extraordinary volunteer has begun for weeks now, not only for the manufacture of masks, but also for different types of protective materials. Secondly, with regard to the reduction of VAT on hydro-alcoholic masks and gels, I have a regret and a question. Regrettably, there is no retroactivity. Many municipalities have really mobilized to make orders and bring alternative masks in fabric, sometimes surgical masks, to schools and citizens. It is still a pity that these municipalities, which have invested so much, and especially those which have ordered in advance, find themselves with a non-reduction of the VAT rate. The question. The importation of hydro-alcoholic masks and gels by hospitals, if I am not mistaken, Minister, is subject to a total exemption from VAT. I would like to make sure that we do not end up with 6% VAT on hospitals, whereas normally they benefit from the total exemption. I would like you to confirm that for them, therefore, this will be a total exemption, which will take precedence over the 6% VAT rate. It would be the peak of such a situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u161	I find it particularly disappointing that the sp.a. Group does not vote in favour of our proposal. I really think it's a missed opportunity. I am also stunned by the speech made by her speaker. For the Health Care Staff Fund, we immediately had a legislative proposal in place, which was finally adopted in an alternative form in Parliament with the support of the PS, sp.a and Ecolo Green Groups, which was a good thing. You don't have to play Pinocchio in that regard. That was also possible today around our proposal. The problem with the securities tax is that the biggest assets in Belgium do not put their fortune on a securities account, but are housed in all kinds of companies. With the effect tax you do not find the top layer. That may be a point of discussion; at least you must be honest about it. The PVDA-PTB Group, on the other hand, proposes the introduction of a power grid. By the way, the capital tax in France, which existed for 20 years without a capital star, still earned 20 billion each year. You are being a little ridiculous about declaring yourself, but if the superpowers want to pass on a legacy, they must also do an evaluation of their heritage. Something like that does happen. I've been hearing such statements from sp.a. for 20 years now. I would prefer her to speak in plain language, admit that she is not in favour of a capital tax in her own right and that she is keeping away from the umbrella of technical arguments for not introducing capital tax. For 20 years it has been magical with technical facts, for 20 years it has been magical with arguments, referring to the Council of State and the Court of Auditors and so on, so as not to tackle the capabilities and to seek alternatives to the upper middle class. It's a big disagreement. So, as adults, let us admit the political disagreement and discuss it instead of playing Pinocchio on a number of arguments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u162	I give the floor to the Minister. After his answer, we can see if anyone would like to add anything to the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u163	Mr President, what is before us is indeed the fruit of a very intense cooperation with many political groups. We have tried to find each other even before the next part-session. We do not need to repeat the debate in committee, but I would like to make a point. I hope that Parliament will not approve texts which go against European legislation or which would entail very high risks of fraud. I'm declaring myself. For example, it is particularly difficult in practice to recover VAT retroactively. This also entails a huge risk of fraud. For example, if we adopt proposals that go against the VAT directive, we would install legal uncertainty, which I do not think is a good thing. We have discussed this sufficiently in committee. I do not think anyone is doing a service by adopting a text that would be legally totally unstable. No one is obliged to believe me in that. As a minister, I can only express my views on this. A number of measures adopted here are conditioned. This applies, for example, to the measure on advance payments in corporation tax. We have also looked in Parliament to see how we could strengthen this. In this respect, several groups have also added additional elements, which we have been able to include in the final text. In any case, I will try to take up the conditionality that is being used here in other draft laws with which I come to Parliament. In my view, the proposal that we are working on in the area of solvency should contain the same kind of conditionality. Mr Laaouej, you mentioned the fact that we have added measures about professional discount. It was a request from several political groups. As regards your specific question on Article 4 on tax exemption, this applies both to the general part and to the individual part, provided that it is attributed by the Regions or local authorities. Let me come back to what has been said about solvency measures. The solvency measures are not now on the table. That is what I will come to Parliament with. These are broad measures, which do not concern one particular sector and which can be widely applied. Someone said that we should not only talk about the catering and related sectors and that other sectors are having a difficult time; hence, we are generally working with broad measures. Finally, hospitals that import directly are exempt from VAT. I think I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u164	Are there any Members who would like to speak for a reply to the Minister's reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u165	Mr President, we are not going to repeat the discussion in committee, but I would like to reply honestly. Mr Minister, you say that there may be problems with our amendment, but it is true that yesterday in committee it was made very clear that the same problems may arise in the case of non-deduction of VAT. This is a measure by which we would support our Flemish companies and with which we respond to our competitive position vis-à-vis Chinese producers. Parliament can approve that perfectly. Furthermore, I do not like what you say about fraud, Minister. I have a problem with you calling organizations like Doctors Without Borders or Oxfam, which buy medical devices to distribute them, fraud-prone. This is a very exhaustive list of institutions and a limited list of resources, and we can proceed perfectly with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u166	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u167	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1174/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1174/9) The bill has 31 clauses. The draft law has 31 articles. * * * * * * * Amendments tabled: Amendments tabled:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u168	• 195 Peter Mertens cs (1174/10) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u169	Sustained: the amendments. Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 31.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u170	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u171	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Vincent Scourneau, Benoît Friart, Len Dierick.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u172	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u173	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u174	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u175	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1138/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1138/1) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u176	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u177	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Jessika Soors, Egbert Lachaert, Gilles Vanden Burre, Khalil Aouasti, Kris Verduyckt, Sammy Mahdi, Tinne Van der Straeten, Catherine Fonck, Sophie Rohonyi.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u178	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1182/6) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1182/6) The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u179	Mr President, I refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u180	Mr President, this is a subject that we have been dealing with, with many debates, in the weeks that have passed. I think it's happy. That's the first thing I'd like to say here. The text that we have tabled, together with my colleague Jessika Soors, has been co-signed by colleagues from many political groups – I would like to thank them – so that we can, here in Parliament, appropriate this important debate in the context of defending our individual freedoms and our privacy. This debate relates to the possible introduction by the government, with the cooperation of the Regions, of a digital application in order to trace and thus combat coronavirus in the period of deconfination. For us, it was important for this debate to take place in Parliament. We were able to hold it efficiently and quickly. Having the debate in committee and in Parliament and having the widest possible democratic basis at the level of co-signatories was fundamental. To this was added the criterion of speed since there is an emergency at the level of the disease, at the level of the pandemic, at the level of the projects that are in connection with the progressive definity that we are experiencing today. As I have just said, for us to have the debate in committee and in Parliament was essential. This is a first objective that we have achieved. We had the debate in the Committee on the Economy and the Digital Agenda; we had the debate in the Committee on Justice – two mornings of debates. We had hearings, very quickly, with experts, experts, university professors, the State Security, the Data Protection Authority, the Human Rights League. We have been able to have a very broad and very interesting debate with actors from the relevant circles. Above all, we have gone into depth, which is a necessity in this type of debate. In addition, we had an exchange of views with Minister De Backer, whom we interviewed for almost two hours after the hearings. He explained to us, in detail, the project developed within the framework of the task force "Data Against Corona", which he personally set up. Indeed, many issues remained outstanding. Although we understand the urgency, some elements lacked transparency. I am thinking in particular of the members of this task force. There were questions about who was doing what at the level of members of the Data Protection Authority and members of the Task Force. All these points have been clarified by the minister, who has supported, in the wake of that, the guidelines set out in our motion for a resolution. The work has therefore been very constructive. The beacons that – I hope – will be voted on in a few moments by this Assembly are, in our view, fundamental. I won't take them all back because you've come to know about it. I will mention only a few of them, which we think are extremely important, even if the motion for a resolution is a coherent whole. There is no question of selecting, later, the tags that we wish to keep. In fact, the minister has made a commitment to introduce a bill, which has been done since then. It is currently being submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. It reflects the guidelines and principles that are, today, anchored in the resolution that we are going to vote on. Of course, we are referring to the European regulation, to all the legal provisions on the protection of privacy and individual freedoms, and we believe that certain criteria are fundamental if, in the future, regional governments, in connection with and in support of the federal government, should opt for a digital application. We are thinking in particular of the fact that this must be done on a voluntary basis, without any obligation, contrary to what exists in other democratic countries where citizens are obliged to register. For us, this is unthinkable. We also believe that the system that will eventually be put in place should be decentralized. Indeed, there is no question of having a centralised database to monitor or have access to information about our citizens. We also exclude geolocation. In other words, there is no question of geolocation of citizens. The system must be decentralized. If an application were to come into being, it would be a Bluetooth app on phones that would allow users to locate each other remotely. But I repeat, there is no question of geolocation. Moreover, what is also fundamental to us is that everything is open (open code, open source, open access), all that is called total openness and transparency in relation to possible algorithms, in relation to possible functionings, in relation to the databases and data that will be used. Of course, under no circumstances should commercial use be allowed a posteriori. It's unthinkable for us. As soon as the project is complete, all this data must either be destroyed or no longer be usable via a system by other actors. We also request an audit. It is essential, if such an experiment is to take place, to be able to evaluate it a posteriori and to audit what has happened well, what has happened less well and any complaints from our fellow citizens. Other elements are included in the resolution, but I really wanted to highlight the main ones, repeating that our main motivation was to have this debate, here in Parliament, in a completely transparent way with actors and actresses, experts and experts, university professors and the Human Rights League around this data protection. We are very pleased, with my colleague Jessika Soors and also with the other colleagues who co-signed the text, to have been able to conduct this debate with a strong democratic foundation and, above all, with the ultimate support of the minister who has really put forward the principles of privacy first, that is, the defence of individual freedoms and privacy. That's what we wanted to do. It is therefore a high-quality and in-depth parliamentary work that has been carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u181	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, can technology help us move forward in a safe and friendly way? For example, can a telephone application for contact investigations help us avoid or avert a new threat of overloading our health system and the associated risks of a new lockdown for as long as possible? After all, we still have sufficient resilience, but a new second, third or fourth lockdown could have disastrous consequences for our economy, our prosperity, our well-being and our morale. What is the proverbial price that we would have to pay for such an application in terms of damaging our privacy? These are all questions which have been of concern to us since the beginning of the current pandemic and which have finally come to the table here in the sitting. I suspect and hope that the other groups have had as intense an internal debate on this as our group has done. Mr D'Haese said on behalf of the N-VA Group in the Committee on Justice: "This dossier seems to be of an ethical nature, because many colleagues and citizens have long expressed their views on a possible telephone application for contact research, but there are still a lot of questions about privacy friendliness and its effectiveness." In any case, it certainly seems that contact research will be an indispensable tool to contain the COOVID-19 virus as effectively as possible and also to provide us with as normal a life as possible in the short term, hopefully. The contact investigation is by definition privacy invasive. Now that the Regions have started the manual contact investigation, even though this is more likely to be done with punches and horns, that becomes sufficiently clear. The first signals we were allowed to receive about the manual contact research show that its effectiveness is not yet so convincing. Not everyone is inclined to share information, which has led a number of experts this week to argue for a further weapon to be thrown into battle, the digital contact investigation. I am thinking, for example, of Professor Herman Goossens on the news of VTM last night. Is such a contact tracking app, as we call it in clean modern Flemish, sufficiently privacy-friendly? Are you sure it's worth letting the app roll out? Let us start with the effectiveness of such an app. There's still a lot of fog around that effectiveness. Only the application in practice will indicate the usefulness of such a contact research application. On the other hand, it is possible at European level to link the opening of borders for summer holidays with the use of some app. We must also be afraid that, in a few weeks or months' time, we will not suddenly find ourselves as the only European country still waiting for the platform, while the rest of the European class has long taken the train towards a sunny destination. However, it is clearly up to the Regions to decide whether or not an app is being rolled out. Perhaps the debate on its effectiveness should be first and foremost at that level. What we can already do here, at federal level, is provide as strict a legal framework as possible for such applications in the field of data protection. The resolution before us today is a first step in this direction. This proposal for a resolution makes a firm choice for the most privacy-friendly architecture of such a contact research application and also follows the recommendation of the European Commission and the European Data Protection Committee. The resolution therefore demands, first and foremost, firm guarantees for the full voluntary participation of citizens. Citizens will also be able to decide at any time in the process to stop their participation. I quote from the text of the resolution. "The use of the app or the display of the dates therein cannot be imposed by the employer, nor by public transport or by any other third party as a requirement for access to a place or for any other purpose." Also, this app can only be used as a tool for the public and also to warn citizens, but should under no circumstances be used to follow a social-distanting measure or quarantine or its control. Furthermore, the storage of personal data must be decentralised in order to guarantee absolute anonymity, not in a central database, but on the individual device of the participants and, of course, only for the limited period during which it is epidemiologically useful and the data are necessary. In addition, it is determined to make the data collection possible only via bluetooth, and not via GPS. Data collection via GPS brings with it quite automatically much greater privacy risks. We have also heard that the source code of the application should be made publicly available, which seriously reduces the chance that less reliable or too commercial players would start developing such an application. In addition, a public source code also offers the opportunity to gain citizens' confidence in such an application. Furthermore, all guarantees provided by the General Data Protection Regulation will of course have to be respected. This includes the guarantees I listed at the beginning of my speech when I was talking about manual contact tracing. I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their good cooperation on this dossier. Of course, it would have been a little more courteous if the main applicant's group had not overlooked the largest political groups in this House when sending the invitation to co-signature. But in these special times we of N-VA continue to reach out to everyone of good will and less good will. The coronavirus does not stop at the front door of a Green or N-VA member. In committee we have therefore proposed nine amendments to the text. Five of them were adopted by a large majority. We continue to fully defend the usefulness or necessity of the four rejected amendments as well. We want to repeat one of them today and put it to the vote again. For we do not understand why this resolution calls for the government to order an audit after the epidemic has ended if there are no significant complaints or problems with a possible app. I can only observe that in this country, unfortunately, the disease is extremely difficult to dig up. However, it is our job as a good father to jump with the resources of the citizen. Finally, in order to remove all misunderstandings among colleagues who still have doubts about their voting position, this motion for a resolution does not call for an application to be rolled out from the government anyway. In the light of our fundamental rights, and in particular the right to privacy, it only draws the chalk lines that allow us to have such an application. Our group will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u182	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for my group, and as indicated in the many debates in committee that have taken place in recent weeks, there are two debates. There is the debate on the database related to manual tracing and there is the debate on the application. This resolution effectively focuses exclusively on the question of implementation. And where the debate on the database has yet to be conducted and will follow a path of its own, but which I believe will be long in view of the signs in terms of respect for democratic rights and the right to privacy, for the application, it is otherwise. I have a regret today and a lot of satisfaction. And since I'm a positive man, I'm going to start with regret. My regret is that I wanted to include in this motion the fact that the bill is not a bill but a bill. This was a strong will because I felt it was up to the government to justify the need for an electronic application in Belgium in view of its effectiveness, which was described in an initial opinion of the Data Protection Authority. He was otherwise in committee. It's a democratic choice. It's a regret that's mine. So today we are moving forward on a bill that we have almost all co-signed and that will make its way and that has yet to be debated. But, in my view, even before discussing the parameters, respect for fundamental rights, respect for the right to privacy, it will be necessary to discuss this need. It is not because the text has been put forward that necessity is acquired. And this need in terms of enforcement - the Data Protection Authority is very clear - can only take place if it is the least "onerous" means, in terms of human rights and respect for privacy. But we all know here today that there is already another process in place in the different regions. It is human tracing or manual tracing which works, as well as bad, and which must be the subject of another discussion, that of the database with democratic beacons which are not yet included in the text today but which will have to be inserted in it tomorrow. This debate on the need cannot be sidelined in the committees because this need will lead us to choose between approving and rejecting the bill. It is only when we say "yes" to the need for the debate on democratic beacons. The two texts were also sent to the two bodies, the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority, whose opinions we are awaiting, which is why the committee was unable to meet this morning. It comes to my mind that a first debate should already take place next Tuesday in the Committee on Health. The agenda to be published should tell us more. In any event, the text as it stands today is wrong in many essential points. The first essential element, in my view, is the mention of plural applications. It had been made clear, however, that only one application would be envisaged and that it would be a public application, not a legal framework that could be open to different sectors such as the private sector, which was free to design applications itself, with all the consequences. Another fundamental element that is not included in the text is impact assessment. To date, this analysis has not been carried out, although it is a prerequisite for discussion of the application. We should add to this the exercise of rights by the voluntary users of this application, an exercise which is not provided for in the text and which should therefore be included, as well as the question of open source, moreover. I am pleased to see that the resolution that we are voting on today contains a lot of benchmarks, all of which will have to be incorporated into a future bill. I hope that this will be the minimum set of benchmarks to be taken into account in a bill to be adopted by a committee and this plenary assembly, provided that it has considered this to be necessary in advance. I'm delighted, with a regret. Our group will vote in favour of this resolution, considering that there are two debates to be held – on the basis of data and on implementation – and that the question of the need for implementation is not evident to date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u183	Mr President, it has already been announced that, in order to try to contain this epidemic, contact research will have to be carried out in addition to mass testing. The question we have to ask ourselves is whether this contact tracing app is a necessary element in this. We must dare to ask ourselves whether the cure is not worse than the disease. This resolution outlines the problems created by such an app, mainly in terms of privacy. About 20 conditions are imposed. The Flemish Interest Group can accept almost all the conditions, and we have supported them with one exception in the votes in committee. However, it makes no sense to review all the conditions one by one here in plenary. The Flemish Interest Group has asked itself, in many of these conditions, which are often the logic itself, how to put things into practice and control them. For example, it is rightly stated that databases should be independent, that data should not be linked to other data. I fully agree with that, but that cannot be guaranteed in any way. Everyone heard in the hearings that Professor De Graeve refused to believe that the Corona app would be completely independent from other government databases. The balance to be made today is whether the benefits of the app outweigh its risks. In view of the importance of privacy and private life, this consideration is by no means simple and even less innocent. As exceptional as the situation is, however limited the intention of using that app, that app is in any case an attack on the prohibition of interference in private life, as protected by Article 22 of the Constitution, Article 12 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights. The resolution rightly states that, in order to be effective, the so-called corona app must certainly meet three conditions. First of all, as many people as possible need to install the app. Secondly, the app must have the confidence of the citizen. Thirdly, the app must rely on reliable tests. The capacity to test and the duration of the tests is still insufficient, but the necessary confidence of the citizen is not present at all. I referred in committee to the research of the University of Antwerp, which shows that 50% is not willing to install that app. However, Minister De Backer said that if 60% of people do not use the app, it is not useful. A professor of the KU Leuven considered that a rate of use of 15% to 20% was sufficient in the hearings, but we have not received any scientific evidence to support this. I have already done it in committee, but I would like to make another comparison with Austria, where a similar effort has been made and where, despite warm calls from the Red Cross, there has been an increase of between 3% and 4%. The hearings also dealt with a number of major problems which could result in such an app. I'll get back to you on two. One problem was raised by Jaak Raes, who represented State Security and saw a serious problem in the vulnerability to hacking and espionage. When an app is widely used by the public, there is a chance that it is intended to harm and abuse our country. I wonder how the company that needs to develop this app will then be controlled and how it can be made clear that this control will be sound. Such a check is not reassuring if the government has not yet been able to control companies to order simple mouth masks. That certainly doesn't inspire confidence. The second major problem raised in the hearings was the lack of transparency. It was a fairly technical explanation of the source code. My colleague Erik Gilissen is better at this and has asked further questions to Professor Preneel, including in relation to the control of this open source software. The professor's answer was that it was quite difficult to check whether the app, which is installed with users, corresponds to 100 % of the released open source code. In the app, things can still be hidden that can't be found in the source code. These are all very few reassuring things that we heard in the hearings. Let me take this opportunity to comment on the lack of confidence. In order for the app to be efficient, trust is needed. Well, unlike other good amendments tabled by Mr Freilich, which we have supported in committee, we will not be voting in favour of his amendment today. His blind faith in the Belgian state moved me very much, but for such an important matter as a privacy app an audit is necessary. Externally, we do not see internal tampering in a system and an audit is therefore appropriate for our group. We certainly cannot support the amendment in question. Our vision could be summarized briefly with the words of Horatius:quid leges sine moribus. Laws don't make fools of themselves when the morals are against them. You cannot really blame the citizens today that they have lost confidence in the government, because they reap what they sow. If we say for weeks that closing borders does not help to combat the epidemic and that mouth masks are not useful, and then we have to come back to that later, then there is no need to be surprised that the government is no longer believed when it says that hoarding is not necessary. You don't have to be surprised that the public doesn't have confidence in the government. How can majority parties be trusted in the development of such an important app that goes against privacy if the same parties are not even able to organise a simple online election properly? Colleagues, there is no certainty as to the proportionality and necessity of the proposed measure. On the contrary, there are already very serious problems and there is a lack of trust among citizens. The high risk of breaches of privacy makes us fear that the remedy might be worse than the disease. Despite the good intentions described in the present motion for a resolution, and all the conditions contained in the text have been paved the way to hell with good intentions, it creates a framework that allows the development of the app. For all the reasons I outlined briefly in committee and just now, we do not think the development of the app is a good idea. Many of the good conditions are unworkable. Here the red carpet is rolled out for the app. We are consistent: since we are not in favour of such a corona app, we cannot approve the resolution proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u184	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to stress the importance of this text. The implementation of possible application tracing which would be complementary to manual tracing and testing must, of course, be strictly supervised in order to ensure respect for our individual freedoms and to find a balance, in order to respond proportionately to the crisis. It's fundamental. To this end, the MR Group has made significant progress in the text of the motion for a resolution, such as the obligation for third parties to comply with the rules on professional secrecy - as provided for in Article 458 of the Criminal Code - the reference to the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation or the removal of any possibility of using the data collected for the processing of complaints. I thank the colleagues who supported our amendments. This motion for a resolution is, as I said, essential. However, the legislative proposals currently under discussion on the Sciensano database and on the enforcement component are even more so and will receive our attention in the coming weeks. Our group will ensure that this balance is found in order to manage properly the deconfination and the fight against the pandemic, without undermining our rights and freedoms. In order to restore our freedom of movement outside Belgium and within the European Union as soon as possible, our group will ensure - as is evident from our position in this text - that the chosen application model ensures compatibility and interoperability on a European scale, but of course without geolocation, within the framework of the European toolbox, with Bluetooth technology and a decentralised server. I repeat that this opportunity is a crucial issue in defeating this pandemic. But this digital tracing, no more than manual tracing, can under no circumstances be done to the detriment of our hard-won rights and freedoms, which we must be careful to preserve and defend. In this regard, I would like to recall the words of Prof. Preneel of the KUL, according to which "manual tracing is more invasive of privacy than digital tracing as we hear it – I would say to the European". We will therefore support this motion for a resolution and continue our work along the above lines on the two bills that are currently being tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in committee, we voted for this motion for a resolution because the right to privacy and the right to the protection of personal data are fundamental rights. It is true that this resolution is a step in the right direction, which is why we support this text, which contains important elements, including making public the functioning of the proposed mobile application, including its algorithm and source code. This text explicitly and definitively excludes the use of location data and other personal data, as well as all data allowing even indirectly the individual identification of citizens. The data retention period shall be defined and automatically deleted as soon as possible. Together with my group, we have tabled eight amendments to strengthen this resolution. Of these, two were adopted in committee. The first aims to make public the assessment of the impact on data protection in its entirety and the report of the prior consultation with the Data Protection Authority. The second points out that the data collected cannot under any circumstances be combined with other data. Ladies and gentlemen, no one in this House can say that this text is perfect. Many safeguards are still needed to make privacy a right for everyone. If an application were to emerge, its primary role would be to be effective. However, still today, many questions remain about the usefulness of this application in the fight against the pandemic. The model that is currently preferred is a Bluetooth application that does not take into account, for example, the nature of the interaction. So, if you're in a back-to-back train, there's no risk of contamination, but Bluetooth will indicate that you're close to a contaminated person or if I'm in a supermarket and there's a plexiglas, it also distorts the result and can cause false negatives like false positives. Moreover, this type of application has been set up in Austria, in collaboration with the Red Cross and following a large information campaign. But only 3 to 4 per cent of the population use this application, while membership of at least 60 per cent of the population is required for this tool to have an effect, as stated by Minister De Backer. He himself stated on a television show that the application was not necessary. But I am not going to spread over all the limits of the use of such an application. I would like to say that, until now, we have no scientific certainty as to its effectiveness, whereas there are many reports in the opposite direction. Colleagues, if an application were to come into being, it would first have to follow up on legislation in the form of a bill, so that the government could justify why it would implement it, and enumerate the contributions of that application in the fight against the pandemic. This will also allow a democratic debate in this Parliament, involving experts, the Human Rights League, privacy bodies, the front-line health sector and all the actors on the ground, who are best placed to judge the relevance of such an approach. Their comments and recommendations should be taken into account. I would add that taking advantage of technological advances in the interest of public health is a good thing and can save lives, but this must be done on the basis of studies and scientific results which prove that this is indeed a step forward for public health and which guarantee the fundamental rights of the population. This requires a well-founded and well-founded text. Ladies and gentlemen, our group will support this resolution as it represents a step forward in the protection of data and privacy. But if an application were to come into being, it will have to be the subject of a justified bill that opens up a democratic debate by involving experts and actors on the ground to ensure this balance of effective implementation – to date, we do not have the proof – and useful for public health. I would add that this balance is rather delicate and we must take both aspects into account. In order for an application or any technological tool to be effective in a struggle as we know it today, they must accompany a series of field measures. We cannot rely on an application as we lack protective equipment and testing. First of all, we must provide the tools necessary for the actors on the ground to fight this epidemic, and then the technological tool will have to accompany all these efforts. We will vote in favour of this resolution, but we will remain vigilant with regard to the establishment of a tracing application.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u186	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has already been said about what is in that resolution, so I would like to say in general what this is about today and, above all, what the role of Parliament might be in it. I would therefore like to take you to an Italian restaurant in Manhattan where at some point there is a billionaire, Mr Catsimatidis. He sees his daughter come in with an unknown man. Like any concerned father, he is surprised and asks the waiter to take a picture of that lady and that gentleman with his smartphone. The waiter does that and then the billionaire with an app on his phone can see through facial recognition who that strange man is and send his biography to his daughter, who is naturally surprised by that. I see some of you think this might be a very useful app. This is not a fictional example, it is something that happened not so long ago. The billionaire is very close to the founder of Clearview, a company that deals with facial recognition. This is an interesting example because it shows what we are talking about here today and what our Parliament should do. Technology is not standing still, and these issues are coming at us. We can do two cases. Either we wait until someone in this hemisphere has such an app and we will ask ourselves whether we like it so much, or we sit around the table and decide together what we want as a society, what agreements we want about these things. That's what we did here. We have struck a balance between three things. First of all, technology. There's a lot to do today. Secondly, the social needs. Today is the corona crisis. We want to prevent the spread of that virus. That was the emergency in this case. Thirdly, our constitutional rights. In this case, the most important thing is privacy, as has been said a few times. We have made this assessment with colleagues in order to arrive at this framework. Mrs. Pas, I just heard you say a launch speech off the app. That's not what's happening here. What we have done is to agree together on what matters we want and when the app gets there what we want it to look like. The government is not a developer in this. The government will not develop an app, but it will perhaps later submit a law to make that possible, and then it is important that we agree what can be done. One can then do two things: stand aside, say that privacy is very important, but do nothing, or try to search together for a common framework. We have succeeded reasonably well, with a fairly limited number of amendments. That framework is ahead of us today. Why is that framework so important? It is especially important for the sake of the expensive word has already fallen a few times our privacy. When it comes to privacy, I am always disturbed by the platinums that are used in it. One throws out the fact that everything about us is already known. Then why should we go to all this trouble? For someone else, they can know everything about him or her, because he or she has nothing to hide. That is not the point, however. Privacy is primarily about the individual right and the individual freedom to decide for themselves what is and what is not told to someone else: what books someone likes to read and what he or she tells friends about; what books someone has read, but what books he or she prefers not to tell; what kind of phone someone has; what people are talking about here, and where he or she was. Some things people want to tell and others don't. It is that freedom that we want to protect with this resolution. If we have to learn one thing from the current corona crisis, then it is one of the worst things that exists. There are many things today, of which we only know today how important they are to us because we cannot or cannot do them anymore. That is the important element of freedom. It is only when we lose that freedom that we realize why it is so important. For me, therefore, the resolution before us is an important symbol for Parliament, which demonstrates what Parliament is capable of. Today it's about the corona app that might see the light of day. On that point, I agree with Mrs Pas, who wonders whether or not the app will work. I can't clear that up. What I can tell you is that the resolution provides a good framework within the European directives, which ensures that the app, if one were to come, works in the way that we agreed here with each other. In such cases, it will always be a question of not looking backwards but forward to the technology that is coming towards us. We are not against technology, but we sometimes have to set limits. We have done very well here. Finally, I would like to thank the members and especially the Greens who took the initiative for their good cooperation. We have made a good resolution which our group will support with great sympathy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u187	Mr President, we will support this motion for a resolution for various reasons. Moreover, when everyone speaks here, it is felt that the reasons behind the support for this resolution are not necessarily always the same. Actually, you don't have to worry about people. We're doing a virus-tracing. It has always been at the heart of health systems in relation to epidemics and communicable diseases. For many years now, we have been tracking down in Belgium, but for germs that have nothing to do with VOCID-19 in terms of speed and contagiosity. This is the case, for example, of tuberculosis – the bacillus of Koch. Annually, a thousand people are affected by Koch's bacillus in our country. As for the VOCID-19, I am not going to remind you of the figures; the dimension is totally different as are the speed and contagiosity. Of course, this cannot be an isolated device in the strategy to combat communicable diseases, and to try to control as much as possible, in this case a risk of rebound for VOCID-19, and more generally to control the transmission of germs, or here, of the VOCID-19 virus. This must of course be associated with an entire testing strategy, with tracing, with the testing of contacts, but also with the isolation of carriers, the aim being to ensure that carriers do not transmit it. It is true that isolation for a definite period is a thousand times better than what we have experienced in recent weeks with a collective and extraordinarily long confinement. What we've been through is a reduction in our sorrowful freedoms. Having effective devices to control the virus allows first and foremost to regain fundamental freedoms. The markings provided for this tracing in the motion for a resolution, as well as in the draft law on digital tracing, are extremely strong compared to those provided for manual tracing which has already been put in place at the level of the different regions. We are interested in these tags, which – I repeat – are much stronger than those that apply in manual tracing. In the latter, the data are not anonymized, contrary to what will have to be the case with digital tracing. In this case, there is no use of personal data. This is exactly the opposite of what is happening today with manual tracing. As part of digital tracing, data will have to be destroyed in a very short period of time, whereas this is not the case with manual tracing. On the occasion of digital tracing, it will not be able to cross with other databases. And especially as far as health is concerned, we will see the opposite of what is applicable in the context of manual tracing. I have heard some colleagues have doubts about the safeguards for privacy. I invite them to look at what is currently being done at regional level. This digital tool, which will obviously only be able to expand the device to trace the virus and control it as much as possible, will have to and can be extremely marked to ensure privacy, much more – you will understand – than by using other ways of tracing. It may also be useful. Indeed, this question is constantly coming up. I would like to recall here a scientific study published by Oxford University which shows that every user of the application can prevent one to two people from becoming carriers of the virus. The only scientific reference that exists regarding the famous 60% use for effective application is to say that this percentage makes it possible to block the spread of the virus. But below this percentage, this tool also has an efficiency in controlling the speed of transmission of the virus. Ask yourself what studies would have demonstrated the effectiveness of manual contact tracing in the context of VOCID-19, you will come to the conclusion that there are none! What is the percentage of carriers that could have been detected by manual tracing today? Similarly, how quickly are we able to intervene? Look at the number of contacts made daily in Belgium compared to new cases. This number is very small! If each person has five contacts per day over the last 15 days due to the incubation period of the virus, manual tracing can only affect a few people. Similarly, we are only able to break transmission chains in a very small number of cases. These findings show us that strict beacons must be accompanied by an expanded system. I will quote the example of a 29-year-old Korean nightclubber carrying the virus. Over the course of a single night, this person attended five discotheques in Seoul and infected about 20 customers of these establishments. When the symptoms of the virus appeared in this carrier on the following Tuesday, the tracking system immediately identified and tested the people he had approached, which would never have been possible with a manual tracking system. The tests were then extended to second-class people who had been in contact with many others in the meantime. Within four days, no fewer than 64 positive cases could be identified and contained from a single case. If you apply a manual tracking system to the example I have just given you, you are unable to highlight only one of the carriers that had yet been contaminated and you are unable to isolate them. You find yourself with exponential curves as is the case with VOCID-19, with an extremely rapid situation in terms of contagiosity. I do not plead for the Asian system – here the markers are very clear at the level of the text and in the bill – but examples such as this one, without necessarily going to a night club, there are every day in Belgium. And, in the coming weeks, both because of the debunking and more probably after the summer with the occurrence of autumn, we could end up with extremely high risks of rebound if we do not have a super effective system to control the contagiosity of the virus, based on the tracing but of course in a device combining testing and isolation of carriers. In an ideal world, we would all prefer to do without it, but in a world where we must be effective in protecting the whole population and in a much stricter way, much more privacy-friendly than what we do today in terms of manual tracing, I think we have no choice but to have more powerful tools, such as digital tracing. Mr President, we will have the opportunity to discuss this again in the coming weeks with the return of the Council of State on the texts sent both on the Sciensano database linked to manual tracing but also on the proposal for a law on digital tracing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u188	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the authors of this motion for a resolution, not only for their confidence but also for initiating a public and transparent debate that we should have on this famous tracing. I believe that in times of crisis, it is more than essential to prevent this debate, as we have seen for weeks, from being dealt with only in the media with a lot of contradictory information, which has ultimately fed the more than legitimate fears of our fellow citizens. Today we are facing an exceptional situation, with an epidemic which, in less than three months, has contaminated nearly 56,000 people and which has caused more than 9,000 deaths in Belgium. We are therefore facing an unprecedented health crisis, which has forced us to put aside for long weeks our freedoms to come and go, to see our loved ones and to hold them in our arms, to entertain us. This crisis has also forced many of our fellow citizens to tighten their belts, to deprive themselves or even to reduce their professional activity – which they still need to live in. To stop this crisis, fortunately, we have resources and tools. Tracing is part of it. Mrs. Fonck just referred to it. Identifying sick people and warning their contacts to test them, isolate them and treat them is one of the keys not to our fight against the virus – since we will have to live with him waiting for a vaccine – but to our deconfinity, our return to a more or less normal life. Nevertheless, despite its necessity, this tracing requires us to be very cautious about how it is to be implemented. We must avoid following the path of those States, sometimes very close to us, which use the health crisis as a pretext for restricting individual rights and freedoms. Moreover, this motion for a resolution is in no way a plea for mobile application. This is not about positioning yourself for or against a mobile application that will complement call centers in our tracing strategy. For my group, it is really a matter of anticipating the debate we will have on the legal basis on which such an application will be based. Minister De Backer has repeatedly announced in committee that steps have already been taken to make it possible to operationalize such an application as soon as possible. In addition, a bill has just been tabled by some of my colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, let us never lose sight of the fact that this tool is, whether we like it or not, a clear infringement of our right to privacy. As such, article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights and article 22 of our Constitution are very clear. Of course, the right to privacy – like other fundamental rights and freedoms – is not absolute and can be limited, but on very strict conditions: this limitation must be provided for in the law, but must also be necessary for the protection of our health. As a result, until a legal basis has been adopted to implement this famous mobile application, we cannot formally engage in this process. This legal basis is all the more essential since our privacy is the very condition of our other freedoms, but also a guarantee of protection against possible discrimination. It is also essential because the data that are processed as part of the tracing are medical data, data relating to our state of health. In other words, sensitive data, the processing of which can only be justified in exceptional circumstances, clearly defined and under very strict control by the Data Protection Authority, but also by the BIM State Security Commission in particular. I would like to thank the colleagues who supported my amendment in committee, which was intended to mention the sensitivity of these data, but also the consequences of this in the development of a potential mobile application. The manual tracing operated by call centers set up a few weeks ago has already shown its limits. How can we remember and know the exact identity of the people we've met in the last 15 days? How can we determine if these people have stayed with us for more or less fifteen minutes? We can discuss a mobile application that would not present these disadvantages but provided that its future legal basis meets precisely and at least the benchmarks set out in our motion for a resolution, which are requested by the experts heard in committee. First, there is its temporary use, which would be limited to the current context of the health crisis. The representative of the State Security confirmed that if the use of the application was no longer justified in the light of epidemiological developments or, more generally, if the legal conditions were no longer complied with, the BIM Committee as well as the R Committee could suspend or even impose the cessation of its use. Other guarantees are the non-commercialization of data, the anonymization of these data, the use of the mobile application which would be designed as a tool at the service of the population in order to warn it of a possible infection, in other words, certainly not to monitor compliance with social distancing or quarantine measures. But again, the definitive deletion of data, except for the use of data in aggregate and anonymous form, for scientific research. These are cumulative conditions, i.e., the government will only be able to predict the use of a mobile application if all of these conditions are met. We will be intransigent about the fulfilment of all these conditions. Indeed, it is only like this that a legal basis that implements a mobile application will achieve the difficult and necessary balance between, on the one hand, the preservation of our fundamental freedoms and our privacy and, on the other hand, the preservation of our health, which is also a fundamental right. This is also how we will ensure the very effectiveness of this system, because without all these safeguards, citizens will not have the necessary confidence in this application, which they themselves will have to install. Indeed, this approach, fortunately indeed, is voluntary. In the absence of such confidence in the system, it is well known that the system will simply not be effective, or the social pressure that will be exerted on the recalcitrants will be such that the system will no longer be truly voluntary. It is, therefore, because this motion for a resolution defines all of these beacons that we have co-signed it and we will logically support it. We all know that a bill to provide a legal framework for a possible mobile application has been tabled and will be considered very shortly on the basis of the opinions given on it. I therefore take advantage of the debate we have today to call on you to be very cautious about this text. Firstly, we should first of all reflect, as some of my colleagues have said, on the very principle of using a mobile application rather than another system. The Human Rights League has been very clear on this point. We need to measure the technical effectiveness of the systems, but also the impact on privacy of the various possible alternatives. All alternatives need to be explored, in order to minimize the intrusiveness of such applications in our privacy, of course, but also in terms of its effectiveness. We cannot deny that people in situations of great insecurity, but also the elderly who are most at risk from this coronavirus, and who are therefore the most protected people, will not know or very difficult to use this application. Secondly, we must bear in mind that this system is not the panacea. It is part of a whole that must be accompanied by a real strategy in terms of masks and screening. This strategy must be admitted, at present, is still far from optimal. Again this weekend, epidemiologists Yves Coppieters and Emmanuel André, who is now in charge of coordinating our tracing strategy, recalled that our testing capacity was largely underused. It follows that we are certainly not able to test any asymptomatic person who should nevertheless be detected because his tracing would have found it useful. I therefore appeal to the government to redouble its efforts to make this testing fully effective in the current criteria as well as in the criteria that need to be expanded today. Thirdly, the voluntary nature of the application must involve the free and informed consent of the user. In other words, it will be necessary to ensure that any user will have all the information that allows him to accurately capture what he is committed to by having this application installed. Every citizen must be able to know exactly what is being done with his or her data and for what purposes. Finally, I must insist on one point contained in this motion for a resolution which calls on the government to work closely with the federated entities. The Regions cannot be expected to assume the modalities of this mobile application without having been at least involved upstream on the legal basis that makes it possible. Indeed, if the implementation of this application falls within the competence of the federated entities and in particular the Regions, the federal government must intervene upstream, by adopting a legal framework enabling these federated entities to assume their powers. The federal government had this obligation to order masks and medical equipment and to test in communities. The same is true today with regard to tracing. Our deconfinity is finally done this way. It can only work if it gains the confidence and support of all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u189	Mr President, I know that your patience has already been put to the test today, so I am trying to keep it concise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u190	Not by you, Mr. Soors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u191	I would also like to express my solidarity with colleagues. About two months ago, in this hemisphere, Minister De Backer said quite clearly and unexpectedly that there would be an app in the fight against corona. That announcement was the impetus for my group to start writing the resolution. So let me begin by expressing my thanks to the co-subscribers, to the colleagues who contributed to the text in committee, to everyone for the rich and important debate that we have had in the meantime in Parliament on this subject. It has already been mentioned: this resolution is not in itself a plea for an app, but if that app comes in, it must meet the highest possible standard regarding the guarantee of privacy and the protection of personal data. It's that bar we set with this resolution and it's high. This is also apparent from all the opinions of experts we have heard and from the various opinions that have been sought. Moreover, these guarantees of privacy and data protection are crucial, just for the trust of the people who should use this app if necessary. I say "must," but of course I always mean voluntary use. Only the provisions of the resolution will enable us to earn the confidence of the people if such an app were to come, not by standing on the sidelines and pointing to possible pitfalls. It has already been mentioned, among other things by Mr Vanden Burre, that the guiding principle of the resolution is privacy first. That indeed means voluntary use of the app. That means a decentralised data storage, not an omniscient server. That means technology based on bluetooth, which can measure someone's proximity, but doesn't know someone's location. This also means the temporary nature of the app itself, as well as the data collected with the app. This also means at all times in the app's own model and the way in which it is operated, striving for the greatest possible openness and transparency. The audit, as described in the resolution, is a logical consequence of this. We shall therefore not support the amendment in question, for the same reasons as those mentioned in the committee. Meanwhile, the exit strategy is slowly but surely rolled out in the country. Sufficient test capacity, clear guidelines on quarantine, public health that always primes, the use of all possible means in the fight against corona, are paramount. This is the essential broader framework of the exit strategy, in which a discussion on the possible advent of an app should also be pursued. New debates are coming to us. Next week the bill on manual tracing and the bill on digital tracing will be on the agenda. With this resolution, we have drawn attention to the importance of privacy in these debates. Our group will continue these debates, with the colleagues we have already worked with, with the same constructive tone but also with the same vigilance. Privacy in the protection of personal data is an individual human right. It's a fundamental freedom. It's a fundamental right. By adopting this resolution, Parliament takes its full responsibility, as it should be. We should never go for less. I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their input and for this resolution, which will be adopted shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u192	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u193	Request 1.v/Demande 1.v
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u194	The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u195	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 1172: Leen Dierick, Steven Matheï, Jef Van den Bergh, Egbert Lachaert, Kathleen Verhelst, Benoît Friart, Florence Reuter - 1183: Egbert Lachaert, Kathleen Verhelst.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u196	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u197	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 23 April our President of the Chamber asked the Council of State for an opinion on this proposal within five working days. A bill submitted by the colleagues of Open Vld was merged with the present bill. Proposal No. 1172 was taken as the basis for the further discussion. Mrs Dierick pointed out in committee that the legislative proposal had three concrete objectives, namely a temporary easing of registration in the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises, the postponement of the start of summer solders and, finally, a suspension of sales for the duration of the closure of retail outlets. In the general discussion, Mrs Van Bossuyt indicated that she was in favour of a number of measures, but had reservations about the proposal to postpone the start of summer solders. It was also indicated that traders could use a push in the back. In online sales, there will already be a lot on offer in July, when the solders are postponed according to the proposal, which may have a negative impact on e-commerce, as people will be less inclined to move to business. It was also indicated that border trade should certainly be taken into account. The Flemish Interest Group has stated that the issues raised by the solders have long affected the group, given the interplay with Minister Muylle and the subsequent motion of recommendation. The Flemish Interest Group tabled amendments, inter alia, to extend the solder period by two weeks. The Flemish Interest Group indicated that it would approve the bill. Mr Patrick Prévot of the PS pointed out that the sector must quickly know where it stands. Within the MR Group, Mr Friart indicated that he would approve the bill and Mrs Reuter pointed out that the proposed measures are very important to allow the small self-employed to continue to cope with the impact of the coronavirus. Like other colleagues, she fears that consumers will get used to buying online and therefore in the future the classic shops will be left out. Binnen of sp.a-fractie... There is a lot of fuss, Mr President. There's a lot of fuss in the room.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u198	You have a point. We're almost at the end of our work...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u199	But that is no less important, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u200	I would therefore like to draw the House's attention to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u201	For the rest, the sp.a group indicated in particular that it would not support the abolition of the barrier period. The cdH endorsed this, but considered that the premiums given at other policy levels to support traders have been too long waiting for them and also asked questions about the whole e-commerce business. Ecolo-Groen advocated, through Gilles Vanden Burre, a wide range of measures to support local trade and saw this bill as part of it. He also opposed the abolition of the barrier period. Open Vld, through Mr Verhelst, defended the measures, but felt that we should separate the whole debate from e-commerce. The Group has also tabled an amendment to postpone the winter solders. There are a number of amendments by Mrs Dierick to respond to the comments made by the Council of State. There are also two amendments of the Flemish Interest. Mrs Verhelst has tabled an amendment to postpone winter sales. Finally, there are two amendments by Mrs Van Bossuyt and Mrs Houtmeyers, both from the N-VA, to abolish the barrier period. In the vote of name, the proposal is accepted unanimously by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u202	Mr Van Lommel, you are apparently also registered for the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u203	Mr President, like perhaps other colleagues in the hemisphere, my phone is very frequently red-hot, because traders are asking me if the retail trade will still exist after tomorrow. The retail sector was already suffering from a number of problems before the corona crisis. Witness to this is the emptiness in many cities and municipalities. The Committee repeatedly discussed the changed consumer's buying behaviour, which deals much more with the offer via e-commerce. In addition, larger chains are now increasingly in financial difficulties. We recognise the need for action and it has been taken by Parliament, which we have always supported. But it takes a lot more than that. I do not need to remind you of my numerous motions of recommendation in response to my interplays to protect our companies and our entrepreneurs, including my retailers. On the solders too, Minister Muylle, the Flemish Interest Group, and I had to observe in committee that the need to postpone the solders was initially denied. Later on, the Minister changed his mind and Mr Lachaert also announced in the newspaper that the solders would be best delayed. I can only encourage that moving insight. I am particularly charmed by the trifleness of the proposal. It is indeed interesting that an exception is provided for the mandatory change in the Crossroads Bank of Enterprises (CBO). In this way, the creativity of entrepreneurs can be fully exploited during the corona crisis. Entrepreneurship equals creativity. Let us now use the creativity of the traders to get through the crisis. Let them make the freedom of enterprise a reality and keep as many people at work as possible. That can indeed be done in the proposed way. The suspension of the sale, which guarantees the five-month period for a sale, will certainly be welcomed by the traders. Furthermore, the Flemish Interest Group is in favour of the summer solders and has always supported this. For the coming summer solders we would have liked to have seen the period extended by two weeks in order to increase the chance that the spring and summer stocks that are not sold now will get out. As far as the period of validity is concerned, the debate was held in committee and I am glad that the amendments were not finally accepted. The debate must be hygienic; its discussion did not fit in with that of the present legislative proposal and must take place at another time. With regard to Open Vld's proposal to postpone the winter solders for a month in 2021, we would, of course, prefer not to see that, and that is what we said during the debate. We have tabled amendments to find a compromise in the event of a delay until February and to move the solders to mid-January. However, that debate will have to be held later and the subject is no longer part of the legislative proposal. I believe that the legislative proposal before us is good and balanced and we can support it for 200 percent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u204	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, every step taken to help traders, SMEs, and, of course, our independents, to raise their heads after the long weeks of confinement that we have just experienced is a measure that must of course be supported. Others will come, I'm sure. I would also like to take this opportunity to stress the areas that are still on hold, such as the Horeca, which must not be, and will not be, forgotten - is it not, minister? The text before us today is crucial for the financial survival of traders. It includes important support measures for those who had to suspend or modify their activities during the crisis. The first measure is a temporary relaxation of registration at the Banque-Carrefour des Entreprises. This means that traders who wish to temporarily engage in another activity are not required to request a change in their registration with the ECB. This is a temporary exception. Take the example of a restaurant that prepares take-out dishes or delivers at home, or a retailer who temporarily sets up an activity in e-commerce. That will help them, at least temporarily. The second measure - Mr.Minister, you mentioned it at the end of March - is the postponement of the date from the beginning of the summer balances to August 1. It was a demand from the vast majority of the commerce sector, according to a study of the associations of the middle and independent classes - the UCM in the south of the country and UNIZO in the north. In particular, the fashion and clothing sectors have been severely affected. It is essential to allow them to have sufficient time to dispose of their stocks at normal prices before the balances. Otherwise, it is simply not financially viable. Most of them have already paid their suppliers, but they have not returned since March. This carry-over of the balances should help them to hold on financially. Finally, the third measure still concerns shops and retail outlets, which have closed for a long time during the crisis and throughout this period of containment to prevent the spread of the virus. There, it is proposed to suspend the sale in liquidation for the duration of its closure. It is therefore three useful measures that we obviously strongly support, since my group has co-signed this text, which should give a little air to the shops. They are key players in our economy and also in local life in our communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u205	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed the hospitality sector in great detail here today, but fashion is also a sector seriously affected by the corona crisis. Before summer sales could really start, it was decided in March to close shops and businesses to prevent the spread of the COOVID-19 virus. Many clothing stores tried to sell clothes and shoes via an already existing webshop. Other shops didn't have a webshop yet, but because of the corona crisis they started a webshop to sell their products. Many local shops also became active on social media, which is a positive trend. We must support such entrepreneurship and creativity. We also note that consumers are finding their way to e-commerce. That too is a positive evolution. Let us, above all, encourage this and hope that consumers on the Internet will "shop here" and not be tempted by Internet giants. Despite all this, we all know that this cannot make up for the loss that has been made. Many shops had just purchased their collection and have to pay their suppliers at a time when they have little or no income. Last week the start was given for the reopening of the shops. It is therefore important that they can open the doors and that we give them extra time to offer and sell their large stock of clothes and shoes at normal prices. That is why many traders, and certainly many small self-employed people, are asking for the summer solders to be postponed, in order to get extra breathing space. Hence our proposal to postpone the summer solders this year and move them to 1 August. The solders will then take place from 1 to 31 August, preceded by a barrier period starting on 1 July instead of 1 June. In addition, as the other speakers have already mentioned, our legislative proposal provides for a temporary relaxation for registration in the FBO. This relaxation reduces the administrative and financial burden on our companies, who temporarily want to carry out their activities differently due to the corona crisis. I am thinking, for example, of a restaurant that now prepares take-away meals or supplies at home. We must not be afraid of such creativity by red tape. Colleagues, shifting the solder period is a one-off measure. In committee there were also proposals to extend the solder period or to move the winter solder period. We are not in favour of this at the moment. However, we are in favour of a global debate on the perimeter and the solder period as a whole. We find that the seasons are shifting. We also note that the barrier period is being bypassed massively. As far as we are concerned, such adjustments require a much more thorough debate. However, first things first: today we are focusing on the current crisis and proposing a postponement of the summer solders of 2020. In any case, I would like to thank all the committee members for their excellent cooperation. I would also like to thank Mr Van Lommel for his very comprehensive report. However, Mr van Lommel, one point is not correct in your speech. I can certainly assure you that Minister Muylle fully supports the principle of postponing the solders. She now supports it and has confirmed it in response to a parliamentary question that you have asked. At the same time, she replied that she would welcome a postponement, but that she would like to leave the initiative to Parliament. We are, of course, very grateful for that. The truth, however, has its rights. Thank you, therefore, for your cooperation in committee. I hope that the bill will once again receive your unanimous support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u206	Mr President, I would simply like to thank Parliament, which is about to vote for this vital decision for our businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u207	That was an excellent exercise in succinctness! Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u208	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1172/8) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1172/8) The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u209	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u210	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of April 16, 2020, the group chairmen were asked to nominate candidates for the position of member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Centre for the Expertise of Health Care (in place of Ms Nathalie Muylle). In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 16 April 2020, the group chairmen were asked to nominate candidates for the post of member of the Executive Board of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre (in place of Ms Nathalie Muylle). The following applications were submitted: - M. Jan Bertels (sp.a) - Mme Kathleen Depoorter (N-VA). The following applications were submitted: - Mr Jan Bertels (sp.a) Mrs Kathleen Depoorter (N-VA). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 May 2020, I propose that you proceed, in a forthcoming plenary session, to the appointment of the member who will sit on the Board of Directors of the Federal Centre for Health Care Expertise. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 May 2020, I propose that you proceed to the appointment of the member of the Management Board of the Federal Health Knowledge Centre at a subsequent plenary session. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u211	The government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the bill confirming the Royal Decree of 17 May 2019 amending the Royal Decree of 18 February 2005 laying down the mandatory contributions to be paid to the Budget Fund for the Health and Quality of Animals and Animal Products, Milk Sector and the Royal Decree of 8 July 2019 amending the Royal Decree of 13 November 2011 fixing the fees and contributions due to the Budget Fund for Raw Materials and Products, No. 1253/1. The Government requested the urgency statement pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law ratifying the Royal Decree of 17 May 2019 amending the Royal Decree of 18 February 2005 establishing the compulsory contributions to the Budget Fund for the health and quality of animals and animal products, dairy sector and the Royal Decree of 8 July 2019 amending the Royal Decree of 13 November 2011 establishing the fees and contributions to the Budget Fund for Raw Materials and Products, No. 1253/1 I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u212	Mr President, I do wish to ask for urgency on behalf of the government for this project. This project incorporates a series of provisions in favour of SMEs and all of the government's proposals for tax support for SMEs and all sectors hit hard during this period of crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u213	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u214	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I also propose that you take into account and refer to the committee responsible: the bill (MM. Philippe Tison, Christophe Lacroix, Patrick Prévot and Malik Ben Achour, Mrs Ludivine Dedonder and Mr Eliane Tillieux and Mr Ahmed Laaouej) to combat abuses related to outstanding balance insurance proposed under consumer credits, No 1265/1. I would also suggest that you consider and send to the committee responsible: the legislative proposal (Mr Philippe Tison, Mr Christophe Lacroix, Mr Patrick Prévot and Mr Malik Ben Accour, Mrs Ludivine Dedonder and Mr Eliane Tillieux and Mr Ahmed Laaouej) to combat abuse of balance-of-debt insurance offered by consumer credit, No. 1265/1. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I also propose that you take into account the proposal for a law (Mr Jan Bertels) granting a temporary supplement to the primary incapacity allowance, No 1274/1. I also propose that consideration be given to the legislative proposal (Mr Jan Bertels) granting a temporary supplement to the benefits for primary incapacity for work, No. 1274/1. What the bill No. Mr Bertels (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. We have not had a Conference of Presidents today. Normally, a bill has to pass through the Conference, but since we have not had a Conference, Mrs Kitir has directed me to ask if it could then be sent directly to the plenary. I would not like that to be a precedent, but since there is no meeting tomorrow and she has not been able to do it sooner, I suggest that the legislative proposal should simply be added to the list of recitals. No precedent. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u215	Mr De Smet, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1259/1 amending the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 on unemployment regulation in order to provide significant support in the context of the COOVID-19 pandemic approach to those professionally active in the cultural and creative industries.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u216	Mr. Chair, this bill is intended to help those in the cultural world affected by the VOCID-19. Yes, it's the third of the kind, but it has an added value. It proposes provisions in particular to immunize the status of artist until March 2021, but I believe that it would adequately complement the work already under way in the Committee on Social Affairs. In view of its nature, I ask for the urgency of this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u217	Mr President, there has also been an urgent need for texts with the same purpose. It is sufficient to attach this proposal in such a way that it can also benefit from urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u218	You want to join the texts, Mr. Laaouej. It's not necessary to go around. I see that you have convinced us and that the urgency is acquired. We are generous today, Mr De Smet!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u219	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1265/1 to combat abuses related to outstanding balance insurance under consumer credit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u220	That's right. We note that during the period of VOCID-19, some take advantage of it to contract out balance insurances due to people who have consumer credits. That is why we want the urgency of this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u221	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u222	Mrs Kitir, you are asking for the urgency of the bill No. 1274/1 by Mr Bertels granting a temporary supplement to primary incapacity for work. This is the legislative proposal that we have just considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u223	Mr President, it is a supplement to the benefit of the disabled. The Group of Ten agrees to take action in this corona crisis for disabled persons as well. That is why we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u224	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u225	Mr President, you have just made our proposal (No. 1239) on the reform of criminal procedure. That is a very heavy piece, prepared by several academics in that legal domain. I think it is appropriate that the Council of State should consider this within the time limit that is possible for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u226	So it's about a rather substantial piece of work by academics. It seems useful to me to know the opinion of the Council of State. You say there is no urgency, but it is an important document. Does everyone agree that we should ask for the advice of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u227	We didn't hear what you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u228	Mr Verherstraeten, try again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u229	Mr President, it is with great pleasure. The Bill No. 1239/1, which has just been considered, aims to introduce a new Code of Criminal Procedure to shorten, simplify and improve the efficiency of criminal proceedings. It is a large piece of work of a few hundred pages, which has been worked by several criminal law specialists across the country. I think it is appropriate that the Council of State should consider this within the time limit that is possible for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u230	Does everyone agree that for the proposal No. 1239/1 the opinion of the Council of State is requested? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u231	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u232	Mr President, of the millions of Belgians who subscribed to consumer credit, more than 334,000 were in default before the crisis. This figure represents so many households that find each morning the ball in the belly for fear of bad news by opening their mailbox, a feeling that the crisis only reinforces. The situation is extremely difficult for all these families, so a bill in this regard was required. Having said that, it is with some bitterness that we are going to vote for this text. Indeed, the original text has been amended in committee, and the current version minimizes its social scope. Furthermore, when the text was presented in plenary last week, the right-wing parties proposed an amendment to further minimize the scope of this bill. I don't know if what revolts me most in this situation is to see parties disconnected from reality to such an extent that they consider that 50 euros do not represent anything, or the contempt they display for these households and precarious people. I wanted to express this revolt on behalf of my group in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u233	Mr President, this bill tabled by my group, as you can see, is finally coming to fruition. In this connection, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Lacroix, who has worked to make things happen, but I also refer to his speech last week, which deplored and even denounced the amendment tabled by some of you to allow the application of this law only for repayments of more than EUR 50. Mr. Lacroix, rightly, reminded us of the lack of awareness of social realities. Think especially of those families who have to buy a computer from their child because he is in confinement, because he is doing his homework remotely and he needs a laptop or another model, no matter what! In most cases, the monthly payment is less than 50 euros. These are the people you penalized with your amendment. Nevertheless, we have made some progress, but I really regret the attitude of some who ignore social realities. Of course we will vote in favour of the text, but we regret the amendment that you tabled and voted on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u234	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 145 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the legislative proposal, as amended. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1155/10) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill, as amended. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1155/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u235	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 148 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1178/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1178/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u236	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 107 Yes No. [[40]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1177/7) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1177/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u237	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 105 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 149 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1138/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1138/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? (Mrs Leen Dierick, like her group, voted)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u238	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 31 by Michael Freilich cs on request 1.V. (1182/7) Vote on Amendment No 31 by Michael Freilich cs on application 1.V. (1182/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[25]] Yes No. 124 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 149 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u239	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 130 Yes No. [[18]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1182/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. It will be brought to the attention of the government. (1182/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u240	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 148 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1172/9) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1172/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u241	Vote on Amendment No 200 by Kathleen Depoorter cs to insert an article 18/2(n). (1174/10) Vote on Amendment No 200 by Kathleen Depoorter cs to insert an Article 18/2(n). (1174/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 44 Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 149 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u242	Vote on Amendment No 195 by Peter Mertens cs to insert an article 28/1(n). (1174/10) Vote on amendment No 195 by Peter Mertens cs to insert an article 28/1(n). (1174/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 33 Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 147 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u243	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 137 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 149 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1174/11) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1174/11) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-20-55-plenair-ip041x.u244	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. I expect there will be some changes to that agenda. What isn't can still come. Does everyone agree to the provisional agenda? No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. Good night and good weekend! I wish you a good Rerum Novrum, Mr Verherstraeten. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, May 28, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 28 May 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
