ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u1	Good morning, everyone. I hope everyone can hear me. Welcome to all those who are in their office, at home or elsewhere. We'll start this session a little special. I hope you're all in good health, as well as your family and loved ones. Before I begin the meeting, I would like to thank the services of the House who have worked hard to make this committee meeting possible in these particular and difficult circumstances. Also welcome to Minister De Block. Minister De Backer must also join us, but I propose that we begin to avoid wasting time. As you know, the scheduled time for this committee meeting was two and a half hours. He had to be reduced to two hours because of the kern that was advanced. As chairman of this committee, I regret that, since we have almost 100 questions introduced by the various groups. We understand that the situation is not easy in times of crisis, but it is still essential that our democracy can be exercised. I think I can express the opinion of several Members when I say that I think it is important that Parliament should continue to exercise its control over the executive. Ministers must be given time and time to do so. For this reason, I do not think it is so obvious that a nuclear cabinet should take precedence over parliamentary control work, especially since the government now has special powers, which means that parliamentary work has already been considerably reduced at legislative level. To take up the remarks of one of our colleagues, we must be careful not to put an end to parliamentary work. For the rest, I suggest that you do not waste time discussing these working conditions now. I know that the situation is difficult for everyone, especially for parliamentarians who are often very busy in their communal office, as well as for ministers. In any event, this item will be submitted to the Conference of Presidents, with the aim of enabling everyone to ask their questions. It seems that the minister will normally be available next Tuesday afternoon to continue the debate which cannot be closed today. But I suggest that you discuss the continuation of our work after the sitting itself. It was agreed that each minister would have 10 minutes for an introductory presentation and a comprehensive response to all the questions asked. Each political group will also have 10 minutes. If we total the allotted time, it's been a little over two hours. I therefore ask each member to avoid monologues and repetitions, but also not to be too long so that everyone can speak. Further questions may then be introduced if the decision is taken to continue the debate next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we take part in three or four meetings of the nuclear cabinet a day, because I am faced with the sanitary crisis in three different departments. We are taking action on social affairs and we are taking action on asylum and migration. In addition, there is the meeting of the ordinary nuclear cabinet, which decides on the general sanitary situation and also makes all the other decisions that need to be taken. I am very sorry to have to ask you to allow the sitting to take place earlier. That was possible, for which I thank you. Next week we will see how we can avoid such situations. In any case, you will now be able to meet for two hours and a half. It is important that Parliament continues to do its job in these difficult circumstances. That said, we continue to communicate the current figures on a daily basis, even on weekends, by means of a press release. Today you could see that there are still a large number of deaths to be regretted, but also that more and more patients are healing leaving our hospitals and that the curve has been on a plateau for several days. We hope that it will begin to decline at some point. Even at the highest level of the curve, we remain well below the maximum capacity in our country, both in terms of hospital beds and care in the intensive departments. Flatten the curve was designed precisely to avoid too many people getting into our hospitals in too short a time. We are indeed working very hard in our hospitals, in home care and in the residential care centres in order to provide the best possible care for patients there. The measures we have taken in the field of hygiene and social discrimination have been taken much faster than in most other countries. As a result, our exponential increase has quickly begun to subside. We are very pleased with that. This is also measured by Philippe De Backer, in a collaboration in which the data are evaluated. The majority of our people take the measures seriously and follow them up. Our health care is of very good quality, both through the use of staff, through the infrastructure and through the networks that were forming. Because of this there is a solid base and we were able to switch very quickly. In some countries it became painfully clear that it was not possible to give the necessary care to all patients who were in hospital. We wanted to avoid that problem. We want everyone who needs care because of corona or other things to be helped. Thanks to the hard work done by many in hospitals, the safe capacity was increased very quickly when we switched to the emergency plans. We have also put in place a performance monitoring to prevent hospitals from getting into trouble and to be able to target patients. In this way, we avoid someone lying in a hallway somewhere, because there is no fully-fledged room available. Now it's time to hold on. If there are infringements of the measures, which must be strictly monitored, then we see their effects 10-12 days later in our hospital occupation. It is a major sanitary crisis, perhaps the worst since the Second World War. It was also unpredictable, because at the beginning of December 2019 no one had heard of COVID-19 and three months later the virus is present everywhere in the world and it strongly influences daily life. It has surprised us, not only because of its speed, but also because of its contagious and deadly character, and because it affects people of every age and especially the most vulnerable. On the positive side, we have taken measures very quickly which have a major impact on our social life, our daily life and our family life, but which were needed to stay out of the danger zone that we had defined. There's a lot of questions. That's normal. People ask whether we shouldn't have done that sooner, later, or not. An evaluation of this can be made later. For the measures taken, we have always been able to rely on the advice of our scientific experts. They also say that it is a new virus and that they have learned every day how the virus can best be dealt with. This government has followed their advice. It is not easy, it is a thin line between taking measures and avoiding panic among the population, yet making people aware of the need to adapt everyone's behavior, while there is ever-increasing insight from new scientific research, both on research into a vaccine and on the follow-up of the virus. That is a fine line and we must maintain the balance. A lot of questions have been put and I will go over them in general. From the start of the crisis, we have focused on three issues. That was, first of all, changing habits, such as reducing contacts, keeping more hand hygiene and distance, to try to reduce the number of infections and thus to reduce the curve. We have also organised a lot of awareness in this area. A second priority was to obtain the appropriate protective equipment. This was a real challenge because, as time goes on, there has been a great deal of scarcity in international markets. In view of his training, colleague Philippe De Backer was kind enough to take on the task force, which means a huge job. Thirdly, we wanted to prepare our health care for a worst case scenario. This meant increasing capacity in our hospitals but also outside, drawing up a distribution plan to relieve the burden of intensive services and building a reserve of care providers for the moment when the need would be highest, so when the care providers would also suffer. I'm gonna go a little further. We have put a great deal of work into the third element. However, that also pays off. After all, a Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee meets every day with representatives of all authorities, as well as the hospital domes, the Scientific Committee and other experts. A report of these meetings shall be drawn up. The Committee also sets out principles for the distribution of the COVID-19 patients. The group works seven days on seven to keep the capacity of beds available in our hospitals, also intensive beds and beds with repirator, and to measure that capacity each time. On the date of April 6, yesterday, 13,328 beds were still available in our hospitals, with intensive care of 56% occupied. Extra beds have been cleared. We believe that the number of people arriving at intensive care will increase for a number of days, although at present the increase is much slower than in the initial period. If a hospital has notified us of an occupation of more than 50%, we will make sure that it is ready for the next step.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u3	Madam Secretary, you have one minute left. I'll tell you, since I want to apply the timing pretty strictly for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u4	Mr President, I have agreed with my colleague, Minister De Backer, that he should limit his speaking time to five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u5	Okay, then there's no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u6	Minister De Backer and I work together day and night. In the case of an occupation of 75% or more, referral is made first within the hospital network, then in the province and then possibly outside the province. We are also doing the same for intensive care. We have asked the hospitals to suspend all non-emergency care activities so that the staff can focus on the COVID-19 patients. However, patients should not delay their care, because that would be dangerous. We have also built up a reserve of care providers. A royal decision now before the Council of State states that a number of people can be involved in medical care, with the hospital taking responsibility for the scheme. For the students there must be good framework, clear protocols and continuous supervision. We have taken steps to enable students to be involved with the necessary precautions. At doctors, psychiatrists, logopedists, physiotherapists and dentists we have included consultations by telephone or video call. A consultation by telephone or video call obviously has limitations, but the patient can start a conversation with the person who takes care of him or her. We have also provided for this possibility for diabetics, psychologists and various other professions. Home nurses were concerned that they might be infected via their e-ID reader. That obligation was lifted. Measures will be taken immediately if we are identified as having problems. I come to the advice given by the RAG and the RMG. The RMG makes a proposal as to what the priority groups are to test. Wijzigingen gebeuren as and when. Mr De Backer will deal with the distribution of the types of masks. All this information can be found by any citizen or patient in the information provided by Sciensano, which is updated daily. Of course, there is also the help line that is fiercely questioned. People call there all the time. Every day there are fifty to sixty or more people there to answer questions. They are also controlled by the FOD. General hospitals and hospital providers are faced with different additional costs or a decrease in revenue compared to their usual functioning. The financial resources available to hospitals are not sufficient, particularly in terms of cash flow. For this reason, the government has just approved a legal and regulatory mechanism that will provide financial resources in order to quickly grant a cash advance to general hospitals, and to provisionally define how this advance will be allocated to hospitals. This amounts to EUR 1 billion. We have also paid a great deal of attention to mental health care, because we know that this does something to the people. And so there were also guidelines sent out regarding the importance of the mobile teams. We have also made arrangements with regard to day hospitalization in psychiatric hospitals. We have also prepared certain nomenclature numbers, in collaboration with the psychiatry, for video consultation. The RIZIV Convention for the first reimbursement of psychological care has also been adapted. This is now allowed for new patients per video and there is also an extension to the.18-year-olds and 65-plussers. We are also in contact with the patient associations. Yesterday I had a video call with La LUSS. There's a continuous line there. The questions they receive are also answered by us. We're here to help each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u7	Mr President, I will make a brief statement on the work of the past two weeks, when I took charge of the Shortages Task Force, including testing and how far we stand with it. I have already mentioned it a number of times, also in plenary, in the last two weeks we have put together a professional team of 10 buyers, with people from the FPS Health, the FPS Economy and the pharmaceutical agency around it, to streamline five main lines: the supply of medical equipment, medical devices, but also everything related to testing, together with everything related to distribution. On the basis of the plans that Mrs De Block has just outlined, we have initially tried to get an idea of the needs that exist on the ground. We have a relatively good input from the FPS Public Health. It is sometimes more difficult to understand the real needs in, for example, residential care centres, because the data to be provided from the regions are sometimes lacking. In the meantime, we have of course continued to order maximum, on various fronts. That's about masks, aprons and all kinds of materials, about medicine, about medical devices, all over the world. We have been looking for suppliers that are already active in Belgium. We have also tried to keep existing channels of suppliers open to hospitals, residential care centres or other entities. We also started looking for new suppliers. You have, of course, heard about the problems there have been with certain lottery tickets of masks. We now have a new quality control system. Before ordering, it will be examined first, on the basis of certificates or samples, whether there is evidence that the supplier has already made good deliveries and whether he is reliable. Only then will the lottery tickets be purchased. Here they are checked again. First they must be released by customs and then they will be checked again by the FPS Economy or by the pharmaceutical agency. If it turns out that the results of these initial tests are not good, the goods can undergo an additional test in a Belgian lab, to ensure that the quality of the masks we put on the market is good. At the same time, we are also looking for our own production. We are in full consultation with the medical textile industry, with factories and with pharmaceutical companies, to see if we can start a Belgian production. We are also consulting with the regions. For example, a success has already been achieved in Wallonia, where one can start one's own production in a month or two. Recently we have also made a number of other contacts to ensure that in a few weeks' time the production of surgical masks can also start in Belgium. At the same time, we are still participating in European procurement. In this way we are also trying to get as much material as possible here. I can already give you some figures, some of the results achieved over the last ten days. For us, it remains important to provide reliable equipment for front-line workers in health care. All the material is tested by the SPF Economy or AFMPS, to be sure that the material we put on the market is of quality. We receive a lot of equipment, often in millions of units. We sample the different batches from different plants to ensure that each plant is controlled and to prevent batches of masks from being placed on the market if they do not have the required quality. I'd like to give you a few more figures. In recent times, 40 million surgical masks have been ordered. Of these, 11.4 million have been delivered and 7.6 million have been distributed. I'll come back later on in the way of distribution. In addition, there are 2 million masks whose quality was insufficient to be considered a surgical mask, but which still offer sufficient protection as a protective mask. There are also 4.4 million FFP2 or FFP3 masks, of which 850,000 have been distributed. There are 13.5 million additional orders. There were also donations of over 1 million surgical masks and 130,000 FFP2 masks. It's important to mention that we're checking all those tickets right now. Last Thursday, we ordered another 25 million masks. We've reached 40 million, so we're increasing our capacity. As far as the drugs are concerned, a lot of attention is paid to the curares and the morphines. We have been able to get significant stocks over the last few days, so that there will be no problems in the hospitals in the next few weeks. We will, of course, continue to complement the strategic stock. That is not always obvious, because countries that are major manufacturers of these medicines are closing the borders today. I am thinking of India. That is where we must try to get some stocks through diplomatic channels. I'm gonna go deeper into the testing. We are at a test capacity that is currently well above ten thousand. However, there is a barrier. We have the problem that the recommendation of the Risk Management Group and the Risk Assessment Group only refers to symptomatic patients and symptomatic health care workers in hospitals. I have been insisting on extending these criteria for a week. We are in consultation with the Risk Management Group. It was also discussed at last night's Inter-Ministerial Conference. We want to be able to do more, for example, for those who are in the first line or for the most vulnerable sections of the population. I am only talking about PCR testing, something we have rolled out in cooperation with universities that have developed a protocol for that purpose. We immediately picked that up and rolled it out across other universities. In addition, biotech companies have been added, for example GIGA from Liège. A number of large pharmaceutical companies also have capacity at their disposal. So we now have a closed system to ensure that large volumes of sample names can go to the labs. There was also a discussion and a frequently recurring question about the number of wipers to perform the tests. Today there are absolutely enough of them. We have about 50,000 to 55,000 wipers in the hospitals themselves. In addition, 20,000 were brought on site this week. We still have about 3 million wipers in the pipeline that will arrive in the next few days and weeks. So we expect absolutely no problem in that regard. The circle is now completely closed, the capacity can be used to the full. In addition, we have of course also looked at other types of testing. For example, we have looked at the CT scans that can be used. Some hospitals have experimented with it, with good results. This is now also being rolled out more widely. We also investigate with two Belgian companies how to automatically detect artificial intelligence via CT scans, for example. That's what's being worked on. Another kind of tests are the antigen tests. With a Walloon company, Coris BioConcept, we quickly, in a week time, validated the tests. They are now rolling out about 2,000 to 3,000 tests a day in hospitals. They further expand their production capacity to 20,000 to 30,000. Those volumes will be on the Belgian market. At the same time, we are in the process of serological testing. Those tests still need to be validated. We have currently banned home tests and self-tests for good reasons. They're totally unreliable and very expensive. It was our choice not to give people false expectations and hope, if they tested positive or negative. The tests are not reliable at the moment. We are now validating them, in cooperation with European partners and the WHO, in order to arrive at a clear strategy. We are also already making certain orders to ensure that we have sufficient capacity when the serological tests are rolled out. That was an overview of the orders we made. Maybe we should talk about the distribution. I am a great advocate of transparency. I have also asked the regions to provide transparency on the orders they have placed and to ensure that those orders meet the RMG criteria. That seems important to me because that is how we support the whole system of health care. Through the RMG, in which the regions are represented, we can fill this as much as possible on the basis of the needs on the ground. There is still a discussion on how to do this more systematically. There is very clear communication that we are trying to maintain our health system together with all entities. So much for my introduction, Mr President. If there's any questions, I'd like to hear them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u8	Thank you, Mr De Backer. I shall now give the floor to each political group, which will be able to allocate a ten-minute speaking time to different Members. I'll send a signal every nine minutes to complete. Everyone is aware that we have to be very strict about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u9	Mr President, Minister, Minister, we have been working on the corona crisis for several months. We are not the only country that is struggling with this either. Still, the whole world has the same problem. What is striking, however, is that different countries have different approaches. There is a global problem of lack of protective material and test material. That is a fact, but still some countries have opted from the beginning to go for broad testing. Examples include South Korea, Singapore, Australia, but also Germany. They immediately opted for wide and frequent tests, and immediately took care of the necessary materials. We have not opted for this and have started with a limited test capacity. We tried to do contact tracing for a while, but we had to stop it very quickly because the test capacity could not follow. At this very moment, testing capacity has increased to potentially 10,000 tests per day, South Korea's level. However, this does not mean that our approach is the same now, because South Korea has introduced this wide-ranging testing from the beginning of the epidemic, making contact tracing feasible and allowing COOVID-19 positive people to be effectively isolated in order to prevent further spread. We have a different story now. We have a dramatic spread of COVID-19, especially in the rest homes. Only now, after the facts, can we test the residents and the care staff and isolate the infected people. Meanwhile, those people have been imprisoned in their rooms, afraid of their neighbor or neighbor, afraid of the care staff because no one knew who was infected. My main question with regard to testing is what our strategy is, now that we have the potential of 10,000 tests a day. Who's gonna get tested first? As far as I'm concerned, everyone in the rest homes needs to be tested, because that's where the most vulnerable people are. Furthermore, I hear that the Risk Management Group and the Risk Assessment Group are in the process of determining who should be further tested as a priority. I urge this to happen as soon as possible. We may have an increased test capacity, but if we don't do something about it, it's lost. Will contact tracing and isolation be done? Have those guidelines been distributed yet? Will doctors, care providers and dentists, who are potential distributors during urgent treatments, be tested at regular intervals? How many tests are currently carried out on a daily basis? Are the labs equipped for this? How are these tests currently funded?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u10	Mrs Gijbels, the translators are asking for a little lower pace.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u11	I am pleased to hear that the CT thorax is also enabled in diagnostics. I would have liked to know what the share of this is in the registrations. It's also been about antibody tests for a while to find out who's acquired immunity. It is, of course, very important to be there very early as a country. The sooner we get there, the sooner our economy can be restarted and stimulated. Of course, every country is now trying to introduce these immunity tests first. Do we have a strategy for this? Are these tests also developed and produced in our country? If not, will we be in contact with producers in order to purchase these tests as soon as possible? What's the role of examining the samples of the blood donors? Are they part of the story of phasing out the measures now in force? Is that investigation repeated at regular intervals?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u12	I would like to devote my full speaking time to the healthcare sector, because I have very often stressed the importance of better working conditions for our healthcare staff since I sat here in 2014. Working conditions could already be improved before the corona crisis, to express it euphemistically. In health care institutions an average of 1 nurse for 11 patients is available. This means that we are in the same regions as, for example, Poland, Greece and Spain. In Scandinavia there are twice as many nurses on the bed. The remuneration is also below par. In home care, for example, one gets 5 euros gross for an injection. That amount does not even cover material costs, let alone administrative costs, which I raised before the crisis. Our group therefore tabled a motion for a resolution on better working conditions for the care sector. Their problems have, of course, become even more poignant today. The lack of hands on the bed is now even greater, along with the lack of material and the underpaid. Moreover, if home nurses are now trying to tap their own material, they also have to pay usury prices and no compensation is provided for. You mentioned in your speech, Madam Secretary, that you did address the question of suspending the eID. I would really like to thank you on behalf of the sector for that. That was a practical matter which you have already met, and we are happy with that. You also touched in your introduction that there is a compensation on the way for a total amount of EUR 1 billion. What locks do you plan so that it does not become a single tissue before bleeding? Will it, for example, be a bonus for nursing or are you planning a structural improvement for the sector, not only in our hospitals, but also in home care? As far as I have heard reports on this matter, no compensation is planned for home care, although it will incur a great deal of extra costs and will make an extra effort on the ground today. In short, what additional resources do you plan for care institutions and home care? What is also a practical concern is the recognition of corona as an occupational disease. As far as I understand, that recognition doesn't apply to an independent nurse who works solo and who goes to the patients' home? Can you fix that? That concern lives on the ground, and we must always be able to treat corona as an occupational disease, especially in the home care sector, in all situations. In summary, what measures are you planning specifically for the white sector? How will you bet them and release them? Our white sector always deserves respect, but all the more so in these difficult times. I very much look forward to your translation of that respect into concrete support measures for the whole sector, from care institutions to home care.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u13	Madam Secretary, as far as medication is concerned, I read in the press this morning that the exit strategy takes into account the availability of antivirals. Will we focus on antivirals or will we continue to focus on chloroquine, antibiotics and zinc, which are less innovative but also less expensive? Is that under investigation? Will you also investigate the preventive use of chloroquine for healthcare providers? Minister De Backer, in the plenary, you replied that anaesthetics and muscle relaxants were ordered and that no shortage is expected. However, the FAGG imposed an export restriction on COVID medication. It must be reported, and for certain countries it must also be applied for. There were a number of shippings in Zaventem to the USA and to Africa. Will they then find themselves in a less appropriate timeline? You mentioned a diplomatic setting of our country in the field of other medicines, including the vaccine. What about our position on the matter? Have you taken any steps? Have you negotiated with other countries? Have you negotiated with the producers and with pharma.be? About the testing, you indicated that there is now a potential capacity of more than 10,000 tests. However, I hear from a number of labs that it is not obvious to go through the permit procedure and that a lot of capacity is still available. I have also had a conversation with a number of virologists who are wondering why we are not looking towards veterinary medicine for certain auto-vaccination techniques. I read that there are also studies on the use of plasma in patients. How big are these studies? What's their range? How do you intend to proceed with that? Also in the context of the exit strategy, certain virologists are asking why, in addition to the roll-out of PCR tests, i.e. diagnostics, we are not immediately carrying out serological tests. On the masks, I am very pleased that you have responded to the question of sitting together in order to produce mouth masks in our country. There were conference calls between a number of young entrepreneurs, your services and the Flemish regions. I, too, was present. How does the dossier go on in concrete terms? It was also suggested that we should look at the certificates of mouth masks, that studies should be set up comparing the different certificates, CNs, Ns and CEs, and at least we could become less dependent on production from abroad through our own production. Finally, I would like to address the aspect of mental health and the follow-up of chronic patients, because that seems to us to be a next point of attention. What action does the Belgian government take in this regard? The social burden on our citizens is great, especially for those who have to say goodbye to loved ones, but cannot do so as they wish, because they cannot be with their loved ones. This also applies to care providers, who perform under very high pressure. That is why I have three questions. Madam Minister, Belgium already has a high number of patients with depression who are being treated medicinally or not. Did you give instructions to the caregivers to follow those patients extra in these difficult times? The suicide rate is very high in Belgium. In the group of care providers there were already problems before the corona crisis known as burn-out and mental breakdown. How do you deal with that? How do you ensure that our care providers keep up? Do you have an action plan to ensure that our chronic patients are adequately monitored? At the moment there are many platforms between doctors and pharmacists where patients can pick up medication once without consultation, but if the current measures go into a second or third month, then that is really a focus. How will chronic patients be monitored? How will we continue to maintain our preventive medicine? Patients may not be for COVID-19, but they may be at risk for other conditions. We certainly need to take this into account in an exit strategy. Finally, I would like to join our committee chairman when he says that it is absolutely important that we, as Members of Parliament, should be able to do our job. In the most important crisis we are currently experiencing, we must be able to do our job. I therefore call for more committee meetings to be planned, including next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u14	Mr President, the Ecolo-Groen Group would like to express its gratitude to the healthcare staff. Its members are truly the beating heart of our society and we must never forget it. We also have a very moved thought for every person who hides behind the terrible statistics. Every sick, every bereaved family lives in a doubly difficult situation. That's why we're here today, Barbara Creemers from Limburg and I here: to relay the concerns of the population, and above all get answers. Yeah, we're still pretty worried about the rest of the operations. Given the timing, we will limit ourselves to really urgent issues. We hope that answers will be given. The questions come from the field, and the field is waiting for concrete answers. The first question concerns masks and is addressed to Mr. Backer. We learned through hospital federations that 10% of mask orders were reserved for strategic stocks by the federal government. We do not understand well, given the glaring lack on the ground. Is it really time to re-establish a strategic stock, when since 2015, no one had taken care of it? Every existing mask must be worn by someone who is on the ground, and must not be part of a strategic stock. We will have time later to evaluate new modalities and replenish a stock. The second question concerns the ability to test. You announced that we are deploring the capacity of 10,000 tests a day. I would add that this is a theoretical capacity. The increase in tests will only be gradual and will depend on other factors that are limiting, such as the RMG you mentioned. A very clear communication must be addressed to the public. We won't see 10,000 people tested tomorrow. That's not what's going to happen in the field. We must not make false announcements on the ground either. It is important to remain very clear on what will actually be done. You mentioned an alternative to immunity testing. I did not understand well whether it was a production capacity that was outside and had to be validated or an in-house capacity. Mr De Backer, I would like to know more about serological tests. They are extremely important as part of a phasing down strategy. The third question concerns the task force "Data Against Corona", a question which I refer to by my colleague Gilles Vanden Burre. This use of the data of our citizens raises questions in terms of respect for privacy. It should be noted, however, that the Data Protection Authority has given its green light, that the data are normally anonymised and aggregated, and finally that an ethics committee has been set up to oversee the activities of the working group. A first analysis of the data has recently been done. The next step will be to cross-check these mobility data with those of epidemiologists and the Health FPS on contamination, in order to predict the spread of the epidemic. Minister, can you provide more information on the next step to cross-check this mobility data with epidemiologists? What data is this? For what purpose? Can you give us the opinion of the Data Protection Authority and the recommendations it has made on this project? Do you confirm that this data can be used to make targeted communications? Are collaborations envisaged with BE-Alert or the municipalities? Will the ethics committee make public reports of its opinions? Finally, my last question is rather a reminder to Minister De Block. Your firm has received from the White Blouses Working Group the elements to draft an order. Partners agree to move forward. It is 400 million in the full year that needs to be mobilized specifically for nurses. These 400 million will not have to be dissolved in the billion for hospitals and we remain very attentive to this implementation, Mrs De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u15	Thank you, Mrs. H annoyance for your brevity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u16	Mr President, I naturally join with the compliments that have already been given for the beating heart of our society, in the care, inside and outside the hospital walls. I would also like to express my absolute compliments to the experts, who we see every day in the communication channels, namely Mr Van Ranst, Mr Van Gucht and Mrs Vlieghe, for what they do every day. Mrs Gijbels spoke just now about the immunity tests. I have another question concerning the strategy. What do we do with these results? What can people who are immune do more than people who are not immune? How do we deal with that? Has a strategy already been developed for if we were to get out of this lockdown and get into the exit strategy phase? There were a lot of questions about that in the press yesterday. From Limburg I also share the absolute concern about the high percentage of infected general practitioners reported today. Is there a possible explanation for this? Will there be extra attention to this primary care in the future when it comes to the distribution of masks and other materials? In the case of enlargement, I still hear about a lot of fragmentation when it comes to primary care. The family doctor's circle of Genk, As and Zutendaal was the first to set up a triage post, which later spread throughout Belgium. At the same time, I hear from different doctors different approaches. I'm still missing the federal guidelines on this. I don't see it in every doctor's office yet. Can extra bet on that? If we are hopefully past the first peak and go to the second, can we go to an even more streamlined first-line care, with triage posts, but also with the same guidelines for everyone, to the triage post or to the general practitioner? I can see that there is still a great deal of fragmentation there. Mrs De Block, you have already partly answered my third question. Can we use students? I am still reading today about residential care centres that urgently ask for extra hands, because they can't do it. On the other hand, I read that the third-year students of Hasselt University are fully involved in volunteering. Those are absolutely heartwarming stories. However, there is also a lack of a harmonised approach. I know that this is not just the competence of the federal government, that this also falls within the competence of the Länder responsible for education. How can this be streamlined? I also call for recognition of these students, even if they do so voluntarily. Perhaps they can take this with them in the form of credits or experience. Finally, I would also like to express my concern for the caregivers. They are working with a lot of adrenaline to continue to assist their patients. This is happening in hospitals but certainly also in primary care. A lot of these people are being asked. How can the government pay more attention to the people who care? In the Jessa Hospital in Hasselt a very nice project has been set up, the community support team, where proactively each healthcare provider is asked how he/she is doing, with very good results for the time being. I am concerned about small hospitals and primary care, which do not always have the capacity or the hands to organise this. I wonder if we can extend such fine and good examples, as happened in Bonheiden and Hasselt every day last week, to networks in small hospitals. After all, I am concerned about the nursing staff and I wonder if they can continue to do so. Can we make efforts at federal level to get such networks into small hospitals and primary care?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u17	Mr President, I would like to associate myself with some reflections on our work. While the management of the health crisis involves large-scale democratic control, we are given two short hours. It's about democratic indecency! But I won't go any further. In these difficult times, I would like first of all to express our support and our deepest solidarity with caregivers who are also, for many, caregivers, patients who fight against the effects of the virus and families who are affected, sometimes even bereaved. This demonstrates the vulnerability, sometimes aggravated, of some audiences, as well as the essential yet devalued role of certain professions with high social added value. I am thinking in particular of health-care workers. Federal health policy should be able to provide health care with the necessary resources. My intervention will focus on the issue of screening, then of health care institutions and the crisis budget, and finally of access to treatments and medicines. My colleagues Patrick Prévot and Hervé Rigot will return to that of the protective equipment and patients as well as the accompaniment of the caregivers. In terms of screening, we have already asked several times to be able to test on a large scale, because it is absolutely necessary. Today, however, there is still a complete blurry as to our ability to test, even after your explanations. Therefore, the virus continues to spread, masked, unchecked, despite the confinement that is imposed on us. In recent days, we have seen a slight increase in the number of tests performed, as attested by the Sciensano site. In mid-March, we were around 1500 to 2000 tests, on March 30 at 3300, on April 4 at 3400 – last figures in our possession. This is increasing, but not enough. Mr De Backer, you mentioned a target of 10,000 tests per day. Then we heard that there would be 20,000 of them. This weekend, Minister Clarinval spoke about the opportunity to move from 40 to 50,000 tests to consider deconfining. In short, figures are being issued, but they remain vague. When are we going to extend the screening tests? At what rate? Who will be affected by this extension? What are the obstacles to this possibility? If we are able to increase the number of screening tests, are the laboratories able to follow up? If not, how did you plan to increase analytical capabilities? The situation is known to be of particular concern in nursing homes. We talked about 20,000 tests available, 6,000 for Wallonia. It is known that the situation is becoming extremely critical not only for residents but also for caregivers. An interdepartmental conference was held last night. Could you tell us a little more? What are the decisions in this regard? Finally, is there any monitoring of the health care staff, not only in hospital institutions, but also in all residential or accommodation facilities, for our seniors, of course, who are a vulnerable public, but also for persons with disabilities or persons in social insecurity? If screening is extended, is systematic screening of positive caregivers planned? If so, the labour force which would be insufficient would have to be compensated. What are your ideas for answering this question? What message are you going to send more broadly? How will the containment exit be organized? You took stock of a monitoring and the capacity of hospitals in terms of beds, especially in intensive care units, with a current occupancy rate of 56%. You said that the occupancy of the beds was going to increase again in the next few days. What is your analysis of this development today? What should we expect? Hospitals have had to postpone all their non-essential activities, all their consultations, but they have a great need to be reassured about the resources that will be allocated to them to continue paying staff during the crisis. The enlarged kern of this weekend has been able to agree to guarantee hospital funding. Mrs De Block, you mentioned a billion euros which would be allocated in advance to hospitals. Will the budget of hospital funds be fully liquidated on a flat-rate basis? Can hospitals today be reassured as to the financing of the wage costs of their staff, by maintaining maximum intervention capacity and without being forced to resort to temporary unemployment? Can you already assure that these lump sum amounts will not be revised later downwards, depending on the actual activity while its cessation was partly imposed? I would quickly like to ask a few questions about medicines. Hospitals are known to be at risk of a shortage of essential medicines for the treatment of patients in intensive care such as muscle relaxants, sedatives, painkillers and curares you mentioned. Could you take a look at the situation? What specific measures have been taken by the Federal Agency to reduce the risk of shortages? What about the collaborations with the pharmaceutical industry, whose actions are expected in this health crisis? What is the status of the treatment of certain drugs? Are clinical studies underway to determine new treatments in hospitals? There is a lot of talk about chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine. What are the recommendations in this regard? Very quickly, a proposal to finish. Access to medication is known to be essential. I would like to come to access to contraception, at a time when non-essential consultations are being lifted. Could you take, like France, a measure that would allow pharmacists to deliver the contraceptive pill to women who are unable to have their prescription renewed, and allow them to do so simply on presentation of an old prescription or contraceptives that have already been delivered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u18	I would point out that the Socialist Group has a little less than three minutes left. I would like to remind members who are on video-conferencing to turn off their microphones after their speaking time in order to avoid harmful noises.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u19	Mr President, I would like to thank the Ministers for their introduction. Given the amount of time I have, I'm going to go straight to the point by asking a series of questions. Mr De Backer, thank you for your assessment of the situation. I am reminded that seven million masks, including three million FFP2 masks, would have been delivered to Belgium last Friday. These masks would still be in the test phase. Do you confirm this information? To whom will these masks be intended, which, for the time being, are in nature or, in any case, have not been delivered to the nursing staff? Could you also give me the breakdown of the masks by Region and between the care providers? It is difficult to explain that still today, some providers – I am thinking of physiotherapists, the whole paramedical sector, dentists and even home nurses – have still not received the ad hoc equipment. This situation raises questions. Could you give me a key to the distribution of these masks? Three million FFP2 masks and ten million surgical masks could also have been delivered to Belgium during the week of 30 March by a Louvieroise company, Pharmasimple, not to mention it. However, on March 29, you cancelled this order, Madam Minister. Since then, the conventions have been made public, in particular through the press, which continues to do its work. It is difficult to understand the reasons for this decision. Madam Minister, I see that makes you laugh. But can you let me know the real reasons why Pharmasimple's offer was not finally accepted? On the Walloon level, there is also an order for 19 million masks, while on your side you mentioned, Mr De Backer, an order for forty million masks. A few days ago, you sent a laconic email to the Brussels organization Iriscare, which was relayed to CPAS and rest homes in the capital. I read: "It has been brought to our attention that, as a result of problems of importing masks beyond our control, the supply will become scarce and we will move towards a shortage. In this context, we remind you that it is more than necessary to use your protective equipment sparingly and to avoid waste." This message is at least dismaying, given the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u20	Mr Prévot, you have passed your speaking time of ten minutes and I see that Mr. De Backer wants to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u21	Mr. Prévot, the article was false and the editor-in-chief (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u22	Mr President, I have not heard what Mr. De Backer wanted to tell me. He will certainly have the opportunity to respond earlier. What about the final orders in progress? How many FFP2 masks will arrive in the next few days? When? Can caregivers, yes or no, be reassured? Is there an overall view of stocks but also of future orders? I reiterate my request to provide hospitals with information on a daily basis so that they know what to do. I obviously still have a lot of questions. The ten minutes given to us are very frustrating, which is why, Mr President, I have told you that this is not a way of doing things and that parliamentary work is being put under the shadows. I give up the few seconds that I no longer have to go to my colleague, Hervé Rigot, who also had a lot to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u23	I'm sorry, but the ten minutes are up. We really have to stick to the timing. Otherwise, the other groups will not have the opportunity to speak. And if I let you talk longer, the other groups will also want to talk longer. I'm sorry, but Mr. Rigot may have to talk later. I now give the floor to Vlaams Belang.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u24	Mr President, I am a little surprised at the indignation of my fellow Members about the fact that democracy is being shattered. Anyone who has given this minority government the confidence and the power of attorney should not now complain about putting democracy out of play. Okay, let's get this over with. I had a lot of questions and tried to bundle them together. I have already deleted what has already been said by colleagues and will get straight to the point. I've divided my questions into categories. The first concerns the mouth masks and other protective material. Minister, Minister, do you have any idea how many mouth masks and protective equipment are needed to provide all the essential sectors? If one does not know that, one is doing something in the dark. With regard to the order of mouth masks at your party partner's dubious company, how is the investigation going? Had you previously placed orders with this supplier? Apparently, in some essential sectors, wearing mouth masks is explicitly prohibited in order not to cause panic. I am thinking of escorts in asylum centres, police, security officers and so on. Who is responsible for such nonsense? Are those responsible gonna get their hands on it? Minister, I have not been able to follow you on the number of mouth masks ordered, because you went rather quickly. I can see that you're doing pretty well and pulling in one order after another. That is a good thing. However, how much of all these orders is actually usable? Apparently also the delivery announced with much poeha with the King's involvement, is not really a delivery of the right masks. I'd like to see the percentage of the good masks in front of the ordered one. A second category of questions concerns the test capacity. A great deal has been raised by colleagues there too. The Flemish Interest has long been in favour of massive testing because, in addition to the frequent wearing of mouth masks, this is also one of the useful measures to reduce the virus. Here too, it seems that the light has suddenly been seen: the test capacity will be increased from 2,000 or 3,000 per week to 10,000 per week. That's still small beer compared to the 160,000 tests a week in Germany. My question is therefore whether there is a possibility of using mobile test labs, for example, so that the test labs come to the people rather than the other way around, especially with regard to testing in residential care centres. In China, pregnant women infected with COVID-19 were automatically performed caesarean cuts to protect the babies. What's going on here? Are there infected pregnant women? Can they still give birth, of course? Are there systematic tests in pregnant women with flu symptoms? The following came to my attention. In a hospital in West Flanders healthcare providers can be tested, but they have to pay 35 euros for that. Is that right? Is that what health insurance's gonna come up with? My third question concerns the financial resources. How much financial resources have been allocated so far in the fight against COOVID-19? The VBS proposes to set up a federal fund, similar to the Consortium 12-12, to raise tax-deductible funds for health care and medical equipment. Do you see salvation in such a federal fund? If not, what alternative do you have? My fourth question concerns employment, remuneration and students. Mr Creemers has already mentioned this. You speak of a framework. What framework is being created there? What status are these students under? Will that replace their internship? I also agree with Mr Gijbels' question about permanent lung injuries. Can that be catalogued as a work accident? Are health care providers protected, not only in terms of health, but also in terms of financial and fiscal matters? For example, what about their overtime? Can they still be taken on leave days or will they be paid, which will cause them to lose? In addition to increasing the capacity of beds, we must also ask ourselves whether there are enough hands around the bed. That is why I would like to compare how many healthcare providers are used in hospitals in normal times and how many extra care providers are needed to man the extra number of beds. In many hospitals, 12 hour shifts have been introduced since the week of 31 March. How feasible is this still for the care providers themselves? How can they combine this with their family situation, where children are overwhelmed with school responsibilities? Do you have a plan ready to assist the processed care providers after the corona crisis? One last category of measures concerns the post-crisis period. I hope you will take it with you to your colleagues. After the corona crisis, will a strategic stock of mouth masks, vaccines, virus inhibitors and ventilation equipment be built? Will the FIFO system be maintained? Will the federal emergency plan be adapted and implemented? Will a working group be set up in which today's heroes will be represented? Is there already a map of the measures taken and their results being kept up to date? More importantly, is there a reform of mental care on the table to deal with the tsunami of psychological distress that comes towards us after the corona crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u25	Madam Minister, Minister, I too will immediately ask my questions and proceed to the order of the day without making any obvious introduction. I have divided my questions into a number of categories. As far as communication and, above all, miscommunication are concerned, I would have liked to hear from you what additional measures you have taken to prevent the spread of wrong information and fake news on social media? Was there an active collaboration with the social media giants Google, Facebook and you name it to fight this kind of fake news? What other initiatives have you taken in this respect? I come to the cybersecurity of our institutions and cases in France, Spain and the Czech Republic. Is there an increased focus at the time of the corona crisis on the crippling effects of a cyberattack on hospitals and other parts of our health system that may or may not have been successful? What communication did you possibly communicate about this? What additional measures have you taken to ensure the cyber security of our health system? Backtracking and contact tracing of corona patients are another point. Are you aware of what is possible in the field of technology? Do you consider, whether temporarily or not, the use of such technologies in the fight against the coronavirus? What arguments do you have for that? I come to the use of existing medicines in the fight against COOVID-19. How large is the strategic reserve of chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine sulphate, for example? Is it sufficiently large if you decided to use it? Have you been given the very limited cost of these drugs? I have been told that chloroquine costs 10 euro cents per dose in the international market in search of additional capacity? Does the announced testing of the population fit in with the intention of treatment with chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine sulphate? What is the most recent state of affairs in the investigation of existing medicines and their use against the coronavirus? Is the use of these medicines under pressure for regular non-corona patients when we decide to use them in the fight against the coronavirus? Does our country cooperate internationally in developing a vaccine? What exactly is our role in that? Finally, a current question, from 1 to 4 April 2020, 241 deaths were recorded in the rest and nursing homes. However, we do not have any figures for March 2020. So my question is very specific: do you have any figures by March 2020? After all, as we regret 241 deaths in four days, I wonder what that number is for the month of March.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u26	Minister, Minister, you are totally focused on this health crisis in order to protect our people as much as possible. This is your responsibility, but it is a fact and it should be stressed. We all have a responsibility. We need to stick together, we need to work together. I'm not blind to anything and I have a lot of questions. It'll be time to take stock later. Many people are treated and we deplore deaths every day. Today, we need permanent cooperation between all levels of power, up to the communes, and a single and clear message to the population. Every day, the mayors continue to receive many more than legitimate requests from the front line: doctors, pediatricians, pharmacists, kines, dentists, nurses, home care workers, paramedics and others. Millions of necessary masks have arrived in our country and we must now be able to respond to all these professionals and there are these initiatives here that are scrambling the tracks. Citizens must have information, a single official recommendation on wearing the mask. Authorization, recommendation or obligation? When? What guy? How useful? What use? Which manufacturer? What risk? If this message is not clear, we will deepen the shortage of professional masks a little more for those who really need them. The public health issue is unprecedented. Attention must be paid to the immediate need for medicines and to the cost of medicines. 48 hours ago, we heard the Molière Hospital in Brussels say that they use alternative specialties: a curare for people who are ventilated. They're told that drugs are coming, but they don't know when. The choice is therefore made on other molecules that can cause severe allergies. At the communication level, Minister De Backer decided that there would be two formal communications per week. Is that it? With regard to orders, stocks and deliveries, this is essential for professionals and for the general population. I welcome the initiative. It is essential that then the Risk Management Group effectively clarifies this in the distribution between Regions and provinces. If I mention it, it is because it has not been the case before. As much for hospital staff as for outpatient care, I am asked every day, as part of my burgundy function, for gels, masks, blouses, protective goggles, slippers, charlottes, gloves, surface disinfectants, and visors. My municipality had to make up for this by making expensive orders to help avoid the risks to our caregivers and to equip them at a minimum. You know all this, of course. You are constantly busy, day and night, managing this crisis. But here I would like to remind you of the current, persistent lack and the appeal of these professionals. Mr Minister, you have been using levers, having come up with the solutions that are expected, and this is obviously very good news. But I can tell you that at the municipal level, we encountered problems when distributing surgical masks for home nurses in particular, ten days ago. They were still insufficient and this created disparities. It automatically reaches the morale of the care professionals. I lived it live, like all my fellow mayors. You will also agree that the priority recently requested of the municipalities between categories of activities of nurses, between very low, low and high activity, new INAMI registrant, new graduate and finally, registered but without any registered service at INAMI for the year 2018, implies complexity and above all, that information and data are available. The organization of stocks is in place. You say it and I thank you. We must now be able to reassure ourselves that this is also the case for the management of essential medicines at European and possibly national level. You have indicated in this regard that the production of medicines could be carried out in our country. It appears that 19 specialties are currently lacking in treatment for the disease. Where are you in your contacts about this? Are clinical studies in progress and what is the information on this? The question of testing obviously also arises. You said we could soon run 20,000 tests a day. I would like to receive additional information, in addition to what you said at the beginning of the session, which I thank you for. Finally, the legal and ethical protection of our caregivers. What about their protection and the support they need in this crisis, which seems to involve particular medical choices? Even yesterday, we heard difficulties in Liège in terms of access to intensive care and the use of breathers for some patients and not for others. Where exactly are we in terms of capacity in our hospitals? So some elements, Mr President, which I now specify with ten questions for the Ministers on behalf of my MR Group, to ensure the time allocated as we have decided for our work. What is the health status of our health care professionals in the front line and in hospitals? Is monitoring carried out and centralized in order to ensure their follow-up and the distribution of staff between hospital networks, if necessary? What exceptional budgetary measures have been taken in this context over the past two weeks for our hospitals? What is the status of patient distribution plans in the provinces? What about the much feared occupancy and saturation rates? In addition, in the context of cooperation with the municipalities and requests for intermediate patient-care facilities, could you explain to us the state of play of these requests and the precise purpose of this exceptional reception scheme? At the material level, what are the services that centralize current and necessary capacities in the coming weeks at the hospital level but also at the front line? On what basis do you define the providers of care that will be provided with equipment? Shelters for persons with disabilities would not be included in institutions delivered with equipment. Is that correct? With regard to respirators, is there or will there be a shortage of respirators, given the evolution of the pandemic? Are orders in progress? Is there an accelerated validation procedure for this equipment? New targets have been set to test our population. You announced it, and that's good news. In this regard, how many infrastructures are currently certified to perform and validate these tests? How are the planning, selection, prioritization of the institutions of nursing homes and the care staff to be tested determined? Do you have a daily schedule and people targeted primarily by these tests? What is the status of the dispensation of certain medicines currently used for the treatment of the disease in view of their stock? Are analgesics and anti-inflammatory drugs for children and adults currently out of stock? Is there a plan to change the packaging of drugs? Could you provide us with an update on ongoing clinical studies to determine new treatments in our hospitals and in outpatient care? Has a price analysis of health products determined whether they have increased in recent weeks? What measures have been taken in this regard? Are there sales restrictions in some businesses? As far as healthcare workers are concerned, could you tell us where we are at European level, in order to avoid wage overbidding in cross-border areas? Have any solidarity agreements been concluded with the governments of neighbouring countries? Opinions about masks are contradictory. Thus, the infectious physician Jean-Luc Gala stated that there was a basic principle in infectious field medicine, according to which the wearing of a mask by each significantly reduced the risk of transmission. On the other hand, if no one puts in it, it is much higher. Could you recall the scientific criteria that define that people without symptoms should not wear masks to get out of their homes? In this way, you would provide us with clear, clear and precise information on a subject that is of great concern to our fellow citizens. Finally, with regard to periodic vaccines for children, could you tell me whether all vaccinations scheduled for the next few weeks can be administered? Thank you and give the floor to my colleague Nathalie Gilson.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u27	Mrs Gilson, I welcome you to our committee, but I would point out that you have a minute left. So you'll have to be very effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u28	Mr President, thank you, even if it will not be obvious. First of all, I want to thank the government – the Prime Minister and the ministers – for its action. Together with the MR Group, I realize that they are making every effort to ensure the best possible management of this crisis. My question specifically concerns the wearing of masks by citizens. On the one hand, we hear the press conferences of the inter-federal spokesman, through which he confirms that asymptomatic citizens should not wear them and that this could even provide a false sense of security. We are, of course, in agreement with the idea that surgical masks should be reserved for health care personnel and, in particular, for their particularly exposed members. On the other hand, some doctors – notably Dr. Gala – pointed out that wearing the mask, even artisanal, could limit the spread of the virus by healthy carriers. Other countries are experiencing this. Is your position solely motivated by the WHO recommendations? Is it not possible to envisage the government launching a campaign to encourage citizens to make their masks, like other countries such as the Czech Republic, and to wear them on their indispensable exits? Moreover, we have not yet emerged from this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u29	Please close, Mrs Gilson!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u30	In post-confinement, too, pushing citizens to wear the mask could accompany the targeted testing. What is the status of the committee that has just been set up, of the experts around you and of yourself on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u31	Madam Minister, Minister, I will be talking about mouth masks and protective equipment all of a sudden. I heard Minister De Backer say the orders went smoothly. I'm very glad to hear that. We will be able to reassure a very large target group. But I do wonder whether there is no plan B in case there is too much scarcity on the market due to export bans imposed by certain countries or due to possible delays due to measures taken in other regions. I have seen that several companies have applied for disinfection and cleaning of various types of medical equipment. Is the government considering how these options can be tested? Can you give me an update on that? Any advice if you don't think those tests are possible? Besides, I want to talk about the medicine. Last week I asked a question in plenary about muscle relaxants, morphine and so on. I have received a reassuring reply from Minister De Backer again today. However, I would like to insist that the strategic stocks are large enough. A stock for three to four weeks does not seem sufficient to me. In the meantime, the measures will only become more stringent in the various regions. I hope that our country will respond effectively to this today, or rather yesterday, of course, by realising our stocks. We have already heard that Ebola, rheumatism and malaria pills are currently being used to treat COVID-19 patients. I wonder if the strategic stock will be large enough if they take action, so that we have at least a reserve that the caregivers can use to ease the pain of their patients. In addition, I have seen a communication from the UZ Leuven. It's been reported on VTM that it may have a drug that's working. I wonder whether it is not up to the government to ask for transparency on this matter. The U.S.A. hasn't released exactly what medication it's about. There are a lot of deaths in other hospitals. Should the government not be more coercive in dealing with this kind of communication and should it not ask all hospitals in Belgium to start taking the medication that seems to be starting? Madam Minister, can federal directives be disseminated so that all citizens, regardless of the region, are given proper care? Another care aspect is the current inactivity of many hospital services, and I am thinking in particular of rehabilitation departments. We know that there are usually a lot of patients coming in with a stroke, but those numbers are currently falling. How that happens, there are many questions. People who are victims of an infarct or stroke can recover more quickly as they can start therapy more quickly. I therefore wonder how quickly, in the exit strategy, those departments can start back in order to ensure that those patients can be helped again. I also see this as urgent help in the provision of care. Minister De Backer reported on some research and Europe issues. I have seen that funds have been released at European level for research on corona. It is not clear to me from the note whether our university hospitals are being included in these funds. Minister, what does the distribution key of the procurement organisation at European level look like for our country? A large budget has been made available at European level, but does it give priority to the regions most affected, or does it depend on the number of citizens per country? I would have liked more explanation about that. The UZ Gent communicated that very vulnerable patients of senior age are no longer included in the intensive care department. I am very sorry to hear that, as I always choose life. I believe that we must ensure that everyone can and can choose for life. Madam Secretary, I would ask you to issue federal guidelines on this matter. Even if they are vulnerable people of senior age, we really need to ensure that they are given a chance of life, just as everyone is entitled to it. I would like to conclude with a question about the test capacity, about which different figures have been reported, ranging from 10,000 to 20,000 per day. I would like to ask whether we are ready to do so, given the signals I receive from the workplace. The labs are ready to absorb that capacity, but in the hospitals the nurses already have their hands full with other tasks. I wonder how the reduction in this number of tests is organized. Does our country also have sufficient reagents to effectively reduce that number of tests? The number of 20,000 tests would be fantastic, but are we prepared enough to allow that to happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u32	Mr President, Minister, Minister, I would like to ask a number of questions on an issue that has not yet been addressed, in particular the Supplements to Honorary Wage. Last week there was a discussion about that. I was surprised that there was even a discussion about this. In fact, Article 152 of the Hospital Act provides that no remuneration supplements are to be paid if one has to lie in a single room because of his state of health, which is the case for corona patients. It is therefore also morally reprehensible to charge such supplements. That's totally illegal. The legal obligation will therefore have to be respected. Madam Secretary, how is the rule enforced? In what way are controls carried out? A next set of questions concerns the healthcare premium for hospital staff. Everyone is aware that care workers keep the country running. Day after day, they risk their health to help others. Without their proper care, the health system would collapse. Then let's take good care of them. The important thing is that we get the protective material right and fast to them. We need to make sure that we don't organize a tissue for the bleeding. I read in the media that a premium of EUR 1,450 is proposed. Is that going to be discussed today? Will we find an agreement on this? Why has no agreement been found yet? What are the stumbling blocks? What will the premium look like and for which category of care workers will it be paid? It is also important that we avoid a bid between the federal state and the states. There is a need for close consultation with the regional entities. It is not intended, for example, to grant a premium for COVID-19 departments in hospitals and not for residential care centres. The application of the premium will be very difficult. Where are we on the negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u33	Mr President, Minister, Minister, I will speak very briefly about two parts. As far as Minister De Backer's data desk is concerned, it seems inevitable to activate an app. Two problems appear. The first problem is a technical problem, a problem of putting it together. We have read that many private initiatives have taken place and that universities are also working on them. The second problem, of course, is the problem of privacy and non-compliance with European rules. How's the app coming? Is he available soon? How do you estimate the term? How do you solve the privacy problem, now but also afterwards? In this way, a large number of data are collected. The next part concerns mass testing. I have heard Minister De Backer state that a Walloon company is in the process of increasing its test capacity to 20,000 to 30,000 tests a day. Is this part of the strategy to test massively but also really massively and very focused, in order to isolate infected people and to be able to roll out the exit strategy more quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u34	Mr President, Minister, Minister, I have just come back from an action at the Zilverbos residential centre in Zelzate, where we took PCR tests this morning from 122 residents and 105 staff, from all residents and staff, a total of 228 people. We have done 5 hours; 18 people, doctors and nurses, have carried out these tests. We have also taken serum samples to do antibody tests for research purposes. We did this because today the housing centres are the ground zero of this epidemic. Of the 80+s who get and get the coronavirus, up to one in five can die. We should also be aware that housing centres have been closed to the public since 13 March. No visitors have been coming in since 25 days. So the infections that are emerging today, and which are dramatic, have come through the staff. So we know that the staff has not been sufficiently protected and that it is still not sufficiently protected today. Therefore, it is not for nothing that the staff is going to be terrified, not only for themselves, but primarily for the vulnerable residents in the residential care centres. It is five after twelve in these centres, but we can still intervene today. We must intervene and test where there is an outbreak, if more than five cases have been identified or if there is a cluster, but also where there is no outbreak. Only in this way can we keep truly infected persons and non-infected persons apart, strictly separate and ensure that there are no new infections. I also hear that the PVDA is not alone when it comes to testing everyone in all residential care centres, both residents and staff. On Thursday, when we have the results, we will separate the infected residents and staff from the uninfected. For the first group we can then organise the right care and protection, and for the second group we can then work on prevention so that there is no contamination. What we have done today in Zelzate is necessary throughout the country and is also perfectly possible. The second thing I wanted to talk about is the extra test capacity. Mr De Backer, on 26 March you promised that the test capacity would be increased drastically. On April 4th, you said we were ready to run 10,000 tests a day. We see that there were 4,300 tests last week and only 3,500 tests on Saturday. I find it very surprising that you have come here to say that the problem of not fully rolling out the test capacity is the guidelines of the experts. I think it is a great punishment for you to say that, and I would like to make that clear. It would therefore be the expert guidelines that ensure that the full test capacity is not used. I'm really surprised. As a doctor, I can testify that we effectively want to test many more people in practice. If we look at how many tests we do in Belgium and compare them with other countries, then we see that in a country like Iceland more than ten times as much is tested. We hear different laboratories and companies say they can do a lot of tests. It was announced that 20,000 tests would be carried out in the rest homes. In the rest homes in Belgium we count more than 200,000 residents and staff, which means that we can test less than 10 % once and that 90% would remain untested with what is on the table today. In the field, I also hear from a huge number of people from the health centres, both doctors and directors, that it is very unclear who would be tested when. I can tell you that the people in Zelzate where we went to carry out tests this morning and where there is officially only one corona case, were very happy with the tests. After all, staff and residents absolutely want to know whether they are infected or not, and whether they carry this dangerous virus or not. Another problem, besides the test capacity, is the problem of the staff. We must also find concrete solutions there. Firstly, there is a lack of staff to test the people. That takes a lot of manpower. This morning we carried out more than 200 tests with 18 people. We need people and staff to be able to test massively. Secondly, we need additional staff in the rest homes today, but also elsewhere to replace the sick staff and the staff who are out of work and to help with the reorganisation. If one has to organize an infected and an uncontaminated department in a rest home, it requires a huge effort and requires not only material but also manpower. Thirdly, we also need more staff to be able to focus on prevention and to check if there is any infection from where it comes. That needs to be figured out by people. It also requires manpower. In Belgium there is a structural shortage of investment in prevention and, for example, in prevention teams. I think I have made it clear that staff needs are particularly high. It is important, for example, when it comes to mobilising the reserve and mobilising and implementing the three matters I have just spoken about, that this is not just left to the Communities. This needs to be addressed centrally. PVDA has three runs. Firstly, all students of care, nursing and medicine who can participate must be mobilized and engaged in our residential care centres, but also in the massive collection of samples from the people and contact tracing. They could be active in this and should therefore be called and enabled. Secondly, all those with medical training, both doctors and nurses and health care professionals who do not work in the sector should be called upon, but also nurses and health care professionals who now work in services where they are more relaxed should be able to be mobilised. Thirdly, for reorganisation and logistical support, we can call on organisations such as the Red Cross and Doctors Without Borders who have a lot of experience in this. This is a major challenge for the people who have to reorganise all this care today. The third aspect will address the issue of masks. Minister, we learned from the press that by the end of 2015, the strategic stock of 5.7 million FFP2 masks had been destroyed. You're the one who decided it. In the meantime, I was also able to have an example because I was also in contact with the people in the army who kept these masks. The decision to destroy these masks is a real scandal, but what I learned from talking to these people and seeing it black on white is that there wasn't just the FFP2 masks. Once these were destroyed in 2015, there were no fewer than 22 million surgical masks left with which to actually treat asymptomatic people. These 22 million masks, I learned that you and your firm, gave your consent to destroy them in 2018! Today, I would like you to confirm to me whether, indeed, you have destroyed these masks for budgetary reasons. We will certainly be discussing this again because many are in favour of a committee of inquiry, and besides this very specific question, I have at least 40 questions on this subject, after reading this file. Today, we need to ensure that people have protective equipment on the ground so that they can protect themselves properly during care. It is known that several companies in Belgium have the capacity to produce masks. Mr De Backer, I'm sorry, your answers always stay "we'll see if..." It's not in four weeks that we'll need a company to produce eventually, it's today! Instead of continuing to say that you are going to study the question and answer it with if, are you finally going to impose production? Are you going to make sure these masks are produced? We know that there are Belgian companies that are capable of doing so, for example Sioen and Ontex. This is already happening in other countries. Why is this not still happening in Belgium? We are still at the stage of words and intentions when we are in the midst of an epidemic! There is also a problem as intermediaries and traders hold mask stocks and use them to speculate. It is time for the government to take strong action, requisition stocks held by intermediaries, shut off speculators and reserve the importation of masks to the only public authority that will distribute them to those in need.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u35	Mr President, I shall first speak on behalf of Mr De Caluwe. I just wanted to respond to what the previous speaker said about the situation in the residential care centres, in particular about the protective equipment and the test material. There are, after all, a number of points which I do not think are really correct. I know the sector pretty well. As part of my local mandate, I am chairman of an association of five housing centres in the public sector. Until last week, we were also very concerned about the situation in residential care centres and their evolution. It is known that the tests are reserved for the hospitals and for the care staff themselves. But there is a misunderstanding: it is not true that the care staff could not be tested; the problem was that the residents in the residential care centres were not tested unless they had to be hospitalized. In this way, it is, of course, very difficult for a residential care centre to employ qualified staff and to implement a prevention policy vis-à-vis the staff when it is not known which resident is infected. Symptoms of fever or cold can have all kinds of causes. We are therefore very pleased that very substantial progress has been made in this area. It is therefore somewhat populist to say that today only in Zelzate will be tested. The Flemish Community has received 20,000 tests through Minister De Backer. These 20,000 tests are already being used today in the residential care centres in Flanders. The policy in Wallonia is slightly different. 30 residential care centres have been chosen where testing is carried out, because it has been established that the COVID-19 virus has been spread there. In addition, sampling is carried out in a large quota of residential care centres. The first tests show that not every institution has effective infections. It is very reassuring for the staff working in these centres when random tests show that certain healthcare establishments are safe and the virus does not exist. In short, the tests were made available by Minister De Backer, for which I thank him, and the tests are not only carried out in Zelzate. The protection material remains a difficult point, but gradually everyone will find channels to get solid material. If we have test material, we can also determine more accurately where it is exactly necessary to work with protective material in a residential care centre. If no one in a residential care centre is tested positively, it can be worn as extra protection, but in itself we need this material especially in residential care centres where there are effectively identified infections. That is where we need to manage the problem in such a way that it does not get any further out of hand. I believe that a lot of progress has been made in recent days in the very difficult dossier of residential care centres. If we have any more material, that will of course be very welcome to everyone in the workplace. Furthermore, we must not forget that many people provide services to people in vulnerable positions through home care. As far as possible, we must also provide them with certain material. We're working on that right now. However, I am already very happy that there are 20,000 tests. If they are used wisely, this will already give us a fairly good picture of the situation in the residential care centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u36	I shall confine myself, as promised, to what has not yet been said. First, however, I would like to thank the ministers, the Cabinets and the various FPS involved, as well as the aid workers, the police and the numerous volunteers working in different municipalities. In short, I thank everyone who works very hard every day to control the crisis. My special thanks also to all the experts who advise the government. After all, choices must be made, which are not always popular, but which are undoubtedly necessary. As the Minister has just said, one can always say afterwards that it should have been dealt with differently. We must certainly learn lessons from the crisis. That is what we have to do in every crisis. It is important that an evaluation is carried out, and I assume that it will be done here at the appropriate time. This afternoon it has been very often about the protection materials and it is an effective challenge to get enough quality material to our country. The FPS Health Services have done a lot of work in this area together with the tax force led by Minister De Backer. In the meantime, a lot of crooked sellers are also active in that market. Apparently, quality cannot always be guaranteed either. In addition, many countries are blocking deliveries for their own use and logistical problems have arisen because airspace is closed off in many parts of the world. It is therefore not self-evident to get these products to us, although I can see that in the meantime there is already a lot going in the right direction. The biggest problem, I believe, is that the whole world is looking for the same personal protective equipment. I myself and, presumably, everyone in our committee receive almost daily offers from potential suppliers of mouth masks or other protective equipment. But let us be honest, it is mainly the people of the Public Health Office who have made sure that today we have mouth masks of the right quality at our disposal and that they also reach our healthcare providers. I would like to thank them for that. Mr De Backer, you referred to initiatives taken by the regions on mouth masks, among other things. I see that many municipalities are also taking an initiative. I myself see initiatives in which mouth masks are handed out to residents, but who knows on what basis and according to what criteria? Sometimes it seems to be a bid between the municipalities: one wants to do better than the neighbouring municipality. What do you think of such local initiatives? You also referred to a number of incidents involving suppliers and how they were responded to. Do you have any idea what the situation is in other countries of Europe? Were there also similar problems, such as quality problems, sudden unwillingness of suppliers to supply or a sudden adjustment of prices? Do you see such phenomena emerging elsewhere in Europe? Mrs De Block, I have two more questions for you. You mentioned a medical reserve of mouth masks. Is there one in the meantime? If so, how big is the reserve? Is it meant for the hospitals? Last week we were able to read reports of potential shortages of certain medicines. What is the state of play? Meanwhile, is the FAGG working on a decision tree to suggest alternatives in case of shortages?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u37	Mr President, first of all, I would like to express our deep appreciation, on behalf of my group, for all those people who are on the ground in the first line. Madam Minister, Minister, during this corona crisis, the situation changes almost daily. Unfortunately, however, a case is a constant one: a permanent lack of protective material and mouth masks. The major victims are the home nurses and the staff in the residential care centres, even after the task force was set up. By the way, we are glad that it is there, and that is a great improvement, but unfortunately it is not enough. A lot of carers stay hungry. They stay at work in sometimes dangerous circumstances. Minister, I would like to know from you how this is actually happening. Is there an overview of who received what material and who did not? What material is needed for which region? Is that centrally tracked? Who decides where the need is highest? Can health care providers also follow more or less when they are next, so that they can anticipate an imminent deficit? You mentioned a new control system. Does that work in the meantime? What are the results of that? A second topic I would like to raise today is the tests. They've already come up. You announced a few weeks ago that there would be a serious increase in test capacity. Today we read about the task force set up to prepare a possible exit scenario from the lockdown. Everyone who is interviewed today is talking about an exit scenario using tests. Who is currently being tested as a priority? Are there general guidelines? Who gives these general guidelines? I understand from what you have just said that there are no general directives yet. I think it is very important to know how the immune tests will play a role in the exit scenario. Can you give a tip of the veil about the strategy? I have the impression that everyone today is talking about their own strategy. In this context, I would like to emphasise that I think it is a good thing that the unreliable self-tests are prohibited. I have some very factual questions, such as the cost of the transport of sick people and some other so-called side effects of the corona crisis. Given the lack of time, I will not put it today. Instead, I propose to the chairman of the committee that a new committee meeting be held as soon as possible where we can put these questions. After all, with the sp.a Group, we do not think that we can carry out our parliamentary audit function properly within a two-hour period. Madam Secretary, I know you're busy. However, we want to be flexible, for example by meeting at less usual hours, but we do believe that there should be more time for Parliament. By the way, it has been clearly agreed in the group of ten that, despite the powers of attorneys, Parliament will remain the norm. In this respect, it is particularly regrettable that this does not appear today. Mr President, we are very clearly insisting on more time for committee meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u38	Minister, I am addressing you. Due to all the stories about the mouth masks, we would almost forget that privacy is also a matter for you. In that context, I would like to focus on two issues. My first point is the meanwhile approved use of telecom data by providers. Is this information already being used today, or is the focus mainly on ex post learning from the current crisis? Who has that information, the government itself or the private company with which the government cooperates? I trust that we will be able to evaluate this aspect in detail afterwards and debate it in this committee. A second aspect I would like to highlight concerns the tracing apps. There has already been a lot to do about it. A month ago, none of us thought we would be talking about such an app, but the situation is, of course, very special today. Is the government supposed to support one app and promote it? If so, how will the app be selected? Is it about an obligation or not? What is the view of you and the task force on this matter? If there is such a tracing app, the given trust is very important for sp.a. In my opinion, this is done by making good agreements. What information? Who's gonna see that information? If the app is deleted, is the information gone? In my view, this can only be done by working openly and transparently. So the app should run on open source. There would also be good cooperation at European level. We ask a lot of people, so we have to give them that confidence back. How's the task force looking at this? Will it be open source? Is it intended to cooperate at European level? How's that app gonna work? I want to close with a personal note. I would like to dedicate this speech to my most loyal supporter. When I drove to the committee meeting, I was told that my grandfather died of corona. He was 90 years old and he was very proud at the work I did here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u39	Mr Verduyckt, my deepest condolences.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u40	Mr President, my dear Kris, I too am very sorry for your loss. Every death is to be regretted. Mr President, Minister, Minister, I am going to ask just one question. My questions concerning mental health care and the shortage of medicines in hospitals have already been implicitly raised. We shall come back to that. Mr. Secretary, measuring is knowing. I'd like to ask a question about a fairly hallucinating message. Only yesterday, 6 April, have we systematically received the figures of deaths in the Flemish residential care centres. Sciensano confirmed that no figures from the Flemish residential care centres were previously passed on. To what do the Inter-Ministerial Conferences and the various expert committees say, and we are grateful that they want to do so, can they base themselves on a good policy, with such a lack of information? We're not getting those figures until April 6th, and then two days later. The figures before 1 April are still not available. What will be the impact of this on the policy of ministers proposed by the experts? Again, tribute to the experts. A question that we must dare to ask ourselves: would it have made a difference if the figures were previously correctly communicated, such as by Wallonia and Brussels? Does that have an impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u41	Minister, Minister, first of all I would like to associate myself with the pain of our colleague Kris and his family. Minister, in relation to your presentation, I have a lot to say, but as time is running out, I will leave a series of observations for later. I would like to pay tribute to all those who are on the front line: caregivers, researchers, small businesses who are struggling to find innovative solutions. In Belgium, we have so far operated only one armed lever, compared to other countries that have controlled the spread of the virus better than we have. The second armed arm, testing, is still little used. In addition to testing, it would be interesting to be able to track and trace. Do we have the technological and human resources to ensure this tracking and tracing for deconfining? It's a very important element. Mr De Backer, on 25 March, you announced 10,000 daily tests. When you look at Sciensano's numbers, that's still not the case today. Why? Is it because of the choice of people that can be tested? In nursing homes, many people still cannot be tested, while you give the impression that we have more tests than we can actually do in the field. I would like to know the percentage and the objective of the tests to be carried out in the population. With 10,000 tests a day, we would need 500 days to test half the population. If we do 50,000 tests a day, it would take another 100 days for the same result. There are two parts: who is carrying and contaminant and who made the virus and is immune. What is the objective in relation to this? What percentage of the population is concerned and for what type of analysis? What is the current factor limiting a more massive deployment? Is this due to the problem of reagents or human resources? Robots can be run night and day to perform thousands of tests, but it takes personnel upstream, for the reception of swabs, and downstream, to communicate the results. Is this the limiting factor? If so, can we imagine using volunteers to manage the situation? I would also like to take stock of shortages. You've given a series of figures, but there's always a gap between what you're saying and what's happening on the part of caregivers, whether it's for protective equipment or medicine. There are a few points that I would like to highlight. So much the better if we look for clean productions in Belgium. This is urgent and a major issue when we see the reality of the international market. The objective is very clear; hundreds of millions of masks must be available. We're still a long way from it. What about the innovative technologies that have been put in place, in particular to compensate for the lack of masks, especially 3D printed visors, which today, in terms of recognition, are blocked at the Public Health FPS? What about the installation of rouses, which would allow us to make a lot of savings in terms of the quantity of masks. Then let me highlight situations of particularly important fragility. This is the case for nursing homes, psychiatric hospitals, the home, the disability sector, services such as dialysis, transplantees, immunocompromised persons, particularly in oncology. On several occasions, I have tried to move things forward for these different sectors with the Public Health FPS. The situation remains critical. In particular, I would like to return to the problem of leaving patients after their hospitalization, who are still carrying VOCID-19. Minister, you are referring to the fact that 13,000 beds are available in hospitals. Is it not important to use these available beds as a transition before leaving the hospital to avoid continuing to send VOCID-19 patients, particularly to rest homes where the situation is extremely tense? There is no longer chronic care, no longer the usual care of seniors' life paths. Today, nursing homes really take care of acute care. They need to be both strengthened in terms of staff and relieved, avoiding the continued return of patients out of hospital. I now return to the collective wearing of masks for the general population, not at home, not in its garden, nor in its car but when it is in contact with other people. Minister, I heard on RTL this Sunday that you thought it was to deal with people's emotions. I would still like to give you some scientific references in this area, including publications in Nature which is a hyper-at-the-edge reference. Scientists from around the world, such as Professor Gala, Professor Wathelet and Professor Clumeck, argue in favour of wearing the mask, not of course as a single measure, but rather as a complement to the barrier measures. It's already useful today. It will be even more so at the time of the deconfinition. Madam Minister, beyond the WHO position, it seems to me important that we can move forward on a clear position on this matter in Belgium. I am not referring here to the wearing of the surgical mask or the FFP2 mask because the latter must be reserved primarily for caregivers and patients who clearly need it, but for tissue masks whose collective wear must be put in place to meet the scientific data that are now published and which demonstrate an added value in terms of barrier, provided that they are properly used. As far as new advances are concerned, treatment with immunoglobulins has not yet been mentioned. This is a treatment highlighted in a series of scientific publications. What about Belgium? Some hospitals that have patients hospitalized in intensive care units and suffer from extremely severe pathologies are waiting to benefit. Still with regard to new advances, you know that anosmia and dysgueusia seem to be particularly important diagnostic elements that could be used as a symptom for diagnosis. A publication is pending. I have shared this information with the Public Health FPS, which has not yet responded. Would it not be useful and relevant to include anosmia and dysgueusia on the official list of symptoms for the diagnosis of VOCID-19? I would now like, if I may, to ask you a few questions about patients whose care and/or consultation have been postponed. It would be important, Madam Minister, to integrate their case into the reflection on deconfinement so that they can be dealt with very quickly. Postponements of care or consultation may lead to more severe pathologies that will be problematic for the patients concerned. I read in De Tijd that there was a bonus that would be given to patients. What exactly is the situation? There is also a bonus for all those on the front in the key sectors. I come to the EUR 1 billion cash advance for hospitals. Everyone knows that it will obviously be insufficient. Could you clarify whether this amount comes in addition or whether it is taken from current under-utilized budgets? Finally, let me ask you three more technical questions. If you can't answer me today and you send me the answers, it'll be fine. First of all, I would like to know the composition of all the task forces set up. In addition, figures are given daily by Sciensano. I would like to know exactly which people are taken into account for the number of deaths. I knew that initially deaths in nursing homes were not taken into account. They seem to be today. Are they all, or only the deaths of patients who have been tested for VOCID-19? Is there still a catch-up in the first few weeks, or are all deaths now integrated? Finally, according to Sciensano the results of the tests are distributed by Region. However, the number of tests performed by each Region is not known. However, in order to fully and correctly interpret the results by Region, we obviously need the number of tests carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u42	I give the floor to Mrs Rohonyi.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u43	Mr President, I would like to know how you see the end of the work for this committee. I would like to ask my questions in the same way that my colleagues were able to do. At the same time, however, ministers must have time to provide us with the requested answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u44	It's obvious there won't be any more time. It will be either next week or in writing. We will discuss it with the ministers afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u45	Mr President, I thank you for organizing this committee, for allowing us to operate in spite of the difficult circumstances that we face. Thank you to the ministers for their presentations. Thanks for the work they're doing, too. But it is true that there are questions that require more precise answers in relation to what we have heard today in committee or through the media. I would just like to take this opportunity to come back to a question that I addressed to the minister two weeks ago with regard to home-based nurses, for which I did not get an answer, even though it seems essential to me. This is the case with the lists of providers who take home nurses and which prevented many of these home nurses in Wallonia from having access to the protective equipment that had been promised, since they were not included in these lists of providers when they had their identity cards and their INAMI number. I believe that two solutions can be explored in this respect, in any case in the short term. The solution that was retained in Brussels, where the distribution of masks went well, was not to rely on a listing to be able to distribute masks, and just to rely on copies of ID cards and INAMI numbers. In the medium term, the solution will have to be, at some point, as they demand, to review this cadastre. I think it is quite possible to do so, in particular, on the basis of the monthly bills that the mutuals systematically receive from nurses at home. With regard to the material that was actually received by these home nurses, I am reminded that the masks are of very poor quality, that the elastics do not hold, that the pliers-nez bar does not protect enough, while Minister De Backer stated in his introductory statement that there was finally a quality control of the material before distribution. I wonder, then, how, despite this, we have come to such a situation. On the other hand, I would like to address the issue of the strategy of deconfinement. An expert group has been set up: the GEES (Group of Experts in charge of the strategic exit). The Prime Minister has re-emphasized health, since the challenge of this de-consolidation will be to avoid a second wave of contamination as long as we have to continue living with this virus. This involves the development of screening and immunity tests on a very large scale – far superior to what we currently know – but also the use of far more masks than today. I know that the task is not simple, especially since the WHO's recommendations on deconfining are not clear and it has not defined any specific strategies. On the other hand, it believes that there is a need to combine screening and serological tests and, therefore, immunity. Is there therefore a plan to perform both tests simultaneously? Mr. De Backer, you explained that the serological tests were being validated. Therefore, by what date could they be validated and when will they take place? Will they be carried out in the same manner as screening tests, according to the same categories of the population? What about at-risk populations such as the elderly? The population would feel very badly that these populations are the last deconfined, knowing that their social isolation remains very important. What is your position in relation to today's recommendation by the Council of General Medicine for the whole population to wear the mask, without having to wait for the implementation of this debunking? Austria and the Czech Republic have chosen this strategy even if WHO does not recommend it. Could you clearly position yourself on this and give us your arguments? As far as screening tests are concerned, I welcome your willingness to gradually increase their number. I also welcome the work done by companies and universities in this direction. Besides that, a lot of figures have been put forward. In plenary, you said that we were heading for 10,000 daily tests and then 20,000. Mr. Clarinval referred to the figure of 40,000. We are now far from it, and even if we succeed in doing so, this would remain insufficient, particularly in the light of our strategy of defining. I would have liked to hear you on this point, but also on your consultation with the federated entities on the operationalization of the screening tests. It is true that the Regions will have their role to play in consultation with the federal government. What types of tests will be performed? Will pharmacies, for example, be solicited in this context? What about the training of those involved in these tests and the logistics that would be put in place to ensure their distribution and analysis? It comes back to me that, for some tests, the time for analysis would be very long. This is a worrying aspect of our screening strategies. Who will benefit as a matter of priority, knowing that today is the case for nursing homes? Is there a consensus within the Risk Management Group regarding people who cannot telework? We must also think about these people. If there is no consensus, who has to make a decision, because we have to be able to decide at some point? I'd like to know more about auto-tests and quick tests. The minister explained that they are now banned because they are not reliable enough and too expensive. On the day when these tests will be reliable and less expensive, can we hope to see them allowed? Finally, as regards the organisation of care, it is our responsibility that hospitals refuse to see the arrival of residents of nursing homes over the age of 75, in particular on the basis of a recommendation from the Belgian Intensive Medical Society. This is disturbing because, on the one hand, there is no saturation of intensive care beds in our hospitals and, on the other hand, nursing homes are not equipped enough to manage these patients who are in promiscuity with other elderly patients, therefore in a situation of great vulnerability to this epidemic. Is it true that we will no longer be able to transfer patients over the age of 75 to the hospital? Do you consider that this criterion is sufficient or must it be accompanied by an evolution of the disease, knowing that one can be very old and have a great chance of healing? Are nursing homes allowed to practice patient resuscitation, since the Belgian Association of Emergency Nurses is now advising against resuscitation of patients outside the hospital because it would involve too many risks of contamination for the staff who would perform resuscitation? Finally, I agree with the questions that have been raised by my colleagues with regard to backtracking. What is the position of the Data Protection Authority, in particular with regard to compliance with the GDPR? What are the first conclusions of the Data Against Corona Task Force in relation to this technology?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u46	Mr. Rigot, I'll give you a minute to ask your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u47	Mr. Chair, Minister, Minister, I understand that steps have been taken to strengthen hospitals, which is a good thing. When will they be realized? What human means will they be used? Will they survive? Are you considering taking steps to strengthen other professionals outside the hospital world who are also physically and mentally exhausted? The stress is enormous for those on the front. I am thinking of caregivers at home, in nursing homes and in accommodation. Are you considering as an option to strengthen the missions delegated to nursing assistants, as you did a few months ago, by providing them with financial compensation, which was not the case previously? Are you considering taking measures that can relieve caregivers who are spending incredible days at this time, and who still have to take on their role as fathers or mothers, spouses or spouses, and take on family duties at home? Are you considering taking steps to alleviate them somewhat? This could include the provision of services, tax measures or specific leave for the spouse or cohabitant. Finally, do you intend to take measures similar to those put in place at the CHR du Val de Sambre? I am referring here to measures relating to psychological accompaniment for all those who are at the front and who are facing stress which can have consequences such as burn-out or post-traumatic stress. Support measures must now be prepared for these people. At the end of this war that we will win thanks to all those who went to fight, very often without a defence weapon, without a weapon of attack, I hope that the (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u48	I'm asking you to conclude, Mr. Rigot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u49	My conclusion will be very short, Mr. President. I hope that the white blouse funds will be granted, and that they will be allocated to those who are at the front. In conclusion, it was World Health Day today. I think all of us could perhaps applaud those on the front. Thank you!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u50	I actually saw him this morning and forgot to mention him. I'm joining your call, Mr. Rigot. I would now like to give the floor to the ministers who, I presume, will soon have to attend the meeting of the nuclear cabinet. We must therefore agree on the way in which we continue the debate. The committee has certainly planned to discuss it later, when the ministers have to leave. Madam Minister, Minister, I understand that you will both be available next week. The question is whether you can also reply in writing to the questions that have been asked here. I hear from you; I assume there is unfortunately no time for both of you to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u51	Mr President, I should like briefly to clarify a number of points for my part. Firstly, we have indeed made a calculation of the existing federal needs. We also check whether our orders are sufficient. Since this afternoon, we have also had a clear view of the orders placed by the regions. We now have a complete overview of the masks and other materials on our way to our country. The Risk Management Group, i.e. the group of experts and representatives of the various political entities, including the regions, decides on distribution. I share the frustration I have heard from a number of Members, namely that it is going too slowly. When the masks arrive, are tested and of good quality, they must be taken to hospitals, residential care centres and elsewhere within 24 or 48 hours. Since the RMG has again been unable to make a decision, I decided this morning to put 1 million surgical masks on the market today to try to meet the highest needs in hospitals and residential care centres and not to wait for the decision of the RMG. We work together with the various entities to apply a clearer and more transparent distribution system and distribution key in this respect. That is why we discussed the issue again yesterday at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. However, I must confess that I was unable to reach agreement to my great frustration. At the same time, we are working on a circular for re-use and the use of 3D printing materials and other innovative solutions. That should come online today or tomorrow. There is therefore a clear framework to enable re-use of certain materials in different hospitals. As far as testing is concerned, I would like to point out that the test capacity of 10,000 and more tests per day was already completed last week, but that the hospitals were ordered to test symptomatic patients and symptomatic aid workers and no one else. That's, I think, actually a wrong decision, but that's a decision of the RMG. I don't throw anyone a rock, but that's just how the system works. The experts must give an opinion on the increase in the criteria. If it were up to me, those criteria would need to be increased effectively and asymptomatic health care professionals in the first line, general practitioners, doctors in hospitals and people in residential care centres should also be tested more extensively and the maximum capacity we have today should also be made available there to carry out those tests as soon as possible. I would like to point out that we are talking about hundreds of thousands of people there; so even with a capacity of 20,000 or 30,000 tests a day, it would take at least a few weeks to achieve that alone, but if you ask me personally, I think that is the strategy we should follow. So we will use a combination of tests, both PCR and serological tests and immunity tests, if they are validated. When they are finished, they will immediately be rolled out and deployed in Belgium. As far as data and track and trace are concerned, the data group has primarily worked to enable open data and to build models to predict the crisis. Meanwhile, under the watchful eye of the Data Protection Authority, he has also worked on monitoring anonymised and aggregated telecom data to map mobility movements of the Belgians. We will continue to do so today, for example to see how, last weekend, the stay-in-your-kot measures were properly followed or not. The next step, of course, is track and trace. But we must also discuss it with the Regions. The latter are competent for tracing. That is what we are doing for the time being. We have presented the frameworks for a strategy, but now we are seeing, together with the federated entities, how we can implement this in a privacy-friendly manner. It's something essential to me. That is why, in this "data" task force, the privacy authorities are around the table in order to point out the constraints and frameworks that we must respect in order not to violate the GDPR which is applicable at European level. I would like to say a few things about the medications. Firstly, we have effective enough stock of medicines for the next few weeks. However, it is necessary to create an extra stock of curares or certain antibiotics. Progress is being made in this area in several countries, but at the same time we see different countries imposing an export ban. We try to adapt a sleeve there by diplomatic means, in order to bring the necessary materials here, or we make agreements to start our own production. There have already been agreements for the production of masks and for the production of certain medicines. I'll announce it once it's done, but the contracts have already been made. In the meantime, the problem of the hand gels has been solved. We have adjusted excise duties in this area, so in principle the problem should be solved, both for the provision of care and for the wider economic sectors. I hear thousands of litres of alcohol are converted into hand gels, which are distributed from Peutie through a central distribution. I wanted to give you some of those elements. If we want to move towards an exit strategy, I believe that these three elements will have to be sufficiently supplied, a clearer data approach and a test approach. I will work very closely with the exit strategy group set up by the Prime Minister. But it is that group of independent experts who will have to provide us with scenarios.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u52	I'll give the floor to Secretary De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u53	I will now answer a number of questions and provide you with the rest of the answers in writing. As regards the additional support, the RIZIV, together with representatives of the healthcare sector in the contract committee on nurses' insurance institutions, considers what additional support measures are appropriate in the context of medical care insurance. A working group is therefore working on this, in consultation with the sector. There were also questions about recognition as an occupational disease. That recognition is now in place. Two weeks ago, there was an approval of the Fedris Management Committee. This also applies to what we call the small statutes and also to internship students. We are also looking at how this could possibly be extended to the volunteers. Mrs Depoter and several other Members have asked questions about the chronic patients. According to the contingency plans, only non-urgent treatments can actually be postponed, for example the placement of a knee prosthesis. The monitoring of chronic patients with diseases such as rheumatism and Crohn's disease and the monitoring of certain cancer treatments must be possible. The hospitals are also equipped for that. There is a separate circuit for patients with suspicious symptoms or corona. It's too bad the guard rooms stay empty. That was reported again this week. People stay out of hospitals for their regular checks out of fear. There should be a signal. I've done that before. Mrs Gijbels, you had a rather technical question which I will not answer now. The triage posts are working very well. It prevents people with suspicious symptoms from sitting in the waiting rooms. You can't do that. They're being picked up at the triage stations. At the Public Health Office there is also task force Triage who succeeds this in cooperation with the Communities but also with the general practitioners, who helped set up the triage posts. I come to the questions about the conclusions and agreements to be reached at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. Yesterday we had an Inter-Ministerial Conference at 6.30 p.m. We will also have an Inter-Ministerial Conference tomorrow at 8 a.m. It is very difficult to reach an agreement with nine competent ministers, given the different situations in our country in the residential centres and in hospitals. We remain patient, but I think we will have to take further steps. We have not yet received the necessary data from federated entities to know the number of staff and patients in nursing homes. We have been asking for this information for more than a week and we have been promised to share it with us, as well as with my colleague De Backer, for testing before noon. I don't know if they've already arrived. We could not pay the billion for hospitals through the BFM (Budget of Financial Means), because it would have taken too long. The amount will be paid to hospitals more quickly. It is true that budgets will fall during this year. We will then be catching up in some consultations. This will work differently from before, when the envelopes were then designed out of budget. It has become impossible given the exceptional circumstances that we are going through. Then I come to Mrs Sneppe's question about pregnant women and the impact of corona. Scientific reading is still limited, but in the meantime includes case reports of several dozen pregnant women. There it is said that the course of the disease is no different in pregnant women than in the rest of the population, in the knowledge that pregnant women should, of course, be treated as special patients in any case. The information about pregnant coronapositive women in hospitals is collected through the hospital surveillance of Sciensano and more detailed through the network of the Belgian Obstetric Surveillance System, which has been deployed in an international network. This also includes women in early pregnancy, provided that they are hospitalized, for example if they are miscarriage. We do not know whether these women have more complications during their pregnancy, but there is still no evidence of that. Again, it's only about a dozen case reports. There is certainly no question of an automatic sectio, we have no knowledge of that either. Then I come to the psychological care, needed for the patients or the people who, unfortunately, lose someone. A number of measures have already been taken, but this will certainly have to be continued in the future and extended. The figures from the Flemish residential care centres that have been added today are a sensitive issue. Of course, we were aware of the number of deaths in Flanders, but we did not know how many of these deaths involved people who may have had corona or proven corona. Flemish Minister Beke has given other figures in this respect today. We will have to look at this in order to assess the impact. Before 1 April, Sciensano did not provide any information. It is now clear that the correct figures could still be extracted, and the mortality rate for the last month will also have to be taken into account. I'll ask Sciensano how that can be stabilized. Mr Creyelman asked a question about cybersecurity. Cybersecurity is of course important in today's more difficult working conditions. In a letter to all hospitals, we informed them of what to look for and where to get help from the FOD, in collaboration with Frank Grobben. We are trying to take preventive action and, if necessary, to resolve problems quickly. I've already answered the question about the empty guard rooms. Yesterday I had a video conference with La LUSS. I've already answered letters from them. The fear exists in people with chronic diseases, but also in older people or people with disabilities, that they would not be treated as well in our hospitals if they were admitted to this disease. Nothing could be further from the truth. In a hospital it is the responsibility of a team of doctors who all work together to see what a patient's chances are and how to ensure the best possible survival and quality of life. Indeed, we still have sufficient bed capacity. We have done a lot for that too, so if someone is not included, it is because there are other things that prevent the recording, but certainly not because there is a refusal for some reason. Mrs Van Hoof, I have already replied to your question on the Supplements to Honorary Wage. There is indeed an article that states that a patient who is palliative has an infectious disease or is confused can be placed in a single room for medical reasons. We will see to it that this happens here. That article exists and must be applied. The core has already looked at a possible incentive premium for people in care. These days, a working group is working on this, together with Minister Muylle's cabinet. Mrs Van Hoof, it will therefore be no trouble to ask her about that. As Ms Fonck said, this is about people who are close to the patients and to whom a form of remuneration could be awarded. A sum has been published in the press. That was the downside of the day, because that amount was never mentioned at the table in any discussion. So it's definitely a wrong amount, which I wouldn't go off on. Tax and social measures are also under discussion. With regard to the proposal that more people should be able to do nurse work, the draft Royal Decree is now before the Council of State. It's already passed the Council of Ministers. It states that nursing activities can be carried out temporarily by healthcare professionals who are not normally authorised to perform them. Of course, we monitor the quality of care and they can only perform these actions in the context of a functional partnership. The FAGG does not only follow the medicines for the non-COVID treatments. Also for the COVID medication, which is more special, a task force with stakeholders follows the situation and centralises and distributes the purchases. In this respect, there is also a decision tree, as for the other medicines. Mrs Jiroflée, the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee developed principles for billing for urgent transport. For COVID patients, we have created a dedicated capacity within the 112 system. Patients transported to the hospital by these means are therefore subject to the rate of the 112 service. For interhospital transport and transport to intermediate structures, the costs of transport are borne by the federal government through an intervention in the Hospital Financial Resources Budget. The ambulance services bill directly to the hospital, so there is no brake charge for the patients. If it's a discharge, the hospital will have the patient put on a surgical mask before he can leave the hospital. The hospital will provide a flat-rate contribution to the cost of the discharge transport and will receive compensation from the Financial Resources Budget. That is where the normal scheme remains in force. There will also be a time limit of two hours, so no urgent transport should be charged. For transport between different healthcare structures in case of COVID-19 contamination, Mrs Jiroflée, no brake fee will be charged to the patient. We have worked out an arrangement for this. Mr Bertels, you had questions about the data that Flanders provides to Sciensano. Our figures from the hospitals include both those who tested positive and died by COVID-19, and those who died and for whom there is a suspicion of infection. We have now seen that many countries do not include the latter and do not even know the number. Also, many countries do not count the people from the residential care centres, nor the people who die at home. We should take a look at that. It would be a good thing for the ECDC to make rules for this, so that all countries report in the same way. After all, it cannot be that Sciensano reports everything and we are at the top of the list, while other countries only give the cases that are really proven are really tested, which puts them at the bottom of the list. That's not representative of the actual number of people who died from the virus. Mrs Fonck, like what is happening in Flanders, we are creating intermediate structures for people leaving the hospital. More than 4,000 people have already done so. They may return to their homes or to rest homes. In this case, action must be taken. I have already answered the question about carers' premiums. It is certain that this should be done for people close to patients who are working now. Let me turn to Mrs Rohonyi's lists and question. For home nurse lists, we did not have reliable lists in federated entities. They weren't updated. The lists were drawn up by the Public Health FPS and INAMI, bringing together the data available from the Public Health FPS, INAMI and Banque-Carrefour. They weren't always compatible. But after the work was done, I heard the lists were up-to-date. In the meantime, we had heard of people who were in either data bank, and who were sometimes already pensioners. As far as the support measures are concerned, as I said, they are currently being examined. Once they have been determined and approved by Kern, I will be able to provide you with all the details of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u54	Minister, thank you for having already answered a whole series of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u55	I understood that you would send written answers to a series of other questions. That being the case, do you think we can see each other again next week?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u56	My services will contact your secretariat. Today, I have not been able to participate in a Kern, which is not normal when the topics covered relate to my skills. The work must be able to continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-07-55-commissie-ic138x.u57	We understand that very well. We therefore let you go and thank you for staying longer than expected to answer the questions.
