ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary. I shall begin with a practical statement: unlike what was agreed yesterday, the committee will meet next week on Tuesday afternoon instead of Wednesday morning. We shall then deal with the four proposals that have been put forward. After all, no room appears to be available on Wednesday morning, so we have to move the sitting to Tuesday afternoon. This afternoon I would certainly like to stick to the principle that Parliament will always have the last word. Quite a few questions have been put about COOVID-19. I would suggest that we still use 2 minutes per question. A number of Members have put forward a lot of questions, and I would ask them to limit their speaking time, if possible. I would also like to draw your attention to the possibility of referring to the written version of your question, which will then be included in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u2	Madam Minister, at previous committee meetings you replied that there had been no cases of corona in the closed centres. I'd like an update on that. Are there still no infections with the staff or with the residents? My question about the influx can actually already be completely deleted, as the figures relating to the reduced influx are now fully available on the CGVS website. The release of illegal immigrants from closed centres was already discussed during the topical questions of the plenary session. I do have another question about the repatriations. During the hearings, the competent authorities had indicated that repatriations are getting under way again. Capacity is also available in the closed centres, as you have collectively released illegal immigrants, including persons with CVs due to disturbance of public order. Will you increase the number of repatriations, which seems to us to be a better way of releasing capacity, thereby shaping a fair asylum and migration policy? At the last committee meeting, you gave the figures of the Corona crisis. Maybe now you can give an update. In the media I read that the amokmakers who went beyond the Bruges Gate area have been identified by heavy fighting and destruction. What happened to them? Have they only been ordered to leave the territory or have they already been deported? Which nationalities and genders are involved? What punishments have they received? Whether they are returned or not, they have to compensate for the damage done to such a historic building. The press read that everything had to do with drug use and the Ramadan. You often get excited that the media do not always give the right information, so I hope to get it from you. Can you shed some light on that? In any case, this type of incident shows to me, in line with my previous question, that the capacity of the closed centres must be increased. You've released a lot of illegals. Did you know if there were any other incidents? Will you also follow the file so that the illegals involved can be repatriated to closed centres as soon as you have increased the capacity there? Perhaps you could give an overview of the number of incidents. One of them's been in the media a lot, but were there any others? If the problems in the Bruges Gate were due to the Ramadan period or the lockdown, which was a tough period, there might have been incidents in other places as well. Through the media we heard that there would be a lot of infections in Kapellen, in particular 81 on 30 April. A week later, there were 110. How has the number of infections in the Kapellen shelter evolved so far? Is that where extra capacity was created? For how long and for what reason? There have been a lot of incidents with illegal immigrants lately. That's how police officers became victims of an attack in Anderlecht. The VSOA police union has distributed a video showing how cops are really being attacked during an arrest. There is even talk of weapons and footage showing how bystanders try to free the suspect and smack him to the policemen involved. This is unacceptable to our group. I'd like to have more insight into the incident. What happened to those illegals? Were they arrested and punished? Were they returned to a closed center or repatriated? Can you guarantee that you will do everything you can to deal with illegal immigrants who have no right of residence and who, on top of that, are making amok, for example in the Bruges Gate, or attacking those policemen in Anderlecht? Will you really act against that and give a clear signal? I hope to get that from you today. Finally, I have two questions that we added last week in response to the recent report by the German Minister for the Interior that Germany has managed to allow many Syrians to return voluntarily to their country of origin. If Germany succeeds, will Belgium succeed? How many Syrians in Belgium have returned as a result of any campaigns or any initiative from you? How will you bet on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u3	To sum up, on 29 April you said that visits by Members of Parliament or NGOs to closed centres would also be made possible in the residents' departments. What's the status? It is important to be able to keep checking in those places. I have already referred at previous committee meetings to a number of problems in the closed centres relating to protection measures for COVID-19, including in Bruges. What measures have you taken? Can you tell me what problems you've tackled? I have also formulated a number of questions. My next question is about Koksijde. We have a real problem to deal with there. You have already responded to this in the press. The mayor there constantly casts doubts and fears about whether or not the corona directives are being complied with at the asylum seekers' centre in Koksijde. First he quarantined the center and, more recently, prevented the children from going to school, even though there was no reason to do so or evidence of COVID-19 outbreak in the center. We cannot tolerate such practices anymore. This does not benefit the general interest, the peace and good cooperation with the Centre. How do you respond to that? More generally, how do you handle it when a local authority officer acts like this? I have two more questions about the Greek camps. On 20 May, the Chamber adopted our resolution on the relocation of vulnerable minors from the camps on the Greek islands. I would like to take stock of the state of implementation of the resolution. You announced that 18 minors would be brought to Belgium. How's that going? Have they been selected yet? Have any minors been transferred? Where will they be taken? Have any preparations been made for this? I would like to get an update on the relocation of older people and other vulnerable people from the camps. A provision has also been included in our resolution on this issue. The resolution also calls for a structural European solution to be found in the Greek islands. What's the status there? What steps have been taken? What role can our country play? Finally, as regards the shelters for children from Greek camps, the Platform children on the run made an overview of the available places in our country and concludes that 42 places are already available for unaccompanied minors in the very short term. The reception and reception network of Fedasil will be expanded and also in the center in Overijse there will be places. There are plenty of guardians available. Can you confirm that we are ready and that we have sufficient capacity to take action? In light of this offer, are you prepared to house an additional number of minors from the hotspots on the Greek islands? Will you urge the communities to continue investing in foster care? I would like to add another question. I suppose other colleagues will also be talking about it, but an opinion has appeared from someone from Vlaanderenwerk Vlaanderen. The title actually says it: "Where is the exit strategy for online registration for asylum seekers?" Hopefully you can say a little more about this, because more and more sectors in our society are taking up their activities. There are problems with the online application. Refugee work Flanders bears a testimony from an Afghan family, three children, a daddy and a mommy who is pregnant, who knows nothing about registering online. They don't have an appointment and go to the login center. There they were referred to refugee work, which apparently has to assume a certain responsibility in that system. Together, the registration form will be completed, but then the question of accommodation will arise. The people concerned have no place to stay and no one knows where they can go. There's a call coming in. Eventually they find a place in a homeless center of Samusocial. You will agree with me that the situation for an asylum seeker, for a person seeking asylum, is not ideal. Normally, a whole process starts, but that has not been the case for a number of weeks now. Since we are coming out of the lockdown, we think it is necessary to restart the normal functioning of the asylum applications. I'd like to hear your response to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u4	Mr President, may I ask my three questions on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u5	Only your question on COOVID-19 is now on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u6	Madam Minister, since last year additional constructions have been placed at the Fedasil reception centre in Poelkapelle for the temporary reception of 72 additional asylum seekers. This period is limited to a maximum of four months per year. This temporary extension is still in place today, causing Fedasil to commit a construction violation. In addition, the city council was informed that Fedasil intends to set up eight additional constructions in the near future. Madam Secretary, how many infections have been detected at the Poelkapelle shelter so far? Were these eight containers placed for the reception of additional asylum seekers or to give the existing number of asylum seekers more room for manoeuvre in relation to the coronavirus and the respect of the social-distanting measure in the asylum centres? A new reception centre in Fedasil has also been opened in Herbeumont, in the province of Luxembourg. The thirty-one first inhabitants, who have just registered their application for international protection, settled there during the examination of their request. The reception centre is located on the grounds of the Les Fourches holiday centre and accommodates about 400 people. In what way were the municipality and the population informed about the reopening of the holiday park in Herbeumont? Was there an information meeting organized? How much is the additional capacity? For how long and for what reasons?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u7	Madam Minister, last week we had the opportunity to hear from the various actors in the bodies that manage migration in Belgium. Mr. Roosemont, Director of the Aliens Office, explained that the online registration system could last a few months. This is quite worrying since most professions are deconfiguring themselves. The question is why the Aliens Office remains in an online registration system while physical registration could be possible, with precautions to protect staff. This is disturbing because we see the appearance of lines in front of the Petit-Château, with very young migrants. This is worrisome because it is known that some people have to wait almost a week before they can benefit from housing, even if the services do what they can in terms of deadlines. Minister, what are you going to put in place soon in terms of physical registration? Do you confirm that the registration is being maintained online? What are you doing to support NGOs that need to address translation problems, even if the application form has been translated into many languages? Is a pre-reception envisaged for people who have to wait? My second question is about closed centres. You have had the opportunity to return to this issue in a letter addressed to the Commission. Can associations and NGOs return to closed centres to make findings and observe conditions of detention? The following question concerns the risk of expulsion for foreign students. Belgium welcomes hundreds of foreign students each year and some of them have lost their student jobs due to the VOCID-19. This loss of income cannot be offset by assistance to the CPAS. They cannot claim it otherwise the Aliens Office could consider that they represent an unreasonable burden on social security and thus put an end to their stay. Minister, are you aware of the particular difficulties faced by these European and non-European foreign students? Do you intend to take measures to protect the right of residence of these students affected by the crisis? Were orders to leave the Territory issued in the past two months to foreign students on the grounds that they placed an unreasonable burden on social security? If so, how many? How many are from the European Union? My last question has already been raised. The Chamber adopted a resolution on the relocation of minors present on the Greek islands. I am pleased that you were able to respond quickly to this 18 desire by announcing the welcome of MENA. Having said that, I remember that this resolution had as its first request to welcome minors according to the availability of places in our reception network. However, the figures are not 18, but rather 42 available places. We have learned in the debate, particularly with a representative of Fedasil, that the question that arises is also the question of the second line with a more structural reception. In particular, there are opportunities that work very well – the results are very good – for foster care. Has this track been considered? There you go. For the rest, I refer to the questions sent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u8	Mr President, I will try to make it short, especially since I think the question is a little out of date. Madam Minister, there was a Royal Order of Special Powers No. 19 – but the question was tabled a short time ago – which provided for special measures with regard to the procedure before the Council for the Litigation of Foreigners, in particular in its Article 1 and Article 2 concerning the time limits applicable to the introduction and processing of procedures. There was a possibility to extend this time limit, linked to Articles 1 and 2. We come "end" of the period VOCID-19. To date, there is no question of extending this deadline to the best of my knowledge, contrary to what has been decided for the Council of State. Minister, considering that the general circumstances are not different from those applicable to the Council of State, is there a desire to extend this Royal Order of Special Powers? If so, until what date? If not, can you explain to me the reasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u9	Mr. President, time is running out. We must act, that is the essential thing. It is not the questions that are important, but the answers that the minister will give us. I refer to the written text of my six questions: Nos. 55006676C, 55006677C, 55006708C, 55007106C, 55007112C and 55007139C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u10	I come to the other questions. As my colleagues Wouter De Vriendt and Simon Moutquin pointed out a few moments ago, I would like to return to this urgent problem of minors still present in the hotspots in Greece. You have certainly not forgotten, Madam Minister, on the one hand, your commitment to welcome 18 minors from the Greek hotspots and, on the other hand, the resolution adopted by Parliament a few days ago to urge our Government to assume its responsibilities in the framework of the European commitment to relocate 1,600 minors in health and humanitarian danger to the Greek hotspots. Following last week's hearings, we have questions. What about these 18 minors? Will they soon be welcomed? If so, when and where? At the hearings of the bodies on 9 June on the impact of the VOCID-19 crisis on the functioning, CGRA cited various obstacles to the repatriation of these unaccompanied children. What are they? What are the solutions we can provide for these young people to be accommodated immediately in a MENA centre? In which Fedasil center will they be welcomed? Are MENA centres saturation or not? Fedasil pointed out that this could be a problem. Finally, 18 miners, in our view, is a very symbolic figure. Are you considering increasing this support? If so, when? If not, why? I have another question, Minister, about the Fedasil network. Today we have seen a decrease in the occupancy rate, but everyone agrees, at the level of asylum authorities, that we do not know where we are going tomorrow, following the reopening of borders, and following the congestion of procedures at CGRA and the Foreign Litigation Council. Of course, there are questions. What are the future prospects of the Fedasil network? Are you planning further seat openings? If so, how many places will they be open and where? As soon as the 94% exceed, a click is planned to increase Fedasil's budget and allow the opening of additional seats. Have you ever obtained an additional budget? Are you going to apply? What will happen to the Fedasil network as soon as the borders are reopened? Fedasil also appealed to private partners, as today all the host partners were in difficulty, overwhelmed. I am reminded that new private reception spaces will open. Can you tell me their number? In what time frame and where will they open? Finally, in order to comply with the health measures imposed by the CNS, do you plan to open places in order to respect the compulsory social distancing in all centres? What is your action plan for the coming months? Madam Minister, my last question concerns the reception centre in Coxide, which has been very up-to-date in spite of itself as a result of the harsher and exaggerated behaviour of the local authority. Indeed, the decisions taken by the latter go against the decisions taken by the government in the context of the VOCID-19 measures. However, these measures have been tightened. Lockdown measures were taken by the mayor of Coxide and harsh measures were taken that did not allow children to return to school. I'm hearing that Coxide's center is closing, so I'm worried. Do you confirm the upcoming closure of this centre? Why? What will happen to the centre's residents and school children? Where are they going to be transferred? When and in how long? Is the network able to absorb this closure at a time when the situation is already difficult in terms of network saturation and the necessary social distancing? How is it possible, Madam Minister, that a mayor can impose specific measures on a reception centre situated in her territory without following the sanitary conditions laid down by the CNS and by forcing residents to disproportionate measures, such as preventing them from entering and leaving the site freely or preventing the resumption of courses for children seeking international protection, despite the consultation with Fedasil? Have you had any contact with the mayor? What do you think of his behavior? Have you also had contact with the Governor of West Flanders? It seems to me more than time to remind our mayors that they have a responsibility, it is certain, but that there is also respect for a framework and that stigma must stop. An applicant for international protection is a human being like all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u11	Madam Secretary, first there was the mayor's statement that there would have been a major corona outbreak in the center. In the meantime, it has been found that this is not the case. 40 people were tested and no one was positive. That's the first new fact. The second new fact is the communication this morning to the residents of the asylum centre in Koksijde that the centre closes at the end of this month. In view of these two new elements of information, I should like to confine myself to three brief points. Firstly, can you confirm that the centre will close at the end of this month? Secondly, what is the procedure when a municipality would like to test the residents of a centre at its own expense? Is there a possibility of cooperation between the municipality and Fedasil? What exactly are the agreements or should new agreements be made there? Thirdly, this is the most urgent and important question for me personally: the centre closes at the end of this month, but there are 142 children in that center. It would be nice if those children could finish their school year in the school and the language bath classes where they are now. I hear that several children would have moved to another center. Perhaps it would be good if you could clarify that a little bit, at least check it out and contact Fedasil. After all, those kids have had difficult months. They'll move again. It would be nice for them if they could say goodbye to their classmates first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u12	Madam Secretary, now that the lockdown in Koksijde is over, it appears that sufficient measures have been taken. Images from the center clearly show the separate containers with beds, toilets and showers. There was no longer any common food to respect the rules of social distancing; the refugees helped themselves to disinfect and even made mouth masks. It was also perfectly possible to isolate infected people, without having to quarantine the entire center. Indeed, the tests in 40 inhabitants show what Fedasil suspected, namely that no person was infected, because the quarantine measures were sufficiently complied with. Fedasil pointed out at the beginning that Mr Vanden Bussche had wrongly and disproportionately endorsed the asylum centre and even called his approach discriminatory. Moreover, the police action of the centre de facto made a closed center, because everyone was held there. As a result, the children, who couldn't go to school anymore, lost a lot of time. Why did you, even though Fedasil himself indicated that the complete closure of the centre was not necessary, order the removal of the lockdown of the asylum centre only after the tests? How do you evaluate the decision? Do you think you've acted too late or not? What is your opinion on Fedasil's argument? My next question concerns the online registration form, which currently requires asylum seekers to apply to DVZ. This method has been set up so that applications can be made in a safe manner. However, there are many problems with the system. Yesterday, a call from Refugee Work Flanders appeared in Knack, which I certainly recommend you to read, if you have not yet done so. The article raises a number of serious problems. Sometimes whole families are not aware of the system of online registrations. Volunteers need to explain to asylum seekers how it works. A 19-year-old cured woman, who suspected she was pregnant, could only talk three weeks after the online registration. Asylum seekers who still need a place after the lockdown could only be delayed on call. Because there are no solutions to such cases, voluntary organisations, such as Refugee Work Flanders, have to deal with the problems of a failing system. How long will this method of online registration be maintained? Will the online registration continue to exist in parallel when physical registrations will be possible again or how do you see that? What are the advantages and disadvantages of online registration? For my third question on the employment of foreign nationals in a specific situation of residence, I refer to my written question for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u13	Madam Secretary, I will try not to repeat too much. Much has already been said. I have a question about the registration system and refer to the article in Knack. I have already mentioned the many points of concern in previous questions, but I would like to make three observations. I understand that there is an improvement for unaccompanied minors and that they are admitted during office hours. Secondly, there is an increase for others and no reception is organised. Apparently, that's getting really problematic. Third observation, Fedasil would be more and more condemned by the labour court to receive people, even before they get a first appointment. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. What does the exit strategy of DVZ and Fedasil look like? When will the login center function normally again? How long will the online registration be used? Is there any thought on the basis of these convictions about organizing pre-care? What steps are being taken quickly, given the reopening of European borders, or at least already by a number of countries? As far as relocation from Greece is concerned, I will not repeat what many colleagues have already said, but come straight to my questions. Where will the minors for whom relocation was decided be placed? What is their profile in terms of age, origin and so on? What's the timing of all this? Whether foster care for older unaccompanied minors will succeed depends very much on how the children and young people in Greece are prepared. Suppose a group of unaccompanied minors comes across in Belgium and those young people have been together for a long time in a shelter camp in Greece, then one should certainly discuss a placement in a foster family in advance with them. It is not advisable to separate them and place them in separate families. This is also evident from past experience. My question is therefore whether this will happen. Are such prior talks being held and are they being taken into account? Like my colleagues, I would like to ask whether there is sufficient capacity in the OOCs. For stage one, I believe it is. In the meantime, have you organised a more general round question with the residential partners? If yes, what is the response? We know that certain partners have already said that they have the place, the expertise and the willingness. Which partners have the place, the expertise and the willingness to do so? Have you mapped out how many places it's going to be? Do you have a view of the families who are willing to take care of unaccompanied young people? Do you intend to launch a call to these people, possibly together with the communities? A number of cities and municipalities have indicated that they want to take action and do their part. How will you involve them? If you have done this whole residential care exercise with cities and municipalities, host families and others, how many places for relocation are you coming? On that basis, what further steps will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u14	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the riots in the Bruges Gate. Rival drug gangs are fighting a little war there at the expense of the many residents. There were a number of heavy fights in which people in illegal residence were arrested. Corona has made cooperation and coordination between different services even more difficult, but more important than ever. In Ghent, a liaison officer from DVZ, who is an expert in foreign matter and who is a link between the city on the one hand and the services in Brussels on the other hand, has been working for a number of years. It goes without saying that priority must be given to the forced return of criminals without a right of residence, including drug dealers in the Bruges Gate. The importance of this official has once again been demonstrated by the recent problems we have seen and still see there. In Ghent, this official is also working on pre-identification, which, on the basis of information exchange, identifies perpetrators without a right of residence before coming to a closed centre for repatriation. In this respect, I have a number of questions. Firstly, how is cooperation between the DVZ liaison officer and the city of Ghent going? The official is regarded as an added value. Is it therefore being considered to extend that function? Right now, that's just a half-time job. Under Secretary of State Francken additional funds were provided for ten full-time staff to assist the police in the judicial section. Are these people being deployed in Ghent? Secondly, these questions concern the city itself and the cooperation with DVZ. Did the city of Ghent ask DVZ to focus more on housing checks? I have requested figures in Ghent and the number of house checks in Ghent is very low. Will the official work on this with the city of Ghent? Is there a lot of money on this? Did the mayor effectively ask DVZ to carry out residential checks? How many actions has this official taken in recent years? In what context were these actions organised? Is there going to be an action plan? How's the pre-identification in Ghent? Is there an active participation in this? What are the results? How many people were identified? In the meantime, how many of them were sent back to their country of origin? In view of the problems in the Bruges Gate, but also in many other neighbourhoods in Ghent, such as the Dampoort, will we make more use of this? What's the impact of corona on that? Were the suspects' records passed on to the Foreign Office for pre-identification? How many home checks happened for pre-identified persons?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u15	Everyone's been covered. The Minister has the floor for her answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for all your questions. Quite a few figures were requested. I would like to answer that, but according to the Rules of Procedure, questions for figures have to be put in writing. After all, it is not always possible to get everything ready in time, but we are doing our best. I will deal with all the questions thematically. There were a number of questions about the registration of asylum applications. We were told that the registration procedure was not going well at Petit-Château. The only suggestion I heard was that we should make it the way we used to. It's just impossible! The virus is still present and it is not possible to gather as many people in the same place with close contacts – either between applicants or with officials. In the context of asylum applications, we sometimes had up to 200 people a day at the door of the Little Castle before the health crisis. This implies numerous movements on the territory, but also a greater number of applicants in the waiting rooms and very close contacts with various employees. In order to meet the public health recommendations, the infrastructure of the Klein Kastiltje had to be adapted. A new procedure was developed as soon as possible, allowing registrations to be carried out in a safe manner, both for applicants and for staff. Under the new procedure, all persons wishing to come to the Petit-Château to register their asylum application must request an appointment via an online form. The form is limited to identity data, photos and possible documents. Fedasil has also adapted its processes to minimize the risk of spread of the virus. In the current health context, the number of completed forms is still too high to resume activities without appointments. No one can ignore this reality on the ground. The implementation of this new process allows for the continuation of registration activities. In this respect, our obligations at European and international level are respected. From the moment it was no longer possible, even in the countries around us, we began to think about how we could open the doors again and still allow a number of people to make an application. That's why all these works happened. That's how those online registrations happened. When we look at the countries around us, we see that the number of registrations and the number of files handled is proportional to the number in the Netherlands and France. It is true that the number of places available for new asylum seekers is quite limited. As you know, Fedasil and its partners have managed to prevent the uncontrolled spread of the virus in the centres, thanks to the various measures taken in consultation and collaboration with the local authorities. One of the measures particularly requested by different local authorities was no longer to appoint new applicants to be taken over by existing centres, in order to be able to maintain social distance and to create a sufficient capacity for isolation in each reception centre. The new applicants are So temporarily only sent to the recently opened reception centres. However, since the opening of the new centres has also been slowed down by coronavirus, the number of places available for new applicants has been limited in recent months. We are making every effort to gradually increase the number of places available to accommodate all applicants who are entitled to reception within a reasonable time. It is unmistakable that COVID-19 has left many traces not only in the Department of Public Health, but also in the Department of Asylum and Migration. We didn't want to bring other people into the center. We didn't know anything about the status of those people. These people could have infected the entire center, as it was not yet possible to test an entire center or many people in the center. Measures have also been taken to reduce capacity utilisation in the centres so that more distance could be maintained there. Nevertheless, that was not easy. We have also given protective equipment to the staff in order to function there too, if the distance could not be kept. There has been a great deal of effort in the centres to prevent as many infections as possible. That has also proved to be effective. Families with children and vulnerable persons, including persons over the age of 65 and unaccompanied foreign minors, have been given priority since the beginning of this new procedure. For MENA, the average time between the date of the appointment request and the submission to Petit-Château is approximately six days; this time frame takes into account contacts with guardians and centres to set an appointment that is appropriate for the parties. For first-time arrivals, the average delay is 12 days. As regards reception between the online registration and the appointment at the registration centre, it has already been pointed out that part of the reception network is outside the reception network or is already in the reception network. Those who already have a stay outside the reception network do not live on the streets, and others are already in the reception network. Already in the first days and weeks following the closure of the notification centre, consultations were held with several competent authorities to take the necessary measures for migrants who could not apply for asylum following the temporary closure of the registration centre. Unaccompanied underage aliens reported by the Voogdij department or who spontaneously report to the registration centre with a request for shelter, are assigned to an observation and orientation centre or receive an adapted community place. If the minor has not yet requested an appointment via the online form, he or she will be assisted by the staff of the reception structure. With regard to the accessibility of the form, given the number of appointment requests that are submitted, including by MENA, this procedure does not seem to be so inaccessible. I am aware that problems for some applicants are reported. The Administration, of course, continues to work on elements that can be improved. It's a tough case to pretend there's no virus anymore. We cannot afford that. We have taken so many measures and they can only be relaxed step by step. Influx into the reception network has fallen sharply, as only 236 applications were submitted in April. Where Mr Moutquin suggests that things can just go back to normal, Mrs Van Camp mistakenly suggests that the current context can remove the pressure on the reception network in a fingernip. It is really too early to talk about a phasing-out, on the one hand, because we need to reduce capacity utilisation enough to take into account the RMG's guidelines for residential collections and, on the other hand, to prevent the spread of COOVID-19 in the reception centres. To this end, we must ensure that safe distance is possible and that isolation places are available when people become ill and may be infected. Mrs Van Camp, there have indeed been few people coming in, but there have also been many fewer people going out. You're forgetting. There has been a delay in leaving the centres due to delays in administration. We have therefore taken various measures. Additional containers were placed in several reception centres, such as Poelkapelle and Kapellen, not to increase capacity, but to allow sufficient distance for the people who stayed there and, if possible, to isolate people who were potentially infected there. If they were really infected, it was the intention to take care of them there and let them serve their quarantine there. In addition, we have given the residents of shelters the opportunity to temporarily leave the centres with meal cheques, if they could live with family or friends. However, this is only a matter of temporary measures. Thanks to all these efforts, we got the situation under control. However, this is still quite early, because only last week the last lockdonws in Jalhay and Koksijde were lifted by the mayors. It is now important to stabilise the situation. It is also important to look at the number of decisions the asylum authorities can take in order to assess the reception capacity needed in the medium term. Although they are committed to adapting their functioning to this new reality as effectively as possible, we must remain realistic about the number of decisions they will be able to make. This number will undoubtedly be lower in the coming months because the distance rules must also be respected during interviews. If there is an interpreter and possibly family members to be present, it is actually impossible for our protection officers to have such a conversation. CGRA has effectively reduced part of its backlog in recent months from 12,730 files at the end of March to 10,671 files. As a result, approximately 2,000 backlog files were processed. With regard to the forecasts for the coming months, I can tell you that, according to CGRA, for June, the number of decisions will probably be quite similar to the number of decisions taken in May. With the resumption of personal interviews, the number of decisions will increase from July onwards. As a first step, couples are not summoned for a personal interview, but this situation will evolve soon. Personal interviews will be resumed for couples but also for MENA. The extent to which the backlog of the Aliens Office and CGRA will be further reduced in the coming months will depend heavily on the evolution of the number of new applications registered. It remains a great unknown. That is why caution is needed. Moreover, the impact on reception is not only a question of the number of final decisions of asylum bodies, but also a question of the real possibility of leaving reception centres, both in the case of a positive decision and a decision to refuse. It is therefore too early to conclude that less reception capacity would be needed. There are too many strangers. Undoubtedly phasing out of reception centres would present irresponsible risks at the present time. In the meantime, we know what could lead to the too rapid and unthought-out phasing-out of places. That's what I experienced when I joined in December 2018. Given the volatility of the situation, we need to prepare ourselves just to be able to cope with any higher number of requests. Also ensuring safe distance in reception centres remains an important point, especially with a view to a possible second wave. We must be prepared for that. I would also like to inform you that the Mayor of Herbeumont was personally informed about the reopening of the reception centre in his municipality. The center has a capacity of 413 places. As usual, Fedasil has proposed to organise an information meeting for the local population together with the municipal administration. However, the mayor has decided not to do so. Instead, local residents have been regularly informed through newsletters from Fedasil and the municipality since February 2020, as well as via online channels such as Fedasil's website and social media. The asylum seekers who do not call on the reception of Fedasil, including the asylum seekers who receive shelter from their employer, will receive a so-called code no show. They are only entitled to medical assistance from Fedasil, which is not competent for checking the quality of housing outside the care network. The regions are responsible for this. I would also point out that the number of COVID-19 infections in the Fedasil centres has been relatively limited for the time being. On 12 June 2020, Fedasil 239 confirmed COVID-19 cases on the entire reception network. For all centres, the Agency consistently communicates the confirmed cases also to Sciensano. You can also see that Sciensano makes a distinction in the figures of hospitals, residential care centres and other institutions, of which Fedasil is one. Local government is also systematically informed. With such an open and fair communication to local and provincial authorities, good cooperation is built. This is also the case in most places, but it is not mentioned in the newspaper. The story that residents were allowed to visit family or friends, while the rest of the population were not allowed to visit, is, of course, made up. That's not right. Nowhere in the ministerial decision on measures to prevent the spread of COOVID-19, I have found an exception for asylum seekers. I have often repeated that they too must abide by the rules and that is how they have been applied. A lot of work has been done on that in the centers. As discussed in detail at the previous committee meetings, Fedasil has taken many measures to prevent infections and outbreaks of the virus in the centres. These are in line with the recommendations for the residential collections that we have prepared and which were approved by the Risk Management Group. It is therefore very regrettable that some mayors consider it necessary to impose additional measures, such as a lockdown. Just to avoid such situations, there are regular consultations between Fedasil, the mayors, the governors and my cabinet. Also with the mayor of Koksijde and the governor of West Flanders a lot was discussed about the situation in Koksijde. We have always taken the same position there. Fedasil is taking sufficient measures. Additional measures for reception centres imposed unilaterally by the mayor cannot be justified. The closure of a centre and the denial of children's education is not acceptable. I would like to stress that there was no outbreak in the centre of Koksijde. The results of the tests in two children were initially unclear. A new test was therefore carried out. Both kids tested negative. The result was also negative for 40 other voluntarily tested residents. In total, seven cases have been confirmed since the beginning of the crisis. The most recent contagion in the center dates back to early May. Of course, we've made arrangements with the mayor. The mayor is personally informed by the agency about each positively tested resident.The mayor also receives the latest version of the Fedasil vademecum, which includes the whole strategy of tackling the corona control within the shelter. So yes, Fedasil has correctly communicated with the mayor of Koksijde. I have repeated here a number of times that all centres in the reception network have had to set up a quarantine zone where confirmed or symptomatic sick COVID-19 residents are isolated until they are cured. Quarantine zones also apply to residents who are referred to as people at high risk of infection as part of the follow-up. This also applies to the center of Béjar, which is managed by New Samuscial as partner of Fedasil. The persons to be taken care of in that centre are asylum seekers assigned to that centre by Fedasil. So it's not about homeless people. Fedasil is not responsible for the reception of that target group. There is no reason to treat that centre differently that all other Fedasil shelters. I would also like to emphasise that there is no reason to believe that residents are at greater risk of becoming infected. The measures taken by Fedasil and the Foreign Office are sufficient to prevent infections within a center. Indeed, no contamination has been detected in the closed centres and for the time being it remains so. There is no reason why residents of these centres, where so many measures have been taken, should be subject to different rules than the rest of our population and why children who end up in a centre with their parents should not have the right to go to school and other children do. With regard to Royal Decree No. 19 on the Foreign Litigation Council, we discussed it in the VOCID-19 committee and you were present, Mr Aouasti. I'll repeat what I said. I am aware of the difficulties faced by lawyers, and the Royal Decree of Special Powers No. 19 addresses most of the concerns expressed by the bar. This letter has therefore been taken into account and the health situation has been recognized as a cause of force majeure of its own right. There was no waiting until May 6 to make a royal decision. However, the procedure became (...). The Royal Decree was prepared at the same time as the Royal Decree on the Council of State, with the difference that the Royal Decree on the Council of State still required an opinion from the Law Department of the Council of State, so that those two royal decrees were not published simultaneously. The measures provided for in Royal Decree No. 19 on the Council for Aliens' Contests were extended until 30 June, as was the case with the measures for the Council of State. It is not for the Minister to interfere in the organisation of a jurisdiction. So I'm limited to you. provide the information provided by the first President of the Council at its hearing on 9 June: for the time being, there are no more than two hearings per day of up to ten cases involving applicants for international protection, one in the morning and one in the afternoon. It is therefore certainly not correct to say that the Foreign Litigation Council "is turning into a huge waiting room". We are therefore working, but also there taking account of the measures, such as disinfection, the reduction of the number of people and so on. However, I invite lawyers.be to share his suggestions with the head of the body of the court if he considers that another organization would be more effective in dealing with the influx of appeals brought since the beginning of the confinement period. So all tips are welcome. People say it again. There is a consultation with the desks for the asylum authorities and the Council for Aliens' Contests. It's being organized on an ad hoc basis. The RvV organises a meeting with the desks twice a year. In addition, Myria organises a bimonthly consultation in which all the authorities are present: the Voogdij department, the representatives of the counters, the NGOs and the umbrella organisations. In the context of the sanitary crisis, the Commissioner-General informed the desk proactively about the resumption of the hearings. At the hearing on 9 June, the Bar gave its assent. The Council of Foreigners did not hold a meeting with the counters during the corona crisis. As far as closed centres are concerned, I repeat that no contamination has yet been detected among residents in closed centres. On 11 May, the National Crisis Centre evaluation cell analysed the closed centres showing that the measures taken have proved successful in avoiding outbreaks in centres. The closed centres always apply the scientific guidelines and evaluate the situation and guidelines from day to day. If problems are identified, they will also be addressed. For example, beds have been removed in the dormitories, so residents are no longer able to sleep close to each other. The measures are mainly aimed at the maximum spread of residents, but there are also strict hygiene measures. Both residents and care staff are maximum sensitisers. To ensure the necessary social distance, for example, the distribution of residents in rooms and in dining rooms is increased. The number of persons able to participate jointly in certain activities will be reduced. The movements within the center are adjusted. All these measures are taken to avoid contact between the different groups of residents. In an intake, new residents are tested. Mouth masks are worn when necessary, i.e. when the distance cannot be kept. Temperature measurements take place when accessing the centres. However, I would like to say that in some cases the reports have taken a step in the right direction. Firstly, in some cases old images were used on which a full occupation can still be seen, while the occupation is now less than half. The current use of the old images simply gives a false picture of the social distancing. Furthermore, there are a lot of falsehoods. Yeah, everybody's got a mattress, and no one should sleep on concrete. The people in our country obviously do not have to eat from the ground either. The problem with hot water in Merksplas was also solved, but even when there were problems, everyone could take a hot shower. For correct information it is therefore necessary to listen to the two sides of the story. Those who do not do so do not earn the necessary respect for the staff who do their best day-to-day in difficult circumstances. Mr De Vriendt and Mr Moutquin asked questions about the visit to the closed centres. Since that is a different theme, I will come back to that later. Now I come to the questions about exemptions and removals. On June 16 there were 202 residents in the closed centers. No families with underage children are currently being held. That was also the case before the corona crisis and nothing has changed. This year 2,399 people were forced to be removed, of which 166 since 13 March and 50 since 27 April. All opportunities are seized to carry out further removals. Removals have now resumed, although at a lower rate than before, to include the Netherlands, France, Ireland, Italy, Bulgaria, Ukraine, Romania and the United Kingdom. The number of removals will, of course, increase with the further start-up of air traffic, which my services follow from day to day. I come to Mr Rigot's question. 8 people were removed from the closed centres to Brazil, 1 in collaboration with the International Organization for Migration (IOM). The last removal took place in mid-May and the remaining 7 dates from March. At the time of the removal, no elements were present to stop the return process. Returning to the country of origin can be seen as an essential journey. As far as voluntary return is concerned, we are at the top of these difficult months in Europe with 223 movers. It goes without saying that a voluntary return to Syria is not self-evident. The return to that country through the IOM has been suspended for the time being, but the situation is continuously monitored. From Germany there is voluntary return to Syria, though very limited. However, this does not happen in cooperation with the IOM. You will see that the capacity utilisation rate has already been increased in relation to the figures I gave in the previous topical and urgent debate. That was 162 then. The aim is, of course, to further increase the capacity utilisation of the closed centres, but of course we must always respect the measures, such as distance, to ensure the safety of residents and staff. So we won't be able to work at full capacity as long as the virus stays with us. The Foreign Affairs Office monitors every day all the parameters in order to be able to proceed with a further increase in capacity utilisation, such as the situation of air traffic to destinations to which aliens can be removed. Mrs Van Camp, you have a recurring question about exemptions. You say that you have already raised this in Question Time, but you still have a lot of questions to ask, and in the meantime you may even be saying that it is tough, but I have heard that it was people who had committed facts against public order, which is not true. That's not true. I keep saying that. Mr Roosemont has also said that a person who has received a PV because of illegal residence or drunkenness is not necessarily a threat to public order. Prisoners are still, as far as possible, disposed of directly to their country of origin or transferred to the closed centres. Persons in illegal residence who have committed offences against public order are always a priority for detention and expulsion. That was the case in the past and it stays that way today. However, there are now restrictions due to public health and staff safety measures. Exemptions may exist for various reasons, for example by order of the court, because the removal or identification could not be completed within the legal time limit or for medical or humanitarian reasons. It is true that more exemptions have taken place in the first weeks of the corona crisis. However, since the last report in committee, the number of exemptions has been considerably lower than the average for the last two years. As you know, in 2018, a percentage of 61 removals on the total number of detentions were achieved, and that was at a time when I was not responsible for the department. Mrs Van Camp, you can ask my predecessor why that figure was so high. Also in normal times there are exemptions for legal or medical reasons, by order of the judge or because the time limit has expired. In 2018 and 2019 there were about 250 per month. I told you this in plenary, but I repeat it here because it gives a good picture of what is happening there. There was a demand to ease the visit to the closed centres. There was a lot of enthusiasm about that in committee. During the topical debate on 29 April, many MEPs also asked for the visit to be made more flexible. As promised, I discussed it with the Foreign Office, and the instructions were modified. The relaxation took place on 6 May. It is today 17 June and, to my knowledge, no Member has visited a closed centre or even applied for it. If there was such an interest in this, it is strange that no one has even applied to go there. All of us there, I would say to all those who insisted on it. You may have a day off in the next week. Do not rush all there at the same time of course and go visit them. There was always the possibility to visit closed centres, but security measures had to be taken there too. Wings where residents were present could not be visited temporarily. Now it is relaxed there and you can all go there. I will ask Mr Roosemont to follow up on how many visitors there have been. In addition, access is still granted to official bodies such as Myria, the Complaints Commission and the Federal Ombudsman. That remains unchanged. The lawyers have always had access to the centres. To date, only one request for video conferencing has been made by lawyers. The session took place using Skype. A simultaneous translator followed her. It's possible for us and them, but they didn't. So it's up to them to explain it, not to me. In any case, we have made many efforts. When we offer such opportunities, only a lawyer uses them. So it's a lot of effort for few results. Let me tell you quite clearly: our people are not bored there. One makes it seem as if those efforts are being asked of them to keep them occupied. I'm telling you, these people don't have time. Then I come to Mr Rigot's questions about medical isolation and medical interventions. Mr Rigot, as a first step, every occupant in solitary confinement is seen by a doctor. The occupants concerned may also be seen by a doctor during daily consultations in the medical services. Since March 18, a total of nine occupants have been transferred to a care facility. In addition, five occupants required medical intervention, without having to be transferred to a care facility. All those who indicate that they want to be seen by a psychologist are de facto. A total of 219 interviews were held. In a number of cases, several interviews were conducted with the same occupant. There was also a question about police interventions. A total of six incidents were recorded for which police assistance had to be requested. We now come to the incidents at the Bruges Gate, which is in Ghent and not in Bruges, as some think. There is a further lesson to be learned here in committee about our own country. There have indeed been street riots at the Bruges Gate in Ghent. If you ask me about the number of incidents, penalties and compensation for damage, I must refer you. You may be on the right committee, but you're not with the right minister. I must refer you to the Ministers for the Interior and Justice. I cannot go into individual files either. DVZ has been working closely with local authorities and police forces in certain cities for a long time. The aim is certainly to play briefly on the ball in the case of nuisance files and also to work as far as possible on the pre-identification of illegal aliens, so that they can be removed quickly and with as short a stay as possible in a closed centre. Mrs Van Bossuyt, as you point out, DVZ is indeed working with a liaison officer in Ghent. There is close cooperation with the various services of the city of Ghent. That was done during my previous term of office. So between 2011 and 2014, we installed that system. There is cooperation with the various services of Ghent, i.e. with the services of the city, the police area and the public prosecutor. The liaison officer not only works, but is also assisted in the preparation of the files in her duties by other DVZ colleagues. Cooperation and communication with the Ghent police area on address checks are smooth and correct. Within the forced return, the illegal nuisance bombers, who often have no known address, are given absolute priority. That category is rarely in possession of identity documents. For the purpose of repatriation, therefore, an identification should also be obtained from them. Through close cooperation with both the Ghent police zone and the public prosecutor, efforts are being made to identify those involved as soon as possible. When a positive identification is received, it is immediately passed on to the police zone of Ghent, so that that zone can track down the persons concerned and keep signals as to DVZ. Since November 2019, more specific work has also been carried out at the Bruges Gate's nuisance bombers. Since the start of the SEFOR project, DVZ has participated in several actions, including monthly actions targeting nuisance bombers. A number of persons have already been repatriated and there are also some people staying in closed centres for disposal. Of course, the detention possibilities have been more limited in recent months due to the corona crisis. However, the pre-identification shall continue. If those involved continue to hang around, they will be caught. Finally, Mrs Van Bossuyt, the additional resources that you asked for and which my predecessor allocated to these types of functions were aimed at supporting the Channel Plan in response to the attacks. Even though Ghent has navigable water, that Channel Plan and the funds provided then did not strike Ghent in any way. As a result, we do not have the possibility of extending the number of hours for the liaison officer. With regard to the orders to leave the territory, I can tell you that they are still being delivered. From 18 March to 31 May, the orders are 5,421. The persons who receive an order must leave the country whenever possible. That has remained unchanged. In addition, third-country nationals who are unable to leave Belgium due to the COOVID crisis may submit a reasoned application to extend the time limit for their orders. Mr. Moutquin, about your question about students. Whether it is an EU or non-EU student, each case is examined individually, examining the length of stay, the number of months during which the student received income from integration, his family situation and social ties in Belgium. The EU student always participates in an interview before the end of his/her stay. He has the opportunity to explain his personal situation to the Agency. This whole procedure takes several months. On the other hand, students can always use their guarantor(s) to prove their livelihood. In March and April 2020, nine orders to leave the territory were issued to EU students who represented an unreasonable burden on the social assistance system. This unreasonable burden existed, however, even before the outbreak of the VOCID-19 pandemic. I come to the question of vulnerable people. The services are obviously very attentive to the vulnerability of those concerned, which could increase as a result of the coronavirus. We are talking about people living in particularly difficult circumstances. It is therefore important to pay close attention to this. The Agency has always remained operational. Applications and files continued to be reviewed and decisions made. Crisis or not, the files are always subject to an individual examination, during which the personal situation of the foreigner is analysed. The examination shall be carried out on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the history of the case and the possible impact of the health crisis on the situation. Orders to leave the territory continued to be issued. However, foreigners who are unable to leave Belgium because of the crisis may submit a reasoned request to extend the period of their order to leave Belgium. FEDASIL will continue to apply the host law, in that it pays particular attention to vulnerable groups, as is already the case outside of periods of coronavirus. The law provides that the right of reception ends when the order to leave the territory expires. An extension may be requested if the conditions laid down in the host law are met or if the resident cooperates in a future return by subscribing to the voluntary return program. It is clear that the current circumstances are being taken into account. Then I turn to the question about the minors of the Greek islands. All necessary measures have been taken for the reorganization of the MENA coming from Greece. Currently, the three competent administrations (Fedasil, Office for Foreigners, CGRA) are in contact with the European Commission as well as the Greek administration and EASO to ensure the implementation of the Belgian Government's commitment to relocate eighteen unaccompanied foreign minors from Greece. I must not tell you that the virus was also present in Greece and that local governments have had a lot of difficulties. Nevertheless, the Greek authorities must assess the best interests of each of the MENA with the help of UNHCR and EASO. Of the 1,600 MENA that will be relocated from Greece to other Member States, only 450 have already been assessed. On this basis, EASO will then have to allocate the candidates for relocation between the Member States, according to their commitments. This distribution of cases is under way in Belgium. The arrival of MENA will have to be effective by the end of July. At the end of July, the first unaccompanied minors from the Greek islands will arrive here. They are first collected here in a reception and orientation centre. In view of the exceptional situation in Greece, Belgium wants to show solidarity and make an extra effort, but it is clear that structural solutions are also required here. Ad hoc boat search solutions, crisis after crisis, does not turn out to be efficient. Last week I had a video conference with the competent European Commissioner, Mrs Ylva Johansson. It is now working out a plan of structural solutions. I have once again advocated solidarity between the Member States and a fairer sharing of burdens. In order to make this possible, there must be a monitoring exercise showing the efforts made by the various countries, compared to the whole effort at European level. Where monitoring demonstrates that a country is under disproportionate pressure, structural solidarity mechanisms should enter into force. However, efforts must also be fairly divided between the countries that are on the outside of the European Union and the destination countries, as we are one, which receive more than their fair share of applications. The aim is for each country to make its fair contribution to efforts in the reception and registration of asylum seekers. This has certainly been the case in the past year. Belgium received 1,220 unaccompanied minors in 2019. After Greece and Germany, we have reached that position. In the past year, there has also been a steep rise in the trend towards unaccompanied minors. To cope with this evolution of the influx, Fedasil has invested in additional places for this target group. Mr De Vriendt, you usually have good information about available places, but this time it is not correct. Fedasil has 275 conflicted places within youth aid to the communities. Today, 233 of these places are operational; 42 of these places, 10 of Flanders and 32 of Wallonia, are not available. We have asked the communities to provide the places as soon as possible and to make them actually available. The capacity utilisation rate of these places is just above 90%. Given the high capacity utilisation rate, it is necessary to ensure that in the coming months there will also be sufficient places for vulnerable unaccompanied minors who register as asylum seekers or non-asylum seekers in Belgium. Therefore, communities were asked to provide a maximum and rapid flow to the regular reception network of special youth assistance or to foster families. We want to show our commitment to Greece, given the very difficult situation, but it is not up to Belgium to make further commitments now before a more structural solution can be agreed at European level. We've been picking up a lot of people, too. Mr Loones, you had another question about the centre in Koksijde. There was a meeting with the mayor. I'll keep my appointments. He's expecting a lot of vacationers there or he's got plans for that site. At least the deal was until the end of June. I think people have already moved. We are trying to keep the children who go to school there until the end of the school year. This is not an easy position for us, but it is clear that these people are not very welcome there. Indeed, there has not been a major outbreak of COOVID-19. There is therefore no need and no agreement between the municipality and Fedasil to test residents, unless the center itself deems it necessary. Mr Segers, those children will be welcomed in the reception, observation and orientation centre and will be given a guardian there and the further journey will end. The return has been resumed, both in Dublin and in the country of origin. DVZ also plans to publish returns figures on its website from next week, for the sake of transparency. Then we'll be able to follow how that goes up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your very comprehensive answers. Indeed, we still have some time for the replies of everyone who is still there. I propose to reserve two minutes of reply per speaker, but I will be flexible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u18	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answers. All the questions have been very well addressed, which does not mean that I always agree with the answers. I understand that there are no infections in the closed centres and that the number of infections in the open centres has increased to 130. However, the specific question dealt with the figure of the centre in Kapellen. It was not intended to circumvent a written question, but to get a state of affairs. There were 81 infections on April 30th, a week later this was 110. You say the situation is under control. It would be appropriate for you to give the figure. What about those infections over there? You have made it clear that the container that has been added has not increased the capacity, but can guarantee a better distance. Of course, we agree with that. I do think there has been a lot of disinformation about the release. First of all, you clearly denied that it was about people with P.R.'s who wanted to disrupt public order. Then your services said it was about that. You say the services were wrong. Then maybe it's a P.V. for public drunkenness after all. You say we need to get some figures with a written question. I will not fail to ask for a good overview of this, so that we finally have clarity about who was released and what those people had on their hands. I think this is far too important. You didn't answer my question about the succession either. However, I have asked you several times. You have released a large number of people who were actually at the end of a journey. They had no right of residence and already ignored several orders to leave the territory. Is that being followed up properly? Where are these people staying now? Are they being led back to the closed center, as repatriations are being systematically driven up again? We certainly need to talk about that. You say that the number of repatriations is increasing again. You mentioned a number, but the connection was bad at the time. I understand there were 50 in April. We can only welcome that. The fact that the figures are published on the DVZ website will also help us to include our parliamentary task. Thank you very much for that. There were no less than six incidents involving police assistance. That's really reprehensible. Once again, we are talking about people who do not even have a right of residence and who are staying here illegally, but who are also coming to the market to make amok. I expected a much clearer signal from you, and I had hoped that you would draw a much clearer map from our security services. These people have indeed been deported and punished; the damage has indeed been compensated, but that is why we do not have to deal with an individual case, as you say. I must say, however, that after today's committee meeting I am absolutely not reassured. As far as voluntary return is concerned, you referred to the example of Germany. That country has managed to allow many Syrians to return voluntarily. You're saying it's not that simple and you're looking at the case. Could you please focus on that a little bit more? If the Germans can do it, why not us? To sum up, as you said yourself, it is difficult to build shelters. I must agree with you on that, at least in your policy. After all, you are very committed to increasing the influx. You did that very strongly for the corona crisis, and in the meantime you have taken very few measures to limit that influx. In such a policy, it is perhaps best not to reduce the number of places. However, it would be better if we could finally get to work on proposals which would limit influx. The proposals of the N-VA Group are ready, we have already tabled many. Please do something about that. Then we can begin to cut down the places to be taken care of and the taxpayer does not have to contribute more and more resources. This must, of course, be accompanied by a successful expulsion policy. You say that your predecessor's policy was unsuccessful because fewer people were taken back to the closed centre. You mentioned 62 %. You forget to mention that this was about the period in which the centres were used to tackle the problem of the transmigrants. However, if we look at the successful expulsion and repatriation rates, we have to establish in all objectivity that your predecessor, Theo Francken, has done much more. He can put in much higher grades than you can. But, Mrs. De Block, it's not too late. The formation of the government continues to drag on. So you still have time to work on it. As you do, I will also look into the geography of the region of Ghent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u19	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Unfortunately, I have missed a fairly large part of your answer because I had to leave the Chamber for a while. That's why it wouldn't be fair for me to replicate extensively here. I'll read the report. I heard the part about Cooksijde. In any case, I welcome the effort to allow schoolchildren to finish their school year. That's the least of it. I also asked you a broader question about how you deal with local mayors. Cooksijde is not a success story. Bredene is. There has been very correct information. The neighborhood residents are also involved. This is clearly not the case in Koksijde. That is why I asked the question how you want to deal with flagrant disinformation distributed by local authorities, mayors. Should we not act more actively and communicate more actively in order to present the right facts? I would like to ask you this question. Can you answer that? After all, the situation could repeat itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u20	Madam Minister, first of all, allow me to congratulate all of your services because we had the opportunity to hear them at the hearings last week. Whatever one might say or think, everything is certainly not perfect. We are not in an ideal world, but they have all assumed their responsibilities in a difficult context. They have assumed their duties. The statistics also show responsible management given the rate of positive cases below 1% in reception centres. I would particularly like to congratulate the actors involved in the reception of these applicants for international protection, of which Fedasil is the guarantor. I say "bottom hat!" I wouldn't have wanted to make the decisions for them. They took them. They took care of them. I am convinced that they have done the best they can. They are, in my opinion, heroes too. We must not neglect it. The reception had to be pursued and they did. I am satisfied with many of the answers you have provided. I did not expect you to answer everything and agree on everything, but overall, I must admit that I am satisfied with the answers. On the other hand, I am being challenged by the implementation of forced returns to Brazil, a country where the pandemic is exploding following a completely fanciful management of its president. I am shocked that there is a possibility of a forced return of women and men to this country where there is known to be a significant health risk. I ask you to consider suspending forced returns to those countries which could pose a health risk. Why not consider a moratorium? This does not mean that we refuse forced returns. This means that it may be good for health and humanitarian reasons to suspend such returns, which could put people at risk. We must take all the necessary measures now to accommodate without delay, Madam Minister. I understand, of course, the need to take health measures, but when the deadline is four, five, ten days to register and, therefore, to be welcomed into our network, it is all women and men who are on the street in difficult conditions. I think that we can consider other measures such as imposing the wearing of the mask on everyone, orienting towards structures, where there will be quarantines. In any case, I really invite you to consider these emergencies. As far as MENA is concerned, I am completely shocked by this European policy. I do not know what Europe's partners do not mean in the "humanitarian emergency" messages, but to consider implementation by 31 July or 1 August is completely aberrant when the very motivation of the measure was the health emergency. I'm not throwing the stone at you. I wonder. What is this Europe doing? When is she going to act a little bit and be consistent in her actions with her speeches? Thank you, Minister, for your comments on Coxide, which I can only highlight and salute. Thank you, too, for your comments on caution for the future. We must not embark on a tempting path, as your predecessor did, i.e. close the reception facilities quickly and save money. I hear some colleagues who persist in saying that it was good practice to support this policy, which has been ineffective, and which has cost us millions of euros by a deliberate choice. In any case, all citizens bear the consequences, including financial consequences, today. Many men and women had to bear the human consequences as well. Minister, I would like to thank you for your comments. I hope that you will be heard and that you will bring these proposals to the Council of Ministers. When we need credits to maintain a margin, a reserve to provide a human welcome, I hope your colleagues will be able to pay attention to your need. Be convinced that I will not fail to abound in your sense. Thanks again to you and all your teams for the work you are doing and good work for the rest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u21	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Indeed, I appreciate the fact that you recall some of the behaviors of mayors towards asylum seekers, and that you denounce them, as well as the maintenance of a fear that is stimulated and that has no reason to be. I confess I did not understand your allusion to the irony that I would have shown in relation to the seats in Fedasil centers. Actually, I didn't ask you any questions about Fedasil. Don't hesitate to send me your tip by e-mail so I can look at it. Concerning the Office of Foreigners, in fact, the world of now is not the world before. We're not asking you to do exactly as before. I would like to join you in the protection of the staff of the Aliens Office and the asylum seekers themselves. You're absolutely right. It is true that putting 40 to 50 people in the same room is a danger. However, I would like to point out that if lines are repeated for lack of information, it would also be a danger. I can assure you, for being on the field by being careful, that many people do not hold the information. Work can be improved to bring information to asylum applicants in Belgium. I do not point directly at you, but things need to be considered with NGOs and partners on the ground. Could the municipalities not play a role and carry out pre-registration on a voluntary basis, because it would also not be necessary for the municipal administrations to be overworked. This could be a solution to prevent asylum seekers from moving too much to Belgium. It's a lead to implement. A compromise could be recording only MENA physically to ensure that everything is done at that level. With regard to closed centres, I would like to remind you that my question was only about NGOs and not about parliamentarians. In this regard, I would like to say that I do not agree with your statement concerning parliamentarians. That's amazing! It's the world upside down! I would remind you that, two months ago, I asked you a question on the subject. Then you explained to me that I was irresponsible. As a young Member of Parliament, I have therefore followed your remarks and have no longer gone to the closed centre. In the meantime, I have sent two letters to the Aliens Office to find out when to return to the closed centres and have received no reply. I have tabled three parliamentary questions on this subject and I have not had an answer because your agenda does not allow it, which I fully understand. And today, you're telling us that it's got to rest the question and that we could go to the closed centre for a month. I'm pretty glad we could go back to the closed centre, but my question really was whether NGOs could go back too. In relation to the relocation of minors, I am not sure that our figures are contradictory. Fedasil expressed that what was problematic was the second take-over after a first take-over. That's where there was a shortage of seats. I therefore submit to you again the proposal to rework on foster care, which, by definition, has certainly a larger number of places.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u22	Madam Secretary, I think you've slipped a little bit. You mentioned the closure of the asylum centre in Koksijde at the end of July, which should be at the end of June.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u23	No, no, late June.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u24	Yes, but you spoke of July. I wanted to see that confirmed again, which is why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u25	That was a deal. I don't want another rocket leaving Koksijde tonight, so it's the end of June.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u26	That is why I say it again very explicitly, so that there is no doubt about it. I also support the fact that you will contact Fedasil to see how these children can finish their school year with their classmates. That is the least we can do for these babies before they can move again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u27	Madam Minister, you say that it is unacceptable for a centre to be closed down and for children to be refused education. I am pleased that you are expressing your opinion on this, because acting so hard against an asylum centre where security was perfectly guaranteed is a hard attempt to put asylum seekers in a bad light. We must not systematically target populations and deal with them more strictly than others. That really can't be the intention. As for my question about the online registration form, we understand that measures have been taken to adapt the physical notification due to the corona crisis, but there are of course no solutions for some situations. Like other colleagues, I spoke in my introduction about the distressing problems mentioned yesterday in the article in Knack. It is then up to voluntary organisations such as Refugee work to deal with the problems of the failing system. I'll repeat that again. With regard to the accessibility of the online registration form, you say that you will continue to work on points that can be improved, but you do not specify exactly which of these pain points are. You say that the measures to be notified will be relaxed step by step. That is another very vague answer. What's the timing of this? How will this be dealt with in concrete terms? I would have expected a more concrete answer here. I hope you will soon do something to optimize the registration system. I also hope that there will be an exit strategy for this group in society that is having a particularly difficult time. I think you have not answered my last question about the employment of foreign nationals in a specific situation of residence. Is that right? Mrs. De Block, can you check that out for me? Did you hear my question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u28	I'll give you all the answers after the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u29	That's good. So much for my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u30	Madam Secretary, in order to avoid any confusion in the future, we should not talk about the Bruges Gate anymore, but about the "Drug Gate," because that's how she is known in Ghent. When we talk about the "Drug Gate," everyone knows what we're talking about. You say in your answer: there are still a few people out there and they will be caught. I don't really think that's the way we should talk about such illegal criminals. They just need to be picked up and kicked out of the country as soon as possible. The fact that you minimize this problem raises serious questions for me. My question as to whether it is possible to extend the function of liaison officer remains valid. I think the usefulness of this has certainly been demonstrated. You say to Mrs Daems that you answer everything, but you also did not answer my question whether the city of Ghent asked DVZ to focus more on housing checks. Just like the city of Ghent, DVZ blames that only 15% of residential controls are carried out in Ghent. This is not proportionate to the number of orders to leave the territory. This is very low. According to the city of Ghent, that lies with DVZ, but if you do not answer, I assume that this is not due to DVZ but to the city of Ghent, which is not sufficiently committed to housing controls. You did not answer a number of questions, because many figures were asked and because the questions were put late. I checked that and my question was submitted on 2 June. That was two weeks ago, so there's plenty of time to look up those numbers. I will re-table them as a written question in order to obtain concrete answers and figures in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u31	Madam Secretary, would you like to add something to your reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u32	Mr President, with regard to Mr De Vriendt's questions, communication and the exchange of information between the mayors and governors and Fedasil is a continuous matter. I said, and you can read that in the answer, that if there is a positive case or there is a conflict or whatever, the mayor will be called immediately. Both the services of Fedasil and our people in the centers, usually the center director, keep the lines open well with the local authorities and, if necessary, also with the governor. As far as the removals are concerned, today 14 removals were carried out by the Foreign Office. So you will notice that the number is increasing again. Everything, of course, depends on the question of which flights continue again. Mr Rigot, to answer your question about returns to Brazil, I can tell you that in May there were 107 voluntary returns and 7 forced returns over a period of two months. It can therefore only be seen that the number of voluntary returns is higher than the number of forced returns and that returns to Brazil are not impossible. Mr Moutquin, visits by parliamentarians can take place in closed centres. Measures to that end had also been taken for family members. For lawyers, visits have always been possible. As far as NGOs are concerned, NGOs are not yet allowed to visit them, but this will come. Mrs Daems, as far as the exit strategy is concerned, many people are indeed struggling. But residents of collections are very vulnerable and so we maintain measures to protect them and our staff. In addition, DVZ is examining more and more registrations, taking into account the measures needed to be able to work safely, so that neither people nor our staff are infected. Mrs Van Bossuyt, I am absolutely not minimising this. I'm not running away from my responsibility either. I'll do what I can, depending on the circumstances. I've been through a lot in the department and the corona crisis has caused a lot of work. During this post-corona period, work will resume as soon as possible and as far as possible. House checks always take place in consultation with the city's police forces. Ended persons may be picked up on the street and taken to a closed centre. The percentage you mentioned refers to residential entrances, which is not easy either. Whoever was arrested on the street had already been logged and identified in advance. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic212x.u33	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55003714C, 55003952C, 55004335C, 55003713C, 55003716C and 55005723C 55003466C, 55003591C, 55003592C and 55003593C by Mrs Matz are converted into written questions.
