ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u1	Good morning, everyone. I welcome the members of the College of Attorney General to our committee. We had agreed to invite the parquet of Charleroi and the parquet general of Bergen. A response was received from the College of Attorney General. The invitation was difficult because of the secret of the investigation, but there was an offer from the College itself to come to this committee and explain it. The President of the College of Attorneys General will be the first to speak. He has also delivered a text to our committee. It will then be placed on the extranet. Of course, there is also room for debate with the committee. Mr Delmulle is the President of the College of Attorneys General. The other participants are Mr Vandenbruwaene, Mr De Valkeneer, Mr de la Serna and Mr Dernicourt, whom we have received several times in our committee. You have the floor, Mr Delmulle.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I no longer need to introduce my colleagues. Madam President has done so. I will make a statement on behalf of the College of Attorneys General, alternating in Dutch and French. I would like to begin with three important points. First of all, on behalf of the College of Prosecutors General, I would like to express our deepest condolences to Mr Chovanec's family. We sincerely deplore his death. We deeply sympathize with the family and learned with dismay and astonishment the circumstances of his death. We, as the public prosecutor, wish to contribute to making every effort for the manifestation of the truth. Secondly, on behalf of the College of Prosecutors General, I would like to thank you, Madam President, and your committee, for immediately responding to our request for consultation as soon as possible. We are grateful for that. It is not the practice of the College of Attorneys General to directly solicit Parliament for discussion. We would like to raise with your committee today, in complete serenity and frankness, our institutional concern, which we hope to see recognised here. Thirdly, we are asking for your understanding because today we will be able to talk little or no about the circumstances of Mr Chovanec's death and what has happened in the margins of that. We will have to talk in particular about procedures and institutional concepts. We know and realise that there is a danger that some will find it next to the issue. We are aware that our request may not be equally well received everywhere. However, it is necessary. It is precisely in order to protect the successful outcome of the ongoing judicial investigation and in this way to bring to light the full and correct account of the circumstances of Mr Chovanec's death that we must today dare to talk about the role of Justice, the Supreme Court of Justice and the Committees on Justice and/or Home Affairs of the Chamber of Representatives in this investigation. It is up to the College of Attorneys General as the executive body of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and, of course, without wishing to replace the Minister of Justice, under whose authority the College is, to request and conduct this debate. That's why we're here today. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going through an open door, but it is important to point out that the circumstances that led to Mr Chovanec's death are under judicial investigation. It is therefore an investigation conducted under the direction and authority of an investigating judge who is responsible for it and who conducts it independently and impartially, prosecution and defence, considering all the elements relevant to the manifestation of the truth. In a criminal investigation, whether it is an information or a judicial investigation, a magistrate – either the King's prosecutor or the investigating judge – is the guarantor of a number of elements which your Parliament has rightly included in the Code of Criminal Investigation and which are fundamental in any State of law: the monitoring of the legality of the evidence and the loyalty with which it is collected, respect for the presumption of innocence, respect for the rights of defence of the suspect or accused, of the victim and of third parties, respect for privacy, respect for the dignity of persons, the right to a fair trial, the secrecy of the criminal investigation, the obligation to respect professional secrecy for all those who are obliged to cooperate with it and the criminalization of those who violate this secrecy. These are very important basic principles to which all of you and all of us fully and rightly subscribe. These principles apply, of course, in this case, whether the events took place in the police cell at Charleroi airport on 23 February 2018 or the Nazi salutation allegedly carried out by a police officer at that time. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been parquet magistraat for 30 years and the principles I have just mentioned have been hammered in. Don't talk about the perpetrator, but talk about the suspect. Always speak in the condition, the conditional, with "would." See the claims with "if he" and "could he" and "as far as the facts would have been proven." In French, say not 'à charge de' but 'and cause de', precisely in order to safeguard fundamental rights, such as the presumption of innocence and the right to a fair trial, until the trial on its merits. One of my former attorney generals once summarized it for me as follows. Always make sure to hear all the bells so you can judge with full knowledge and treat everyone as you would like to be treated tomorrow, if you were a suspect yourself. I've always kept that in mind. When I hear some of the so-called lawyers experts in the media on this matter today, with very little knowledge of the content of the file and often driven by personal ransoms or reasons, or some of the statements made by certain Members of Parliament, it seems to me that the trial has already been conducted and that the police have already been convicted in advance, while the investigation is still under way. Not all elements of the investigation are already known. We must beware of such bold and rash statements, especially if we want to be a rule of law not only on paper but also in our actions. That is all the more pressing, as I said, because it is an ongoing judicial investigation. The College learned that some members of the Commission would like to hear from the investigating judge, while his investigation is still under way. The prosecutor of the King of Charleroi, for his part, was invited today when he will later have to make a final decision in this case and decide in soul and conscience the orientation of the latter by requesting – or not – a referral to the correctional court. The Attorney General of Mons was also invited today in his personal capacity. He is nevertheless present at another draw, namely as a member of the College of Attorneys General. As Attorney General, you would probably have wanted to ask him questions about the length of the judicial investigation. He could not have responded, since his office will be heard on 28 September at the Mons indictments chamber in connection with an application filed by the civil party on the basis of article 136 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Indictments Chamber, which is mandated by law to monitor the conduct of judicial instructions, will now exercise this control. You will agree with me that such initiatives, because they are competing, are difficult to reconcile with ongoing judicial duties, and that it is therefore better to avoid them. The College of Attorneys General therefore asks you to let the investigating judge and the court in Charleroi do their job in all serenity in this file. In this case too, the seeker may have confidence in the Justice Department. All guidelines were followed: the camera images were protected, a investigating judge leads the judicial investigation and the Surveys department of the Standing Committee P carries out the investigations. So there is no cover-up on the part of the Justice Department and the file is not buried in Charleroi, in spite of what is all too easily posted here and there. Ladies and gentlemen, confidence in the functioning of justice is important. It is equally important that the magistrates and staff of the prosecution and of the seat, that day in, day out of the best of themselves, also feel that confidence. Unfortunately, this is not public enough. Last weekend, I read a newspaper column by Professor of Political Science Carl Devos, in which he describes our democratic rule of law as the most precious fabric of our political community and states that certain criticisms by political leaders give back wind to those who want to break that fabric. I think he's right. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the above, I would now like to share with you two important considerations. The first concerns the role of the Supreme Council of Justice. As recently as last year, the Parliament adopted a law inserting article 259bis/16 into the Judicial Code, allowing the Committee of Opinion and Inquiry of the Supreme Council of Justice to conduct a specific investigation into the functioning of the judicial order, excluding any criminal and disciplinary jurisdiction. This law came into force this year. It is based on article 151, paragraph 3, of the Constitution, which gives the Supreme Council of Justice jurisdiction to investigate the functioning of the judicial order, excluding any disciplinary or criminal jurisdiction. The Commission of Opinion and Inquiry shall conduct the investigation under the direction of a member of the judiciary and may go down to the premises in order to make all relevant findings – without, however, being able to search –, consult and have judicial records produced without displacement for the purpose of becoming aware of them, taking extracts and copies or having them provided free of charge, hearing the members of the judicial order and any person whose hearing is useful for the investigation for information purposes – if any, under oath. In this context, the person heard is authorized to file statements that are covered by professional secrecy. The Commission of Opinion and Inquiry has decided to conduct such a specific investigation into the course of judicial proceedings in this case. In particular, a team led by a member of the judiciary will investigate the following elements. First, how was the judicial record specifically opened? Second, how is the file going? Thirdly, to what extent did the monitoring mechanisms intervene? Fourthly, what about communication between the judicial and police authorities? As always, a particular investigation by the Supreme Council of Justice concerns possible structural malfunctions, not individual responsibilities. This is the first time that the Supreme Council of Justice has conducted a specific investigation into a judicial case that has not yet been closed. He is well aware of the delicate nature of his investigation, since he stresses that the independence of the judiciary is essential to the functioning of the rule of law. The College is pleased to read in the Communication of the Supreme Council of Justice that "any criminal judicial procedure and any particular investigation must be able to proceed calmly." Therefore, the Supreme Council of Justice will not provide any information on the development of the particular investigation until it is completed. This particular investigation is under way. The hearings of the members of the Charleroi Public Prosecutor's Office are already scheduled this week. The College of Attorneys-General is asking that the Justice Commission should await the outcome of that special investigation, for which Parliament has recently extended the powers of the Supreme Court to the Justice Department. An example can explain the need for this. The King's Attorney of Charleroi was invited today to be heard by the Justice Commission. However, he was the one who stepped down on the spot with the investigating judge on 27 February 2018, with members of the Surveys department of the Standing Committee P and with the local police. He will therefore be heard in the context of the special investigation of the Supreme Court of Justice. It is only logical that he should reserve his explanation for that particular investigation. The second consideration is that, of course, Parliament can still decide to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Its advantage is undeniably that the legal framework within which Parliament intervenes in this ongoing criminal case is more clearly defined. For example, article 4 of the Parliamentary Investigations Act of 3 May 1880 provides that the House or the Commission, and their chairpersons to the extent that they are entitled to do so, may take all the investigative measures described in the Code of Criminal Investigation. A parliamentary commission of inquiry therefore has the same means of investigation as an investigating judge, but with a different purpose. The investigation and prosecution of criminal offences are, of course, not his case. Nor can such a commission of inquiry intervene in the areas of competence assigned by the Constitution to other public institutions or powers and therefore cannot interfere with the tasks reserved by Article 151, § 1, of our Constitution for judges and the Public Prosecutor's Office. Article 1, paragraph 2, of the Act of 3 May 1880 provides since 1996 that investigations initiated by the House of Representatives do not replace investigations by the judiciary. They may take place jointly but must not hinder their progress. The law provides a clearer framework for all hearings of police officers and magistrates scheduled before a parliamentary commission of inquiry than for hearings as currently organised by your Committee on Justice and/or the Interior. For example, police officers and magistrates are not allowed to make statements covered by professional secrecy before a Justice and/or Interior Commission, while they are before a parliamentary commission of inquiry. However, it should be pointed out that, even in the context of the possible establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry, the utmost caution should be exercised as it will in any case continue to interfere with an ongoing judicial inquiry. Therefore, if your Committee on Justice wishes to organise further hearings of police officers or magistrates on the death of Mr Chovanec, who is the subject of an ongoing judicial investigation, the College proposes to do so in the framework of a parliamentary commission of inquiry and not in that of ordinary sessions of the Committee on Justice and/or the Interior. At least then the legal framework and position of each will be clearer. If your committee decides to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry, the Public Prosecutor's Office will cooperate fully with it. Finally, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the declaration of so-called immorality to police discipline, your committee and the media have been discussing for weeks whether a formal declaration to disciplinary authorities should have been made and, where appropriate, by whom, the Minister, the Federal Police, the Standing Committee P, the Prosecutor of the King or anyone else. The College of Attorneys-General considers that the results of the special examination by the Supreme Court of Justice and the monitoring of the Standing Committee P should first be awaited. Moreover, communication between the judicial authorities and the police is just one of the four points examined by the Supreme Court of Justice. The College will therefore not go into this further today. However, the College is certainly prepared to discuss the findings and recommendations contained in the reports here in committee, where appropriate together with the Supreme Court of Justice. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the College of Attorneys-General felt it was his institutional duty to share with you his concerns about the interference of your work with an ongoing judicial investigation, about the demarcation of the powers of the Committee on Justice and/or the Committee on Home Affairs, which are not parliamentary committees of inquiry, and about the special investigation of the Supreme Court of Justice. The College believes that the work of your committee should be prevented from replacing or endangering the judicial investigation. The College of Attorneys would also appreciate it if the other powers, Parliament and the government, would express more confidence in the judiciary and in the many other actors of justice, who often do their work more than properly every day in the shadow of the secret of the investigation. Above all, the College of Attorneys-General asks that the investigating judge and the prosecutor of the King be able to concentrate further on finding out the truth and the exact cause of Mr Chovanec's most regrettable death.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u3	I'll take a look at the committee members.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u4	Members of the College, I would like to thank you in advance for coming here and for the presentation that has been made. I think we were all secretly hoping for something more. You specifically ask to have faith in the Justice Department. You don't know how much I'd like to say, "Yes! Let's do this! Let us trust in it." That's what I'd like to yell at. I understand that everyone has to do their job and that the investigation is still ongoing. This is also a matter of concern and reservations from the committee when we decided who we wanted to hear here. We did try to make a distinction. There is the investigation on the one hand, and a number of legal obligations of the prosecution when it comes to the knowledge of certain disciplinary facts on the other. We have made that consideration. I also very much understand the question of respecting the investigation, the rights of everyone in it, and of having confidence in justice. But, as much as I would like to, I have to say that the family concerned does not have that trust anymore today. I do not want to make a statement on this in one direction or another. But it goes so far that everything is in public today: the images, the research, reports. All this has been made public for a long time. There must be a reason why there is not much trust here. I am aware that justice is not easy in terms of resources, challenges and infrastructure. But if the trust of the Justice Department is called for, I think that the Justice Department should also put a hand in its own bosom. That's not a swing at you personally. I'm talking about the Global Block of Justice. Today it is this case, there is also the statute of limitations in the Fortis case, there are many other things. It is difficult to ask a society in that context to give full confidence. It is therefore not so obvious to us as representatives of the people. On the one hand, we want to help and respond to this. Besides, we were also accused as representatives of the people that we did not ask questions on the basis of the press release of two years ago. In this respect, confidence in us has also been damaged. So it's not very obvious. In the meantime, we already have a whole circus behind us. That was justified in certain respects, because there is a great deal to be outraged about in this dossier. It is striking, and I must say this for a moment, that the commotion stopped after it became clear that there was a report that was more concise and that the facts were more concise than they really were, and that there were images, which were clear that certain people who had not seen, but had to crawl through the dust, also in this room. It was clear that they did not know these images and only now get to know the real facts. However, with the information that we get and which has also been published in the media, and which has been confirmed by many actors here, including the Minister of Justice, we have to note that the public prosecutor and the researchers had these images very quickly. There is a legal obligation to inform the authorities competent to determine disciplinary action. I understand your comments and concerns. I think we all share them. We certainly do not want to interfere with the judicial investigation. We certainly don't want to make it quadruple. That is the last thing we want, because then it is even more problematic for justice. I understand that very well. However, we do know today that these images were there. They were impounded. Some have seen it and have not at that time considered it necessary to report it, which is nevertheless a legal obligation, to the authorities which could do something about it, to at least ensure that a number of measures could already be taken with regard to the agents concerned, guilty or not guilty, insofar as the facts were proven, as you also write. It has been decided not to do so. According to the Minister, at our first meeting a few weeks ago, it was because the press release as such was not alarming. We all know that feeling as representatives of the people, because it did not alert us to that extent 2.5 years ago. We can now be angry at ourselves for that and wonder why. There is, of course, the difference that we did not confiscate images and had no knowledge of them. And those images shed quite a different light on the matter. Even though there is still an investigation pending into what really happened, with context, guilt and innocence: I accept that and I want to respect that, but there was a tool to address that. And you didn't have to go public. And that would never have crossed the court's investigation. I'll just sit there and starve to death after your speech. I wonder to what extent, on the one hand, the research which I am already concerned about, after all that has appeared in the media, should be conducted. On the other hand, there was a certain obligation, which rested on the prosecutor's office, which was not met for any reason whatsoever. I cannot be satisfied with the statement that the press release did not concern you, because that body had knowledge of these images and also fairly quickly. I was really hoping that we could get a little more answers to that. I understand that it is delicate, but I am not entirely convinced that the answer to that particular question would interfere with the judicial investigation. I am not talking about the investigation at the Supreme Court, because that is two different matters for me. I want to try to understand, and I'm stuck with questions. To do this, we need to get the right information. It is not today, then certainly later, to restore confidence in Justice. If we can explain and explain the case, we, as representatives of the people, can also re-promote that trust. That is your job and the job of the public prosecutor, and it should also be our job. But as long as there is no trust, it is a difficult process to rebuild. That is my most important question today. In any case, this will have to be clarified. If you really want confidence restored, we need to understand the matter. However, we all have to ask ourselves why we have not responded more. That's a question that everyone has to ask themselves. I assume that those who already had the right information, with a much more extensive report and the images, will also be wondering. However, for me, that is completely separate from the judicial investigation. Maybe there's a very good reason. And if so, the whole circus will stop immediately today. Then we'll know. But now it's gonna stick around and keep asking. I am therefore not reassured. Apart from that, I want to cooperate in all possible ways that are in our power to restore confidence in justice. At the same time, the judiciary must take certain steps. We can provide some tools, legislation and so on, but justice itself will also have to do some things. Unfortunately, there are many reports in the media that lead to a different perception on the part of the public, and I regret that as much as you do. So if you could say anything about the reasons for not taking action at the time, that would be a useful step.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u5	Mr President, thank you for responding to a request that was not addressed to you but that allows us to go further. From your hearing, I understand that you felt it necessary to reframe the work of this committee with this masterful lesson in the separation of powers and certain fundamentals. I have already repeated this in this committee, I think that today the whole world knows that I am not a lawyer and yet I also know these principles. I am very comfortable because I was among those who were not convinced by these hearings, precisely for the reasons you mentioned. You can read the work again. However, this does not prevent me from being questioned by the process, in the sense that the colleagues who asked for these hearings – we had an exchange of precisely what you gave – justified them by a communication that was made at the time with elements that surprised us all because the investigation was under way; but these elements allowed us to fit into something that had been established by this communication itself. That is why the request was made. You are referring to the committee of inquiry and you are inviting us to continue our work in this format. I can follow you even if it's a little early. Let's wait for the rest of the work! In the current format, applicants have the opportunity to refuse the hearing precisely for the reasons you refer to. I want proof that you're here and not them. If it has been considered that we have not respected our prerogatives, the fact that you have invited the requested persons not to come makes it possible to place the framework. The danger as you mention it and which may be real seems to me to be framed here, paradoxically, by the format that occupies us since these people have made the choice not to come while you are present today. As I said, I am personally very comfortable because in my interactions with ministers, what I have focused on at this stage is the work of Parliament, which is to control the work of the executive rather than the investigation itself. What did the ministers know? What did they do or not? It is true that when a minister comes in this context, in this case Mr Geens, and he announces to us at the time of his hearing, that the day before, the investigating judge decides to organise a reconstitution that had been refused years earlier, it is quite disturbing in the context of the discussions that we have here. It is therefore not possible to question, without going into the details of the investigation, the procedures followed or not followed and the reasons for this, particularly in the relationship with the policy. Here I think that we remain in Parliament's prerogatives, namely the control of the interactions between politics and the investigations in this case. As much as I can follow you on the whole of your presentation, I can also tell myself that, no doubt, what is being played here is an additional element, a drop that makes the vase overflow at some point. So you want to reframe what's going on here. I understand you're not revealing any elements of the investigation. But I still regret that at no time can you consider, without questioning the presumption of innocence, that something seems to have happened or that something has not gone well. When you refer to the compromise of the investigation by holding our work here, I have said, I confirm, I share this concern. But when I heard you, I wondered if you didn't think she had already been very compromised. We are two and a half years after the facts and we are nowhere, while all the elements are there. And it could have gone one way or the other. We could have completely cleared the actors of this sad episode, or all the other way around. I'm not taking a stand. As far as the group I represent is concerned, trust is not broken. First of all, we believe that responsibility is political. What means are available to the justice system to do its work, etc. So we will never charge the administration or services without taking stock of our own responsibilities. Trust is therefore not broken, but for this specific issue, it is difficult to close your eyes to what has happened. The presentation you have just given us, once again without questioning the presumption of innocence, does not at any time say that the work will be done on a charge and on a defence, that questions are legitimately asked and that the answers will be provided, even if they may not correspond to what is expected. There, the question of trust is involved. We have seen, in the hearings in particular, rather on the inside side, that in fact there is a corporatist reflex, I want to say, which sows the trouble. I think that trust is played on this: on the ability, at some point, to stop and recognize that something is happening. We can hardly imagine, with the elements at our disposal, that everything went well. It would be huge not to admit that at some point, if not individual responsibilities, if not bad will, if not... at last I will hear everything, but it does not seem to me that things have happened normally. It is all the more true that we would never have dealt with the question if, for example, Mr Chovanec's wife had not done "the hay", to say a little familiarly, around this case. Without going into the investigation itself, there are still various elements that justify the question of what happened and what political responsibility, and then, in a second stage, the responsibility of each of the participants in the mission. While I have not felt concerned, I am rather uncomfortable with the intervention that is being done. It's kind of like you're saying, "Circulate, there's nothing to see." I can't hear that at this point, anyway. Let everyone do their job and we will probably have an opportunity to get back to it. It is true that my wish is not for us to lead to a committee of inquiry. I say it very clearly. That would mean that it is a failure at every level, including at the political level, I repeat. I think it is by agreeing on the initial findings and, after that, by accepting the conclusions of the work that will be done, that we can restore the mutual trust that has been broken in this case, if it has been broken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for giving us this ex-cathedra course. But the question here, in my view, is not necessarily the right one. It is not precisely defined. The question is not whether the commission will play the role of the investigating judge and whether it will investigate the case and whether it will be exculpatory. The question is not whether this commission will play the role of the board of council, that of the indictment chamber, not even whether there should be dismissal – and no one knows it today – that of the correctional court and thus define or not a guilt. It is not that question that arises. As my colleague has said, the question today is to determine which controls Parliament can carry out when a systemic malfunction or, at least, a serious malfunction in a particular case appears to occur. That is what this is about today. To repeat the genesis, because not everything is correct in the presentation that was made to us, we did not decide or discuss a hearing of the investigating judge. The name has been proposed, to take that example, but, in my view, all my colleagues are responsible. Two weeks ago, when we decided on hearings, it appeared to us immediately and unanimously that the investigating judge should not be heard. Since the name of the Supreme Council of Justice had been tabled and since we had received this communication from the Supreme Council of Justice to tell us that it had finally opened this procedure, it was also clear to us that the Supreme Council of Justice should not be heard this day. Why did we make these requests for hearings? We formulated them simply because we considered that what had been said in the press could be said to Parliament. No more, no less! And I want to say that this is the most important point here because you are talking about institutional concerns. I will mention them, too. If there is secrecy of the investigation and if this secrecy is necessary, it is also necessary to question, in the relationship between two powers constituted, the information which can ultimately be shared, provided that one is freely addressed to what is now called the "fourth power", namely the press. Why can't information in the fourth power be communicated to Parliament? I am told that now the Chamber of Counsel will be seized on the basis of article 136 of the Code of Criminal Investigation. I can hear it. But I must recall that, as part of an article published on 2 September, available on the RTBF website, there was a press release that relates the entire facts. Why can't this chronology be redone, since it has been publicly recorded in a press article? A series of questions arise in this context. Reference was made to the duration of education, which was two years at this stage. Why such a long time? We talked about the perimeter of the investigation. We do not even know what the criminal qualifications are. The reconstitution was refused a year ago and is now accepted. Has the investigating judge finally been brought before him? Did the criminal qualification change as soon as the images appeared, since we saw a Nazi salvation and other things? These are items that are neither loaded nor discharged. They are not linked to the very record of the investigation or to the possible accountability of elements relating to the suspects, and could not become a bundle of clues and contribute to possible subsequent guilt. It is simply information that we wanted to have when it was mentioned in the press. Sometimes they have not been neutral and factual. It has been observed that in the press, conclusions were made: "Unlike what was claimed, there seems to be no evidence at this stage of the investigation that the actions taken by the police are the direct cause of the victim's death. In the current state of expertise, there is no evidence of signs of chest compression by police officers, which would be related to the death of the victim." These quotations are contradicted by the experts who tell us themselves that they have not yet given their report of expertise in the counter-expertise. We therefore wonder what seems to be conclusions transmitted to the press, for which we ask for explanations, and which are taken even though we are told that expert reports have not been taken. We're talking about trust! I believe that my group and many groups represented in this committee have full confidence in justice. It is manifested on a daily basis. The purpose of this is justice, Parliament, the executive, to make life and to contribute to this democracy which you defend and which we defend. This trust is complete, but in the context of total confidence, however, accountability cannot be avoided when it has become necessary. Again, I repeat, we do not ask to go into the substance of the case, to decide, to judge, but to define today the scope of this investigation, of this instruction, and the way in which it has evolved on the basis of the facts published and that, I suppose, you are able to repeat us here publicly. Why this slowness? And, for the rest, if there are elements – we can prove it enough – that would compromise the investigation, we agree not to discuss them here, since there is this secret of investigation and a criminal investigation must continue calmly. But we cannot consider that the death of a man and a publicly expressed Nazi salvation cannot be explained to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u7	On behalf of our group, I would like to thank the Attorney General who is here today for the presentation and the detailed note that we have received today. Our group supports the view that this committee should await the special investigation of the Supreme Court of Justice. It is a study, as has been rightly said, of possible structural dysfunctions. The Supreme Court has assumed its responsibilities and has launched an investigation into an ongoing investigation, which is very exceptional. On the basis of the conclusions of that investigation, the Committee on Justice will be able to decide which initiatives can or should be taken, but our group believes that we should not anticipate the results of that investigation. We want to wait for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the MR Group, I would like first of all to thank you for wanting to enter into a dialogue with Parliament. We are very committed to the separation of powers, and we agree with what is contained in your note and in your statement of authority. We are anxious to await the report of the Supreme Council of Justice as well. There is also an investigation by Committee P. We gladly accept that we then discuss the conclusions of the Supreme Council of Justice and that from there we can see in the case in question whether there are measures to be taken or lessons to be learned. It will also be necessary to examine what can be done to increase mutual trust, which is the basis for this separation of powers guaranteeing our democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u9	Gentlemen attorney general, thank you for being here. Welcome to our committee. It is always a pleasure to discuss our rule of law with you. That must also be done here. However, we also expected your colleague from Bergen here. I was a little surprised by your letter saying he wouldn't be here himself. I'll explain myself. I do not know whether you followed the committee meeting in which we considered whether we would invite the public prosecutor here and who we would invite. The committee members didn't go ice cream in one night. Of course, we know that there is a separation of powers. Of course, we know that there is the independence of research. If we did not know that, there is still the Minister of Justice who reminds us in time. However, we think it is important to be able to talk. I grew up in far West Flanders. That's where people say people speak people. We politicians are the people's first point of contact when they have questions and they certainly had questions when they saw the footage, two and a half years later. Why do I think it's important to be able to talk to the state's attorney's office? On 2 September, the Public Prosecutor sent a press release which once again raised questions for people. Of course, we cannot go into the content of the dossier here. I didn't mean to. Nor can we discuss the statements made by the bourgeois party in the press, not the question of guilt, but the various steps in the process over the past two and a half years. I think it is very important to be able to do that here. I have two pertinent questions for you. I will ask them because I get these questions from the people and because I think that an answer can be given at the moment. Firstly, as far as the images are concerned, it is obviously up to the police to carry out a disciplinary investigation. It is, of course, the task of the police to send the images to the Commissioner-General by hierarchical means. However, we have heard in this committee, through Mrs De Bolle, that there has been a serious error in this area within the police. She didn't get that footage. They didn't get to her by the hierarchical route. That's what a police investigation is now under way. We have received an answer to the question as to where these images have been hit. It was remarkable in Mrs De Bolle's explanation that she added that in other cases where there are irregular acts by police officers who are reported to the police by the police. She said she didn't get that report. For this way of working, she refers to two conversion letters, the COL4 and the COL8. These letters determine the way in which the judicial authorities inform the disciplinary authorities. I have the following questions about this. Is it true that, in accordance with these letters, the hierarchical government is informed by the public prosecutor in other cases? My question to the Bergen parquet is then of course whether this has happened in this case. If not, why not? Secondly, as far as the duration of the research is concerned, the research has been going on for two and a half years. Thanks to the explanation given by the Minister here in committee, we have been able to see what happened during that period and in the various steps. The investigation questions of the bourgeois party have always been addressed. That is very important and very good. I believe that the rights of the defence are certainly respected. A question that people ask is when the investigation will be completed. Of course, you cannot go into this in substance, but you can explain what steps need to be taken to end the investigation. That's a question that lives with a lot of people. It's a question of explanation. That explanation is important for confidence. That's what I'm gonna end up with. You are right to say that we must have confidence in the justice system. I have enormous faith in the Justice Department. This is embedded in my training and in my party, which believes that this is a foundation and that the independence of the research is also primordial, but it is also a task of the Justice Department itself to ensure that we, as representatives of the people, can share that confidence. That is why I believe that it is also up to the Justice Department to shape that trust, by creating greater openness for people at certain times. I'm willing to think further about how we can reconfirm and promote trust. However, justice will also have to look into its own bosom, in order to explain in good time to the people and not at the end of an investigation that takes two or more years. That explanation does not have to be substantive, because the independence of the research is primordial, but there can be communication about the steps that have been taken, what such a process is like, and how it will proceed. Thank you for answering my two questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u10	Madam President, I would like to thank the members of the College for being here. I don't know. I was looking forward to having a hearing here today, which we have already asked for. However, what I hear here today is that you roll the ball to us, representatives of the people. We need to have faith in the Justice Department. I'll be a little more harsh and at the same time try to be somewhat friendly. However, we need to roll the ball back. Prove there can be confidence in the Justice Department. I understand the sensitivity of the investigation. I understand that everyone is very careful with it. However, let us be honest. I hear again, for the umpteenth time, that we should not judge here whether, to put it bluntly, we should not interfere with the dossier until the investigation has been completed. However, after two and a half years, how can you say that we should have confidence, if even Minister None at a previous hearing, if I may quote him, stated that when he first read a newspaper article about the incident, he also thought that the apparatus would do his job and that he would hear about it? Honestly, he was sitting here like a bag of potatoes because he didn't know either. His umbrella had been ripped open. The next week, Mr. De Mesmaeker and Mr. De Crem brought the same story and we should have confidence in what happened? I'll be honest with you. You indicate that you do not want to go into more detail on certain points, such as the nazig soot. I'm not a lawyer, and I never will be. I'm an ex-unionist. However, if someone is standing next to someone who is dying, then whatever I would try, I would never be able to declare that that person is innocent or that I would wait for the investigation. I don't get it. What kind of investigation do you need in order to close that case? There just needs to be a zero tolerance for sexism, fascism and racism within the police. So you should have reacted very clearly and much faster. The device should have started earlier and not only after Mrs Chovanec had rightly sued the case. I'm being honest about the file. In the Chovanec case there has been a blunder at every level: in the police, in the judiciary but also in politics. It is poignant to see how everyone refuses to accept their responsibilities. A lot of alarms went off. We've heard it in the last few weeks. The common thread in recent weeks, however, was not that people do not know, but that they do not want to know. That's the bottom line. The Attorney General of Bergen and the Prosecutor of the King of Charleroi were invited to discuss the way the information on the case was shared, but you expressed your concern about that invitation and you asked the two attorneys not to come. I am looking forward to the subject of that concern. You have just mentioned a number of things, but I think we can look at them much more broadly. It's not just about the details. Today, you are relying on the importance of the investigation. We are firmly convinced that the importance of the investigation is in line with the interests of the widow, Mrs Henrieta Chovancova, but we have a strong impression that, when you point out the importance of the investigation, it is primarily about covering itself. After two and a half years, this case is still being covered up. It is a punishment for almost having to ask a parliamentary committee of inquiry to find out the truth and to hear the people involved. You can explain the procedures in a general and abstract way, but in practice it is not so convenient. It prevents us from clarifying the very serious facts that led to the death of Mr Chovanec. I ask myself some serious questions about that attitude, but I ask myself more questions. Why does the press get a lot of information about what has happened, when we get almost nothing at every hearing? We would also like to know how many investigations into deaths have already taken place following police action and how many similar facts have already been covered up as in the Chovanec case. Will you reopen other files?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u11	Madam President, in my turn, I would like to thank the attorneys for coming. You are fully present. We are pleased that you have not only sent a letter to Parliament, but that you have also made the effort to come to committee and to enter into dialogue with us. As everyone has already said, this case is right to cause a great deal of disgust and incomprehension. Our group is well aware that it is not obvious and very delicate to ask questions and get answers about an ongoing investigation. Unacceptable things have already happened in this case to us. The last thing this committee wants to do is make mistakes of its own that could jeopardize the investigation. As you yourself say, we must apply the principle of caution, because of possible interference with your ongoing investigation, but when it was decided in this committee to organise hearings, that principle was certainly noted and taken into account. I would like to emphasise this, as the previous speakers have done. We fully agree with you on the principles of the rule of law and the separation of powers, which you have explained in your speech, and on the role that everyone should play in this dossier, but also in general in investigations. For the sake of clarity, we have never intended to take your place and we have every respect for the work that Justice is doing at the moment. There are investigations at the P Committee and the Supreme Court of Justice. That last investigation will be very important to us. Our group certainly wants to wait for its outcome. However, there is one case that you have completely ignored in the introductory statement, namely your own press release on this matter. In my view, this press release is the main reason why we are organising this hearing in this committee today and why Members of this House have decided to invite the public to attend, in full awareness that we must respect the separation of powers. I suggest you reread your own press release with the glasses of an ordinary citizen or the victim's family. You yourself refer to the ongoing investigation and the fact that you are not able to communicate much, but you have made some important statements. You say in that press release: "Contrary to what has been said, at this stage of the investigation it does not appear to have been proven that police action was the direct cause of the victim's death. That's the core of the investigation. Can the police be regarded as criminally responsible for the death of the victim by her behaviour?" A little further, you write: "In the current state of expertise, there is no evidence that the chest compression exercised by the police is related to the death of the victim." When I read that, I ask myself the following question: isn't that premature from your side? You yourself are right to say that an investigation must always be carried out on a charge and a charge. You are right to say that the King's Attorney has yet to make his own claim, and that is why he is not present on this committee today. However, I wonder, and I also ask you this question, why you make such conclusions or quotes in your own press release. You are right to ask for confidence in the Justice Department today. I would like to stress once again that there is indeed a lot of hard and thorough work being done by many within the Justice Department. That does not, of course, alter the fact that, in concrete matters, such as this Chovanec case, serious questions can be put and that these questions must also be put by Parliament. If, quite rightly, one asks for trust, then a very correct and very clear communication is an important factor in that. You may have a different opinion on this, but when I read the press release that you yourself sent out, after all the commotion that has been there in the last few weeks, I do not think that you have promoted confidence in this way, quite the contrary. I hope you realize that your communication wasn't very good and didn't give you any confidence. That is perhaps the main reason why Parliament has asked to come here after all. We can indeed ask questions, regardless of the specific research, about the duration of the research and the chronology. If you do not wish to respond today, we will await the report of the Supreme Court of Justice. We have confidence in the Supreme Court of Justice and we have confidence in Justice. Finally, I would like to endorse what Mrs Slegers said. I would urge you to complete the investigation as soon as possible, with the necessary urgency and competence, so that there can finally be answers. It shouldn't last much longer. The closure of the investigation could restore confidence in the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u12	Madam President, gentlemen of the College of Attorney General, let me be clear: the main problem for my party is the poor flow of information within the police. It is very clear that a lot has gone wrong in that regard. That is where we are at the heart of the problem. In addition, I certainly have a number of questions and concerns about what happened within the Justice Department, including at the Public Prosecutor's Office. Things could have gone better there and perhaps should have gone better. That is important, because my party wants a strong government and a strong public service. They are essential to the confidence in the Justice Department. That is why I would like to have a little more insight into the practice, in general, with all due respect for the secret of research, which must not, of course, be compromised. I've asked Minister Geens a question before. He was talking about the communication of the parquet itself. I suppose I can ask another question about your own communication. I shall refer to a number of facts for illustration. Every time I ask about the general principles. You said, for example, that you would like to await the conclusions of the Supreme Court of Justice and the P Committee on the subject of disciplinary action. I will not ask about the very concrete communication between these services, but how the current rules are generally applied. In reply to my question on the famous Article 26 of the police disciplinary regulations, Minister None replied that the judicial authorities informed the disciplinary authorities of a possible disciplinary offence and that the prosecutor had replied to him that in this respect the judicial authorities no longer considered it necessary to inform the disciplinary authorities, given that the circumstances and the facts after a few days were already public due to the communication of the public prosecutor. Moreover, the events were already known to the police by means of the video footage available, via the orders given by the prosecutor and the investigating judge and through the superiors of the police officers present at the airport police. I have a number of questions about this. First, the facts themselves. I'm asking about general practice. The capture of the images took place on February 26th. I would like to know how this is done in practice in general. Is there going to be a copy taken? Are the original images impounded? When it comes to a copy, does this mean that the police in general still have access to the same footage even after the seizure? I would also like to talk about Mrs De Bolle's words in committee. If police incidents are discussed in a press release and we read that the public prosecutor is conducting an investigation into the circumstances of the intervention, she believes that the actions of the policemen concerned will be thoroughly investigated and the disciplinary authorities will be informed if necessary. While the public prosecutor refers to that same press release to explain why it didn't inform the disciplinary authorities. If there was not at least an error of assessment, I wonder now. I won't talk about the facts. I won't ask. Wouldn't it have been better if the parole board had taken care of it? I ask myself that question, especially now that it is unclear whether or not the disciplinary authorities themselves have looked at the images. Diplomacy would have been the director of the airport police, Danny Elst. It's written in the press that he wouldn't have requested the footage. Shouldn't the public prosecutor generally make fewer trade-offs in such cases when it comes to the famous Article 26 of the Disciplinary Statute and simply make a statement as far as possible to avoid such circular reasonings as far as possible? In addition, Mrs De Bolle spoke about an obligation to inform the disciplinary authorities. She mentioned two specific COLs: COL 4/2003 and COL 8/2014. I would also like to ask in general: what is your reading of these COLs? Do you think they actually hold an obligation? I also want to know how often all this is used. I understand that you have no specific figures, but is this something rare, both in Article 26 and now in the application of the COLs? Does this happen all the time? If not, will the regulation not be better adapted? If so, how? Has the court ever thought about that before, precisely to remove that ambiguity? For example, there is less need to judge the opportunity and circular reasonings such as these can be avoided. According to the media, the investigating judge was only apprehended by a bourgeois party complaint, not by a claim from the parquet magistraat. Then I wonder which rules generally apply to the parole magistrates to decide whether or not to seek an investigating judge. If such rules do not exist, what considerations could have played at the parquet magistraat in order not to seek an investigating judge? Again, I would have liked to have your general view of this. In complex cases, intensive follow-up is required. This particular case seems extremely complex. I therefore wonder what is the general practice in this regard. According to the media, the investigating judge only recently, after the storm had already exploded, agreed to the public prosecutor's request for a reconstruction. Apparently, the parole board had asked for it before, but the investigating judge refused. If I understand correctly, there was a conflicting order here. Is the court facing that conflicting order and has it appealed against it? If not, why not? Now suppose that the court in general does not appeal to such a conflicting order, I am told that it did. The College states that it should be the chamber of accusation to judge the duration of the investigation. That is legally correct, but that means that the chamber will be silenced if the public prosecutor does not take the initiative to seize the chamber. In the context of another issue, the Supreme Court of Justice has already made a number of recommendations at its general meeting of 20 February 2019 to improve the monitoring of judicial investigations. From this I quote a little bit: "...enhanced the computerized tracking system with personal contacts at the prosecution', so strengthen the follow-up system through regular interaction. I look at the system of contact magistrates for inspiration. That is why I would like to hear from the College what steps have already been taken to meet this. If it is possible, I would also have liked to have received information on this specifically with regard to the public prosecutor responsible for overseeing Charleroi. Has a similar supervision been organised in accordance with the recommendation of the Supreme Court of Justice? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u13	Gentlemen, I thank you for your presence and for this morning's presentation, although I do not hide from you a certain uneasiness in listening to this one. I feel it in two ways. First of all, as a lawyer, I can share your comments and will not react differently as a political one, because the two functions do not conflict, in this case. Indeed, we have delimited our parliamentary work so as not to violate the principles that you defend as lawyers and which I also support. This is one of the problems raised by this morning's hearing: you could make some clarifications without derogating from the principles to which you and we are committed. Today, I feel a little bit like a child caught finger in the jar of jam, since you seem to tell us that we are going beyond our mission, with regard to the separation of powers, the presumption of innocence, etc. I confess that I am somewhat embarrassed, because I believe that our two wills are not opposed, contrary to what you have suggested. I say this from the beginning in this dossier: it is not a question of sacrificing sensationalism or pujadism, but people are waiting for answers. If we fail to bring transparency, we will all be tainted – both you and us and the police – because of an impression that some information would be put on the side, while they might eventually establish responsibilities. In the latter case, it is obviously not the police as a whole that will be condemned, nor justice, which will have done its job, and politics. On the other hand, the latter would be perceived as an accomplice who did not seek to move forward on this issue. Yesterday, I was asked about my agenda this morning. I replied that this was an important hearing, that of the College of Attorneys General in the Chovanec case. Even constructive people have said to me: "You will not know any more anyway, because this climate prevails." Why wouldn't we know more? Why, perhaps, could we not – and that is exactly what you have just said – establish responsibilities, if there are any? At that time, not only are there answers for the family and the population, but reproach is not cast on all institutions. I do not want to condemn in advance, certainly not, but there are elements that are challenging and you have the capacity to respond to them to enable us parliamentarians to play our role of controlling the executive. The main element for which I came this morning is section 26 of the Police Disciplinary Act. The question is why the judicial authorities have not notified the disciplinary authorities, possibly in order to initiate disciplinary proceedings. Was there, in your opinion, not enough evidence to do so? Or did you do it, but it got stuck at the police level and that was it? Or is it neglect, ignorance? In the latter case, we didn't do it because we didn't have the time or we didn't think about it. It is essential to know these elements in this case. We know that a possible disciplinary procedure could have been initiated without waiting for two and a half years. I made the same remark to the Minister of the Interior. With the elements of which he was aware, he also had the ability to initiate this procedure. Why, on the basis of the elements you had in this file, including the videos, has there not been, according to Article 26, this famous advance "contact" between the disciplinary authorities and yourself? In my opinion, there are three reasons for this: either you considered that there were not enough elements to initiate disciplinary proceedings, or there was something but the police did not follow and did not initiate the procedure, or there was neglect or neglect. In our role as a parliamentarian, answering this question, without jeopardizing investigation, would really help us move forward on the issue. This is a fundamental element for me. You say that the police officers who may be involved should not be questioned. However, we do not yet know who is involved. Is it not normal for a Parliament to control an executive? The executive is also the administration. And the administration is the police and its officials. Why hasn't the police hierarchy moved? We asked him the question. Why has the then Minister of the Interior not moved on to this disciplinary procedure, which could be conducted independently of the current investigation? We would then have had at our disposal elements to respond to these possible malfunctions. Like all of you, I want the word "if any" to be systematically added at the end of each intervention, so as not to cast reproach on the whole. The fact that you are pushing us to organise a parliamentary committee of inquiry to get an answer to our questions really gives me the impression that, for lack of grives, we have to eat hake. This does not suit us: we are in the framework of a committee that controls the executive. As some colleagues have pointed out, relatively clear communications have been made on certain aspects of the file. Therefore, why is it up to us, as parliamentarians, to restore confidence in the justice system, which, like the political level, is an institution undermined by various cases that are not dealt with within a reasonable period of time, in particular because of a lack of resources? Is the duration of the ongoing investigation attributable to these factors? I believe that these elements fall within the competence of a Member of Parliament who operates within the framework of a 'classical' and permanent committee of Parliament, and not within the framework of a committee of inquiry. These elements are rather structural in nature and are not directly related to the case, but these are the elements that would have restored confidence. Of course, this morning's presentation refers to principles that I support as a lawyer, but I can't help but think that those who listen to us and who don't have the same legal keys that we certainly think we are transgressing the truth or hiding things. That is the worst thing for democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u14	Madam President, I thank Mr. Attorneys General for their presentation, even if they leave us cruelly on our hunger. As my colleagues have done, I would like to clarify one point which I believe is fundamental: just like you, we are deeply committed to the separation of powers. Therefore, our will when asked for your hearing was in no way to replace the work of justice, that of the investigating judge and much less to undermine the principles of the rights of the defence, the right to a fair trial, the presumption of innocence. Most of us are deeply committed to these principles. But, in addition to this and because we have a task of monitoring the action of the government, our role is also to verify, more precisely in this case, that everyone has exercised his or her role properly, so that the investigations and trials that have followed these facts will take place in the most correct way possible and, precisely, in the most equitable way possible. This was justified in the light of the structural or personal dysfunctions, in any case individual, which had arisen during the previous hearings in the Committee on Justice, the inquisitive information provided by the minister in charge of the Interior at the time, Mr Jambon, which was confirmed by the representatives of the Federal Police but also in the light of the equally inquisitive elements contained in your press release of 2 September last. One element among others: you say that "a copy of the video surveillance images was recorded on a USB drive and that, therefore, the police had always kept the original of the images, notwithstanding their seizure, and that they could therefore perfectly view them at any time regardless of the judicial investigation under way and especially within the framework of its disciplinary powers." This means, therefore, that these images were, from the outset, well known to the police, well before their public disclosure by the press. In this regard, and this is the first point I wanted to come back to with you, you regretted - both today and in some of your statements in the press and in any case by means of a press release - this disclosure because it was an integral part of the case before the investigation. The Code of Criminal Investigation provides, inter alia, in its articles 28quinqiues and 57 that "the Public Prosecutor's Office may communicate information to the press when the public interest so requires, if an investigation is already opened at that time, with the prior consent of the investigating judge", while also knowing – and here again, the Code of Criminal Investigation is very clear – that "this communication can be done perfectly with respect for the rights of the defence and by ensuring the anonymity of the persons concerned." The first question I am asking you is whether you do not consider here that the public interest was met in this case. In other words, when the prosecutor's office discovered these images, why did he not consider it appropriate, given their violence, the Nazi salvation and the disdainful and unworthy behaviour of the police officers, to disseminate these images? Have there ever been any precedents for the application of this article for which you considered that the public interest required or made possible the distribution of images to the press in any case? The second point I wanted to come back to is one of the big knots of this case and was stressed both by the Director General of the Federal Police and by the P Committee and former Minister Jambon, that the police reports do not resume the violence or the Nazi salutation of the video images. These are rather brief reports, in any case, about what happened in the cell. So I am not talking about what happened on the plane and on the tarmac, but about the acts of violence committed within the cell itself against Mr. Chovanec's person. The reports mention briefly: "We keep the person concerned on the mattress in order to prevent him from kicking again." In other words, the report does not specifically mention the technique used to immobilize Mr. Chovanec or the fact that he was packed in a blanket. Do you consider it normal to have such a difference between the images and the relationship which must still be fairly comprehensive in fact? Should not the various police reports be checked against the images seized in the course of the investigation and which, it was said, were available from the outset for the police and as soon as the images were seized, on 27 February, for the courts, i.e. three days after Mr. Chovanec's death, it seems to me? If so, when should this comparison work take place, and at whose initiative? I wanted to come back to another point. He's mentioned in the police reports. This is the role of the magistrate. It states that at 7.45 p.m. on the evening of the incident, the magistrate issued several instructions. That's his role. In particular, he gave the opportunity to establish the path of the person concerned via the surveillance cameras. However, the most violent, problematic and intriguing images were taken after 7:45 p.m., as I said, in the cell itself, when Mr. Chonavec was there. Should not the on-call magistrate, therefore, also request Mr. Chovanec's route after 7.45 p.m., i.e. between 7.45 p.m. and his admission to the hospital the next morning at 5.30 a.m.? This was also part of his prerogatives. Did he appoint experts, and why not psychiatrists, to attest to Mr. Chovanec's psychological condition? It is true that at that time he had become a danger to himself. A on-call physician intervened, but did he really have the expertise a psychiatrist has? I know there's an education under way. Therefore, you may not be able to answer all of these questions. But I still wonder what the role of a magistrate is in similar circumstances. I also wanted to go back to a point that remains problematic for many of us: it is this famous Nazi salvation and the follow-up that has been reserved for him. As far as I am concerned, I really do not understand why you are able to draw conclusions for certain facts. It is true that in your press releases you say very precisely that "it does not appear to be proven, at this stage of the investigation, that the actions taken by the police are the direct cause of the victim's death, but that these conclusions cannot be drawn for other facts." You have told us, Mr Delmulle, that "in relation to Nazi salvation, it is wise to wait for the results of the investigation, carried out both with the CSJ (Superior Council of Justice) and with Committee P. Does this mean that the prosecutor's office is currently pursuing only for the crime of intentional assault? For the rest, is there any idea of the estimated timing for the closure of these investigations? The investigation initiated by Committee P, for example, has been under way since February 27, 2018, i.e. two and a half years. As for the investigation conducted by the Supreme Council of Justice, it has been open for a few weeks, in other words since the public disclosure of the images. In my view, the expectation is extremely difficult to understand and accept, both for Mr Chovanec's family and for us Members, and for the citizens, who do not understand such a slow pace on the part of the judiciary and the bodies responsible for monitoring the proper functioning of our police. It was precisely for this reason that it was important to hear you today, not to cast reproach on one or the other, but to ensure the proper functioning of justice and to grant it the means to live up to its mission. It is therefore crucial to consider whether the chronic underfunding of justice is one of the causes of this slowness.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u15	All the groups have been discussed. I give the floor to Mr Boukili for a second speech, but please be brief in view of the hour that has come. We would like to ask our speakers for a reply, because we have invited them to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u16	Madam President, I will be brief. I fully agree with the statement made by my colleague, Mr Colebunders. First of all, I shall return to the issue of obstruction of the investigation. If there is any hindrance, it is not because of parliamentary work, since we are fulfilling our monitoring mission in relation to something that has not worked. On the other hand, it is found in the statements of the Public Prosecutor's Office that no police responsibility has been proved at this stage. That is why I believe that the lessons we have been given this morning on the separation of powers should give way to self-criticism. Another interesting aspect is the opacity surrounding this case where police officers were seen dancing around a dying man, while one of their colleagues was making the Nazi salutation, concluding with Mr. Chovanec's death. However, the Prosecutor's Office does not seem to have felt that this was an urgent matter to be dealt with. How is that possible? Was it felt that this case was not important enough to be taken seriously? Above all, in the absence of images, would the investigation have accelerated in the same way as today? Since you're talking about trust, I'm telling you that she doesn't wonder, but that she wins. To obtain it, justice must do its job properly. I think that all citizens – and not just my colleagues and myself – want to trust a justice that fulfills its mission. But reality contradicts this wish. Not to mention the Fortis case, which is now prescribed, I will remind you of Jonathan Jacobs' case in 2010. It was only when we became aware of the images that it was taken seriously. Fortunately, under popular pressure, the authors were convicted. Therefore, when you ask for trust, you must be up to this request. I do not speak for you personally, but I believe that the functioning of the judiciary needs to be considerably improved. In addition, self-criticism is required. I did not hear this this morning about the wrong course of the case and the reasons for questioning that confidence. I spoke about Jonathan Jacobs, because we were told at the time that the lessons had been drawn from that experience, so that such a situation would not happen again. Ten years later, nothing has changed! We're in the same situation. It was only the release of videos that brought this issue into the public debate. So how can we trust when we feel that there is an opacity, when we feel that there is a concealment of facts, when we see the police report that is shifted from the reality that the images give us? When you come here to learn about the separation of powers, and ask that we have confidence in justice, I think that the minimum is that the justice process is up to this demand. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u17	Thank you for giving me the floor, Madam President. In my turn, I would like to thank the members of the College of Attorney General very expressly for their presence. I also appreciate and appreciate the tone and respect for the rule of law and procedures, but I still have three specific questions, which you will not blame me for. I shall put it with the greatest possible legal and factual caution. The first question is not personal. We are all convinced of the seriousness of this case. What do you think you can do generically, immediately, in the event of negligence on the part of certain people in the judicial, police or disciplinary circuit? It is not normal that nothing has happened to these facts for two years. You can formulate that abstractly. You don't have to relate it directly to this case. What do you, as the College of Attorney General, think you can do in the very short term? Maybe there's nothing you can do. I will listen to that answer, but it is an important question. Secondly, there is something to say about speed. Speed and time are the opponents of justice. That's no different in this case. Legal speed is essentially distinguishable from social speed. Read and understand: the immediateness with which facts are judged in our society. People are no longer so concerned with the values of the rule of law, as we are doing. Lawyers give a totally different reading of facts than a citizen who is not a lawyer. This is also felt in this committee. That is a very pressing and captivating finding. Time for Justice in many cases becomes an opponent, a fortiori in this case. Can you give us some sort of truth calendar? When do you think you'll be able to get into this case? In life, it is also a question of giving the rightful expectations to the right-wing and the citizen. Thirdly, Mrs De Wit and other speakers have also mentioned the fact that a statement was made from the Justice Department on these facts. It came in, of course, both to Parliament and to the ordinary citizen. You are quite right to invoke the secret of the investigation. You bring in all the constitutional principles, which I fully subscribe to and with which I will help you restore confidence in justice, but then you yourself send out a press release saying that the police are not in a causal relationship with the death. That is an absolute violation of Article 458, the violation of professional secrecy, isn't it? How do you see that? Give us a legal explanation for that, but also a human explanation of what is happening there. Let's put it in legal terms. What's happening is extremely unfortunate. Leave each one in his role. Mr Delmulle, you rightly stated that very unfortunate statements were made by lawyers and politicians. I've been quiet for a long time. I didn't say much in this file, but people do have questions. Try to answer those questions, in the interest of justice in general and in the interest of those who do very good work daily within Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u18	Mr Delmull will now have the floor and other attorneys-general may be able to supplement it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u19	I will focus mainly on the Dutch questions. The Attorney General of Liège will try to answer the French questions. Some things are repeated in one way or another and are interwoven in the different questions. My answers will certainly not undermine the seriousness of the facts, otherwise it will be a difficult conversation. I will try to answer in general and somehow make abstraction of the file. You had already expected that I would not be able to say so much, and I had already announced that in my speech. So I shall have to disappoint you a little, because many of the questions are directly linked to the ongoing inquiry in Charleroi. The position of the College of Attorneys General is that we will not discuss this with you today. Our position is and remains that it is absolutely necessary to have all the elements in order to be able to conduct the debate properly and with full knowledge of the facts. That's an answer to a lot of questions. Possible structural dysfunctions will have to be demonstrated by the examination of the Standing Committee P of the Supreme Court for Justice or by the monitoring examination of the Standing Committee P. We will not comment at all on other elements linked to the judicial investigation, because we do not want to compromise the ongoing judicial investigation. Many interviews showed that the concerns I have tried to convey in my discourse did not come across to the full one hundred percent. I often heard that "it has been established," that "it is clear" and "we know it." However, in my discourse I tried to point out that the exact truth is usually a more nuanced story, in which the two bells have to be heard. The example of the two clocks I gave in my discourse is very important. I've been doing this for 30 years: I've been judging, let alone judging, not without hearing one and the other clock, one and the other party. I am talking now in abstracto, but I often find that both Members of Parliament and journalists are often fed unilaterally and selectively by a party that has an interest in it, a party that sometimes has pieces of the file and will selectively communicate some documents, to a greater or lesser extent. Experience teaches me this concern I really wanted to share with you that, before we really make statements on the substance, we need to be sure that we have all the documents at our disposal. Have we heard not only the voice of a lawyer from one party, but also of the defendants' lawyers, of the prosecutor and of the other parties involved? This sometimes requires a little patience and patience in this matter means waiting for the Supreme Court of Justice to investigate justice and structural dysfunctions. I have good hopes that the investigation will lead to results rather quickly. I have already indicated that hearings would take place this week, as I have heard. So one takes the cow by the horns. I think that's important. So I'm taking care of the selective story. I'm gonna jump a little bit from one party to another, if you'll allow me, Madam President. I heard the King's Attorney of Charleroi was supposed to be here. It is true that the College of Attorney General has told the Prosecutor of the King of Charleroi that he should not come for the reasons I have explained to you in the meantime. We'd rather have this meeting with you first. The King's Attorney is being interrogated by the Supreme Court this week. If the King's Attorney were to sit here and be interrogated, I do not know if it has already been done by the Supreme Court, then one feels that there is an incompatibility, which should be avoided. You must also put yourself in the position of the Procurator of the King: either in this file someone is suspected by the investigating judge, and then the prosecutor of the King, when the file is communicated, will have to take a stand, he will go for an offense or for a referral to the correctional court, or no one will be suspected by the investigating judge. But even so, the King's Attorney has the opportunity to say, after reading the entire file, that he believes that a reference to the court should be made. That person must be able to do so in complete independence. When one first interrogates the King's Attorney of Charleroi, do you feel that serenity is in danger of being violated at that time? After all, he will have to take an important position on this dossier. There were a number of questions about guidelines on the notification to the Disciplinary Authorities by the Justice Department. COL-transfers were mentioned, including COL 4 of 2003. By the way, it was updated by the College of Attorneys General on 24 May 2018. What will the College do in the short term? First, we will see what the outcome of the investigation of the Supreme Court of Justice is. If there were any reason, after taking note of all the documents that will be on the table, to re-examine COL 4 of 2003, we will do so. To this end, we would first like to be able to consult the findings and recommendations of the Supreme Court of Justice and, of course, we would like to have a debate on this. It was also asked a few times when the judicial investigation will be over. I will not, of course, comment on that. I know there's a lot of work going on. In general, I would like to say something about that. It has to do with the duration of the investigations. Is two years a long time for an investigation? Investigations involving judicial expertise take a long time. I would not immediately respond positively to the question of whether two years is long, given the legal expertise, but if we want judicial investigations involving experts to progress faster, then we have to pay the experts better. And then one must also ensure that the job of legal expert becomes attractive again. What I would like to have a debate about with you at another time is the problem with lengthy judicial investigations in which experts have been appointed. I can see that for Brussels alone. What we all need to get out of the closet in order to get these experts to submit their judicial reports in time is fame. We must very often reach out to the ultimate means, which is the chamber of accusation, in the context of monitoring the long-term judicial investigation. We must then ask the AI to convoke the expert concerned in order to advise him to submit his report. The answer we almost always get from the expert is that we should actually be happy that they still want to do it for the wages they get. A foreign country will not soon find someone who wants to do it before. We are sometimes reluctant to brusque a certain expert, even though we know, for example, that he is too late with his reports in eight cases, because we know that we are in the cold if he fails to do so. I am only giving that to you because this is a court case with a lot of expertise, and that is an important element for us to consider whether or not we are dealing with a long-term investigation. I absolutely do not want to anticipate the conclusions of the Supreme Court of Justice, and I must be careful not to do so, but that is a very important element. I also said in my introduction that we can no longer say anything here about the duration of the investigation, because, under Article 136 on 28 September, a check is planned by the Chamber of Inclamation in Bergen. Here's what I'd like to give you to straighten something out. That control may be requested, either by a bourgeois party or by the court, but it may also be done of its own motion by the chamber of incriminating itself. As far as the press release is concerned, I can give the floor to my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u20	Mr De Valkeneer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u21	Madam President, I can understand the frustrations expressed by some who want to have information. I fully understand that feeling. I wanted to tell you, however, that if we have decided to come all five to you, it is not to give you a lesson in law. As Mrs Khattabi has said very well, it is not necessary to be a lawyer to know that there are principles of separation of powers. We have come to engage with you in a dialogue. The purpose of our coming here is to finally be able to speak with you about fundamental principles and things that we really believe to be fundamental in this matter. As you know, since I have already had the opportunity and the pleasure of coming to the Committee on Justice several times, it is very important for me that we can have this dialogue and that we can try to understand each other and not simply lock ourselves in dogmas or principles that seem to everyone to be inviolable. So I wanted to tell you that it was really in a spirit of dialogue that we chose to come to you. You have questions. People are asking questions. But we also wonder. That is why we have said that an investigation by the Supreme Council of Justice is under way. It is very important for us that this survey be conducted so that we can have a number of answers to questions. But, be careful, let's all be careful! We're all reasonable people in this room. It is also necessary to be able to bring a message of reason, even in relation to situations that are dramatic. We have indeed seen these images and it is certain that everyone was shocked. Everyone finally reacts emotionally to these images. Let us be careful, however, because what may at first glance appear obvious in images – and we will have more and more – may turn out, as a result of an investigation, to be something much more complex. Let us be careful not to sacralize images and not to attribute to them a truth that they may not have completely because things are much more complex than they can make at first sight. That is why the investigations are obviously something quite fundamental, not only the judicial investigation that is being carried out – I will come back to that in a few moments – but also the other investigations carried out, such as the investigation by the Supreme Council of Justice and the investigation by Committee P, so that we can really put all things in context and be sure that what we have seen at first sight, and which has shocked us all, actually represents reality. Or is this reality much more complex? This is, in my view, a very important point. The third point – and that is where the debate has its full place before the Justice Committee – is the question of police control by the judiciary with regard to the use of coercion. As you know, in our country, only two institutions have a monopoly on the use of coercion in certain situations, namely the police and the prison administration. The use of coercion remains an extremely complex and difficult issue. The profession of police officer is indeed a difficult one that requires an adequate response, especially from field and front-line police officers, as was the case in Charleroi. These police officers do not do investigative work but must be able to decide very quickly whether or not to resort to coercion. Similarly, it is a complex process to determine whether it has been lawfully or illegally used coercion. Over the course of our long career, my fellow magistrates and I have always taken the necessary steps to ensure that investigations are carried out when the use of coercion by the police force results in serious harm to the physical integrity – even death – of people. I wanted to stress that. In fact, the College here before you approved, a few years ago, a circular directing the prosecution to open a judicial file for each use of coercion with serious consequences for the physical integrity of a person or his death. The above circular also provides for the initiation of an investigation by a service independent of the person who used the constraint. We have adopted these principles in application of the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which has repeatedly condemned European countries by considering that they have not conducted sufficiently precise investigations to determine whether or not there has been the use of coercion on a regular or irregular basis. I can tell you that this circular has generated a lot of reaction from the police. We discussed at length with the unions because some saw it as a conviction of the police as soon as investigations were opened to verify whether the use of coercion had been carried out on a regular basis. It was therefore not simple to have it accepted by the police services and by the police unions. However, we have been firm in this regard. Today, and we are observing it in this case in Charleroi, a judicial investigation has been initiated to try to determine whether coercion has been used on a regular basis. I mean, from that point of view, justice cannot be tried on the pretext that it would cover or close its eyes on these issues and would not ensure control of the police services when they resort to coercion with serious consequences for the physical integrity of persons. But this issue of the use of coercion is also very complex. Let me share with you an experience I had when I was a prosecutor of the King of Charleroi. I know this district very well and I loved it very much. We had with the same investigating judge in charge of Mr. Chovanec's case, an incident in Jamioulx prison where a detainee died as a result of the intervention of prison officers. The prosecution opened a case. This investigating judge charged three prison officers. The next morning of their indictment, Jamioulx prison was totally under arrest. All the guards had disconnected. Only three people remained in Jamioulx prison. The director called me at eight o'clock in the morning to find out what to do. This is to tell you that we conducted the investigation. The Public Prosecutor's Office requested that these prison officers be returned to the correctional court, which acquitted them. The Court of Appeal acquitted them that the use of coercion had been made on a regular basis. Things are not simple! I'm not throwing stones at the judges who acquitted. They have done so in their soul and conscience, I am absolutely convinced. But it shows the complexity of things. Finally, Belgium was condemned by the European Court of Human Rights on the basis of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights because it had been held that the Belgian courts had not properly assessed the right to life as defined by Article 3 of the Convention. A rigorous investigation is therefore absolutely necessary in order to be able to truly appreciate this problem of the use of force. The question of slowness was asked. I shall say two things in relation to this question of the slowness of the investigation. On the one hand, there is an investigation by the Supreme Council of Justice to determine whether or not this slowness is problematic. The indictment chamber will also be seized, but I would still like to say that things are not white and black. To say that two and a half years is an abnormal time frame for carrying out this type of investigation, there must also be a look at this case and whether or not there have been delays that are at fault. An investigation may take some time for a multitude of reasons and not for issues of miscarriage of justice. There have been many contradictions in education, which is a very good thing. Since 1998, there has been a real right to contradiction and a possibility for the parties to intervene in the course of the investigation. All this takes time. At the most, a procedure will be adversarial, at the most it will take time. Don't go too fast, either! There may have been delays in this instruction, but it is really important that an investigation, that of the Supreme Council of Justice, be able to determine whether this duration is abnormal or whether it can be explained by a variety of elements. We also talked about the press release that was made, saying that in essence, the Public Prosecutor's Office is making a press release on the Chovanec case, and you are finally refusing to come and talk to us about the case, to come and communicate a number of elements. The first thing is that I think we still have to realize that, and here too, we see that the profession has evolved completely, there is media pressure that is very important. There is a growing realization that it is necessary at some point to communicate to prevent anything from being told in a file and completely distorting the truth. What was red at first becomes completely black in the press releases. And so obviously it is important to be able at some point to restore a certain number of things or, in any case, repudiate a certain number of things or contradict things that are clearly totally contrary to the truth. On a daily basis, prosecutors express themselves in a series of cases because it is really necessary to be able to express themselves in a number of cases. It also involves the presumption of innocence, of being able at some point to say: "Be careful, let's not go too fast in the conclusions that can be drawn". You're going to tell me, but yes, but if you're speaking in the press, why don't you come to us so you can also tell us the same thing? I think, let me say that you may not agree with me, that we are not speaking to the press as we come to speak before the Committee on Justice; and fortunately. The Justice Committee is not the press. In the press, we have a unilateral speech. Finally, a number of things are said. But here, of course, and I said from the outset in my presentation, when we come to the Committee on Justice, it is to have a dialogue. Somewhere, if we come to say again, to talk about the facts in themselves, it is clear that we will have to go back in a much more precise way into the investigation and into the course of the facts. Now I think we're facing a problem. I don't think we have the same level of communication with the press and dialogue with the Committee on Justice... we are not in the same order of reality. The question of denunciation. Again, I think it is really the role of the investigation of the Supreme Council of Justice to be able to determine why the prosecution did not report the facts to the disciplinary authorities. I'd like to say something about that. There is a need to differentiate the types of situations. When a police officer is suspected of having committed a number of offences in the context of his or her private life, such as domestic violence, drug trafficking or other offences, of which his or her hierarchical authority is not aware, it is clear that the Public Prosecutor's Office must inform the hierarchical authority so that it can open a disciplinary file. But of course, from the moment the facts occurred in a police setting, by definition, the disciplinary authority is informed of these facts. It is his responsibility to open, where appropriate, a disciplinary file. The question of the disciplinary power of the Public Prosecutor's Office vis-à-vis the police services is of great interest to Parliament. You know that prosecutors have no disciplinary power over police officers in the exercise of their judicial police duties. It is in fact the hierarchical and administrative authority that provides disciplinary authority over police officers if they are considered to have committed misconduct in the exercise of their judicial functions. This can be a paradox. In essence, why could the judicial authority not exercise this disciplinary authority or at least initiate disciplinary proceedings? We can talk about it. It must be realized that in a number of cases today, facts are reported to the disciplinary authority without any disciplinary record being opened. It should also be noted that there are cases in which police officers are convicted, in particular for acts committed in the course of their judicial police duties, and where they receive virtually no disciplinary sanction. Similarly, the King's prosecutor must continue to work with police officers who have also been convicted of criminal offences. We must continue to work with them because they have never really been punished by their disciplinary authorities. There is really a debate at the structural and systemic level. The question is whether the Public Prosecutor's Office should not play a much more active role in disciplinary proceedings, and at the very least be able to take the initiative in these proceedings. He might be able to appeal certain disciplinary decisions. For the rest, there was talk about the role of the magistrate, who could, for example, have appointed a psychiatrist. Of course, everything is always possible in the abstract. However, it must be borne in mind that when a guard judge is called because someone rebelled, was placed in a cell and is going to be heard at 8 a.m., we cannot ask the guard magistrate to call the police every two hours to find out how this detention is going. I've been in charge of nightguards during the holidays as the King's attorney. In a district like Charleroi, between thirty and forty calls are received during the night. If you are therefore asking a magistrate to call regularly to find out how a deprivation of liberty is going, it is possible, but the number of magistrates must then be multiplied by three to carry out such a task. The communication of images to the press by the public prosecutor's office was also discussed. I have no recollection of such a thing, except to search for and identify perpetrators of a criminal offence. In this case, of course, we transmit the images to the press. Otherwise, our approach is most often reactive, rather than proactive. In other words, we are reacting to what appears in the press. This follows perfectly from the principle of presumption of innocence and the secrecy of investigation. Of course, we are not going to disclose what is in the record at the investigation. In the event of a leak in the press, it may be important to react to prevent completely distorted information from circulating in the media. Then everyone was shocked by Nazi salvation. It is unanimous: no one can of course accept such behaviour in someone who is wearing a police uniform or, I would say, is wearing a parcel of public authority. The question will, of course, be to see why these facts have not been denounced either. Here too, I think that it is obviously the role of the Supreme Council of Justice, which must be able to highlight this and finally see what really happened at that level. But I would also like to say that the College of Attorneys General has taken initiatives in this type of matter. I will highlight two things. On the one hand, in 2013, a circular was issued by the College of Attorneys-General for all offences relating to racial hatred, incitement to discrimination and, on the other hand, the College of Attorneys-General also instructed the public prosecutor's offices not to classify anything without action for reasons of opportunity for such acts. This shows the commitment of the Public Prosecutor's Office to combat conduct which could constitute offences on the basis of the 1981 Act and in any case a very firm commitment by the Public Minister to this matter. Madam President, I think that I have covered most of the questions that have been asked, but perhaps in a second round some clarification can still be given.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u22	Madam President, Mr Attorney General, I will try to pry my words and try to be careful. The lesson I've been given, I'll try to apply. You were able to follow it all in the press: a few weeks ago we had a committee meeting here with not only a former Minister of the Interior, who has a political responsibility, but also with policemen. They were seriously dragged through here. It concerns people who had not seen certain images and did not have certain information, but who were nevertheless treated seriously. They may not have had the luxury to say in that context that it was a whole part of the principles of law. I support those principles of justice. They're important, and we can never give up on them. But they didn't have that luxury. I don't think you're personally responsible in any way. You haven't seen that footage either. That's the same position. I'll be careful, but I feel like we've started talking a little side by side, but I don't understand why it's so hard to just admit certain things, apart from the file and the facts, without this affecting your responsibility and the judicial investigation. When it comes to the length of the investigation, this is not the only file in which the investigation lasts long. There are many very good reasons why this takes a long time: resources, people, complexity. I'll take all that. However, there is nothing wrong with saying that sometimes it just takes too long. We will not be angry with you for that, because there is nothing you can do about it. However, there is nothing wrong with just saying that once in a while. If we want to take steps towards trust in justice, what is needed, that will have to be one of the steps. Then I come to the question I have asked, like other colleagues, with which I continue to have a difficult time. Why didn't the police and the investigators report the footage, because they did? I understand from the press release that there is a certain context there, and I also want to accept that, namely the judicial investigation. However, by notifying a disciplinary authority, the police officers on the images are not yet condemned, nor do they make a preliminaries. There is simply something to be found there and it is passed on to the authority which is to carry out a disciplinary investigation and to investigate it further. It's the same thing. That doesn't have to be a preliminaries. Unless I am mistaken, which, of course, can always be done, I have the feeling that there is a mistake in this regard, namely that we are compromising the judicial investigation by making a ruling on it now. However, the question why this has not been passed on in order to have it investigated is also an investigation and not a preliminaries. I do not think answering that question will affect the judicial investigation at all. Let us separate ourselves from the file or from any file brought before an investigating judge or a parquet magistraat, in which there is something similar to image material and of which they are at that time one of the few who get to know it. Perhaps I should ask the question in the following way, apart from the Chovanec file. Would you not find it logical that the context should be examined in a judicial investigation or in the context of a disciplinary investigation, and that the file should be passed on? The legislation or directives provide that in such cases the file must be transmitted. Let's make it very general. I would really like an answer to that question. I do not believe that you will cross any investigation by the Supreme Court of Justice or the judicial investigation, apart from the file. If you are given such a file, what should be the normal course of action? It cannot be difficult to answer that question, not in your capacity or in the difficult context in which you have to answer questions from the committee today. I'm still hungry at that point. I feel like we're talking side by side. One is an investigation and the other is an investigation. Just passing it on isn't a preliminaries. So that can be confirmed perfectly. That can't be so hard, can it? In any case, I would be more than happy to inform you that the investigation is taking a long time. There are also a lot of good reasons to point it out. However, you can simply agree to this, after which we can start to work and ensure that it is better done in the future. By answering that question, we can work on it together. Madam President, perhaps we can still do it. In any case, it does not seem to me that difficult or too delicate to press on to that point of pain and to ensure that everyone press on to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u23	Mr De Valkeneer, by your presence here, you are referring to the desire for dialogue. I still had the feeling that we were rather in a dialogue of the deaf. I don't feel like I've been heard. I'm talking for myself anyway. I want to tell you this at the end of this session. You are asking us to trust you, but I will tell you the same thing: trust us, as parliamentarians, in the work that is ours! You're defending the presumption of innocence for all actors. I want to claim it for us too. Do not lend us intentions that are not ours! I was struck by something that has been said several times. Again, Mr. De Valkeneer, you came back to the images and drew our attention to one point. You told us to be careful because what the images show doesn't always tell reality. I have heard it several times and I am curious about what these images might say other than what they are told today, even if the investigation will say so. When I heard you, I obviously thought of Nazi salvation. In what context can this be interpreted differently? But at the end of your speech you said something that reassured me a lot. I had been a little struck by Mr Delmulle's intervention, which said: "These principles apply, of course, in this case, whether it is the facts that took place or the Nazi salvation that a police officer would have carried out at that time". When Mr. Delmulle said it, I thought he didn't see the pictures either. You, at the end of your intervention, return to this Nazi salvation and yourself, you say that when you see these images, you can only be struck. That made it clear something that was less clear to me. I finally come back to two last things. I think, Mr De Valkeneer, we are not putting the press and justice on the same footing. It was after the communication that we said that we wanted to audition you. It was when we discovered the communication and the fact that you went far enough in some conclusions that you drew. We thought there was nothing to compromise, since everything was in the press release; in that case we could audition you. It's more of a question of that. Finally, I am not a lawyer but I have done sociology and I hear a lot about the monopoly of the use of coercion or the legitimate violence that the police would have. I wish that these concepts were not diverted from their meaning and that Max Weber should not be told what he was not saying. Personally, I am convinced that there is no legitimate violence and that Max Weber, in referring to this legitimate violence, described only a sociological fact. This violence is the state that claims it for itself. The state has managed to impose this monopoly of legitimate violence today, whether in the media or in politics, whether at home or in France. Whenever the issue of violence by law enforcement officials is raised, we are reminded of this concept as if it covered and decimated the police against certain acts of violence. I would like to reiterate here, as far as I am concerned, and very firmly, that there is no legitimate violence and that today, when in the press or in the political world, this concept is used, it is to make Max Weber say things that he did not say.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u24	Madam President, Mr Delmulle, Mr De Valkeneer, ladies and gentlemen, many questions remain unanswered. I hear the desire for dialogue and to initiate dialogue, but I still have concerns about how this dialogue is presented. I have never, in any case, referred to the slowness of education, but to the length of education. That was why I said that the presentation of a chronology might have been interesting, since it was already partly done in the press. Simply presenting from a factual point of view a chronology of events could already lead to deconstructing many speeches. You talk about trust, and we talked about trust. I told you, she exists, but she's not blind. If we want to build that confidence in this issue, and in others that I hope will not happen in the future, we need to be very careful. Why should we be very careful? Because this dialogue that we are initiating today, if I listen to your terms, cannot continue tomorrow. It will only continue at the end of a long term. Why does it take so long? Because we're still in the training phase. The Board Chamber did not rule. If there is an appeal, the Charges Chamber will not have ruled. If there were to be a referral, the substantive courts would not have ruled. The Supreme Council of Justice itself has indicated to us, in the letter it has sent to us, that if, exceptionally, it opens the investigation now, since it is exceptional for it to open an investigation into a case which is not yet closed, it will only render its conclusions when the case is finally closed, that is, either when the investigating courts have closed the case, possibly by way of a dismissal, or when the substantive courts have ruled. It's not for tomorrow. This means that the continuation of this dialogue is not for tomorrow. In disciplinary matters, we mentioned, there are also, and there were also expectations. However, we realize that this case has been in existence for two years. There are disciplinary rules. There is jurisprudence. In particular, I am told of a 2007 Darville decision of the Council of State, which itself refers to a case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, according to which, if disciplinary proceedings are not initiated with diligence, they can no longer be initiated. This means that, probably, if disciplinary proceedings have not been initiated, what is happening with police officers, as you indicate, who have been convicted but who continue to work, will still happen tomorrow, since we risk being too late only to continue, open and diligently investigate disciplinary proceedings against police officers who, hypothetically, will be acquitted or convicted, no proceedings, if only temporary and on a temporary basis, have been carried out. There are therefore important expectations and concerns. You yourself say that the function has evolved and that the relationship with the media has evolved. This relationship with the media, it will have to be built on this issue in the coming months and years, hoping that there will not be a second Chovanec case when the first one is not yet closed, in which case we will find ourselves with exactly the same answers and the same questions. And there will be a public information problem, a democratic problem, something that has not changed. So, I am telling you very sincerely, I have not received an answer to the questions I have asked. I understand you don't want to answer that. I fully agree with the principles that you have set out, but I think that there is a middle path to be drawn and that this middle path cannot and cannot wait for several months, or even years, disappointments or a case other than to be defined and that in order to allow us to find a modus operandi at some point between justice, legislative and possibly executive, if similar situations were to be repeated in the future. That would be worse than anything! The image of justice would, in my opinion, be deeply dismayed, as would that of politics. They say, even if I don't like that phrase, "it's better to be guilty than incompetent." Some say it; it's not my favorite adage. From the moment the image is dismal, it would not even be an institutional problem that would arise and the terms of the debate that we are presenting today would no longer arise in the same way, but there would really be a problem of democratic legitimacy vis-à-vis an audience that has as its sole channel the media. And you also see the problems that this channel sometimes poses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u25	Madam President, I stand by the position I have just taken, in particular that I think we should wait for the Court of Justice to investigate. We must have confidence in that. I am convinced that the investigation into this dossier will be carried out in a very thorough manner. On the basis of the results, we can still decide which initiatives our Committee on Justice should take. I think we should not anticipate the facts. Gentlemen attorney general, I would like to apologize for not waiting for your additional answer. I have to go to a meeting which starts at 1 p.m. and which was left because of this committee meeting. My apologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for trying to give us some answers, despite the fact that the investigation is under way, you cannot go into the subject matter of the investigation. It is obviously a bit frustrating to have to respect this separation of powers, but at the same time we are committed to it, so we respect it. However, your comments about the police officers charged, the procedures in relation to convictions, the fact that you sometimes had to continue working with them when there were convictions, raise some questions. Perhaps this is a work that Parliament should look at in collaboration with the executive and the judiciary for better functioning and respect for all existing powers. We await the report of the Supreme Council of the Judiciary. Then we will really want to start this dialogue with you and with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u27	Madam President, attorney general, I would like to thank you for the answers. They were very enlightening. That was the start of dialogue that we wanted here in this committee, much more than the reading and power point we got at the start. Thank you for your answers. However, they only partially satisfy my hunger. I'll explain why. Mrs. De Wit said it, too. Mr Delmulle said that COL 4 applies here. I think we should be able to get an answer here to the question whether there has been a notification from the court to the police, yes or no? Mrs De Bolle has clearly said that she has not received anything, either from the police or from the police. If the COL 4 applies, we should be able to know here whether it was sent from the Justice Department to the police, yes or no. If the answer is yes, then we're done with the Justice Department. If it's no, then the next question is why not. You do not have to answer that second question for me here, because it is part of the ongoing investigation. I am really prepared to wait for the answer to the second question, but I think we should have a yes or a no today. Having said that, I have written down three conclusions for myself. Maybe call it workpoints. The first is the dialogue between the judiciary and the people. In this file it is too late, but perhaps it can be a school of learning to think together how this can be better done in other files from the beginning and at regular intervals. A second point, once the investigation of the Supreme Court of Justice has been completed, could perhaps be a second debate or dialogue in which we can get some more answers. We are prepared to wait and do this again. A third area of work is the judicial investigation. You've given us a number of moves. How can we ensure that it is done very thoroughly by you, I have every confidence that it can be done even faster, while maintaining quality and thoroughness? If practical things stand in the way and it takes too long, we must also try to adapt those practical things. I've noted those three workpoints, but you have my confidence. I think we should work together in dialogue to find solutions to these three issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u28	Madam Chair, I hesitated to react because we learned no more than with the initial presentation. I was surprised and stunned by both statements, although the second did not answer all the questions because of the different constraints raised by the prosecutors. In short, I have not heard any questioning or self-criticism as to the course of the case, as if there had been no problem with the proceedings. As you said yourself, Mr. Prosecutor, the European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly condemned Belgium, in particular for this kind of fact. However, you do not recognize any structural dysfunction and do not formulate any self-criticism. I think it's really amazing! There is the Chovanec case, but it is only the visible part of the iceberg. In addition, Committee P, which investigates police abuses, is mainly composed of former officers. This means that there is no independent body capable of conducting such an investigation. It is no coincidence that Belgium has been condemned on several occasions by the European Court of Human Rights. That is the first point I wanted to make. Secondly, with regard to your response to statements in the media and press releases, it was intended to reassure us, but I think you are sinking to your neck. Indeed, you say that these statements were necessary to restore a certain truth. According to you, at this stage, no police responsibility has been proven. Is this not a conclusion that you draw, thus imposing an obstacle to the investigation? Do you consider such a conclusion to be a truth? If so, does that mean that the investigation resulted in that truth? In any case, I didn't understand your argument very well. I wanted to conclude with the question of trust, which has been discussed a lot. Of course, we do not want parliamentary work to be a handicap in the operation of the investigation. However, when you consider that the scope of the images should be relativized, I would point out that all the people who saw them had the same interpretation. It is only on the side of the prosecutor's office and the police hierarchy that they should be studied, because they could mean something other than what can be seen. The popular indignation in this Parliament comes from a single interpretation. I therefore wonder what further reading of these images could be given. When I hear you asking us to trust you, I come to the conclusion that our parliamentary oversight work needs to be strengthened. As I said, this trust must be won. And it's far from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u29	Mr Delmulle and Mr De Valkeneer, thank you for your answers. As I said earlier in my introduction, I fully agree with the principles that you put forward today. As a representative of the people, I have every respect for that. Mr Delmulle, you will begin by saying that, in general, apart from this dossier, we must be careful to make premature findings and draw conclusions. We always have to hear two bells. That is all very correct. You continue by saying that the media and Parliament may be fed too much by one source. What I am somewhat concerned about is that I really do not see how you link your own press release to all these legitimate principles. After all, in his press release, the Bergen public prosecutor himself said that there is no evidence that police action has led to death, while the expertise and counter-expertise have not yet been completed. You refer to the pressure from the media and it is true that this pressure exists both for politics and for justice. However, you should also be aware that the general feeling in this dossier is that people believe that the media have happily done their work on this issue. Communication is therefore important. As a public prosecutor, you must now explain procedures and the reasons for taking certain decisions by 2020. I expect you to be as objective and cautious in a press release as you are explaining to Parliament today. That is why I am having a very difficult time with that press release. Our group awaits the investigation of the Supreme Court of Justice. I am, as you can see, very critical of the communication that has been made, but we are not making any comments about the investigation itself and are not blaming you for it at all. We'll wait and see. I would ask you to ensure that the investigation can be completed as quickly as possible so that correct conclusions can be drawn quickly. A quick conclusion to this case can also restore confidence in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u30	Gentlemen attorneys, thank you for your answers. For us, the main problem is the sharing of information within the police. That's where the core is. I have done my best to ask my questions very general in order to really not talk about this case. Of course the reason is very concrete, but the questions themselves were very general. That is why I am a little surprised that a lot of these questions were not dealt with. I would prefer to have an answer to that, but if that is not possible, I would like to know why. I'll go over the questions again. What happens in general in the event of the seizure of footage from the police? Does that happen with a copy or not? If per copy, does that mean that the footage will be available to the police in the meantime? Is it not better, under Article 26 of the Disciplinary Regulations Act, to make less detours and simply to report, just to break circular reasoning? You have listed a number of situations in which it happens, but how often does it happen? Is this very rarely applied or is it fairly common practice? I would like to have a little insight into that, also in order to be able to assess the awareness of that provision. I understand that efforts are being made and will be made to raise awareness. However, I would like to know what the current practice is. The said COL applies. Apart from this case, is there an obligation to report for the parole board? Is the COL not only applicable, but is there also an obligation? I understand that this is the case between the lines, but at the same time I find it difficult to reconcile this with the plea to be more active. If it is an obligation, it is not a matter of being more active. Then it just has to happen. This would provide the greatest possible clarity in order to break the circular reasoning again. Has the public prosecutor thought about any changes to the regulations? If the regulation has been adapted and is clear, it can be verified and possibly sanctioned as a last resort. Is the regulation itself clear? What rules generally apply to the prosecutors to decide whether or not to bring an action before the investigating court? Is it not generally the rule that complex cases should be followed up and that the investigating judge should be applied for them? In general, doesn't the parole board make an appeal against a conflicting order? Quid the recommendations of the Supreme Court of Justice of 20 February 2019 on the computerized follow-up system I was talking about? Quid the steps that have been taken, specifically............................................................................................................................................................................................ Preferably I get an answer to all my questions and at the very least I want to know why there is no answer at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u31	Indeed, there are still many unanswered questions. It seems to me that we could have made further progress in the search for the truth about this matter, which is disturbing many people. This has been impossible in the name of principles that you defend and which we support, but which, for me, are not incompatible with the parliamentary function that we have. I think rather than looking at us in faience dogs, we need to restore confidence. But it works both ways. To do this, we must try to walk in the same direction. Indeed, in the future, the recommendations and principles that we can draw from this "special" case are important. They are also essential to the proper functioning of our democracy and can also enable us to play, possibly, our role as legislators. I have only one thing to say to you: let us continue to try to walk in the same direction, each in our respective roles, for greater transparency, not only that which we owe to the family, but also that which we owe to the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u32	We have talked a lot about the trust that we all have in our judiciary. Like I said, I do. But when we ask you our questions, it certainly does not show a lack of confidence in you. On the contrary, this reflects a desire to ensure that you can work properly and that, therefore, this confidence can be shared by all our fellow citizens. In fact, it was seen when the Supreme Council of Justice decided to initiate an investigation into the ongoing judicial investigation. This shows that there have still been dysfunctions that required – for the first time – an investigation by the Supreme Council of Justice. Besides that, I hear a lot of frustration in your leadership, precisely because of the current functioning of our justice, in connection with the prerogatives that are yours. You have no prerogatives at the disciplinary level as such, with regard to the use of coercion by some police officers. But also a lot of frustration about the means, be they human, material or financial, that are at your disposal. I was very concerned by what you explained, Mr De Valkeneer, about the fact that, indeed, if you were three times as many magistrates in Charleroi, perhaps additional applications could have been sought in the Chovanec case as in other cases, possibly similar. There is also a great deal of frustration about the lack of recognition and compensation for experts, who make it possible for a judicial investigation to move forward much faster while being equally effective and rigorous in its operation. You said it was finally that which had the effect, in particular, of slowing down their work. I think, and I fully agree with what has been said by my colleague Mrs Matz in relation to this, that rather than blame ourselves on certain things, or at least talk about a lack of trust between us, on the contrary, we are working together, particularly in the context of the future government and the government agreement that will be proposed, to see if what will be on the table in relation to the means granted to the judiciary will be sufficient to ensure that this judiciary can function properly and can meet the expectations, both of the parties to a dispute and of the citizens. Mr Delmulle proposed his hearing in this context. I think this is a debate that we must have, at least at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u33	Madam President, it was said that the reporting of images to disciplinary authorities is not a preliminaries. Sorry, it is. The communication between police and public prosecutors is the subject of the special investigation of the Supreme Court of Justice. So I will not comment on this. I could do that, but I'm not gonna do that. I stick to the line that I turned off at the beginning of my discourse. It is important that we do not simply start saying things here. We must conduct the discussion on the basis of a report from the Supreme Court of Justice, which has heard all the parties and looked at all the elements. In connection with the disciplinary investigation, which has less repercussions for the alleged nazig soot. I'll explain later. You say to at least report all the facts to the disciplinary authorities. Of course, it's not like that. One cannot say to the discipline that there is a whole story of fact and that it is up to her to start. If a report is made to a disciplinary authority, it is someone's responsibility. Our guidelines prescribe that. One must then correctly identify the fact, one must then identify the name and one must ask for a specific disciplinary investigation. Is the investigation going to be long? Once again, the situation must be imagined. On September 28th, that question is before the investigating court. The Board of Appeal will hear the parties, decide whether or not this investigation will take a long time. So I will not say gratuitously here: all investigations of more than two years are by definition long. It doesn't work like that. An investigation must be considered on a case-by-case basis. What if I said here that a two-year investigation was lengthy? On September 28th, Mons' room of accusation, with knowledge of the facts, everyone has been heard and all the files read: sorry, but if we look at it here, we find that the investigation has known and known a normal course. I won't interfere here, because then I would be guilty of the message I've been trying to sell since this morning. "Sell" might not be the right word... Since this morning, I've been trying to deliver the message that we need to make sure we don't interfere with organs we've created ourselves. They must be able to do their job. Once they have done their job, they must bring that product to us, so that both you and we can take a stand in our jurisdiction and take the measures that impose themselves. It is true that I spoke in my introductory statement of the so-called Nazi salvation. Madam left, but I'm still going to say something that I think is important. I tried to remain faithful to what I said throughout my presentation, that is, I speak to the conditional; the presumption of innocence applies to everyone, also to the police. The police have the same rights as any other citizen of our country. That's why I said "a Nazi salvation would have been made". That's very important to me. If I were asked the question, both at the federal courthouse where I come from, and at the public prosecutor's office, how I look at police violence, I would reply that I hate it. I can't stand that. One can look at all the cases in which I have had to say about police violence and then you will see that I am strict about that. So I cannot stand it, but I think it is extremely important that the presumption of innocence should apply to everyone, because tomorrow one of you or one of us, anyone, can get involved in such a situation. I can't stand Barbertje hanging on the Grand Place in Brussels. That is why I think that all the bodies created by law should be able to play their full role, and on the basis of what comes out of it, we will then take a position and take the measures, believe us freely, which are imposing on us. The presumption of innocence is a very sensitive point for me. I'm not gonna be a part of it when people say that this doesn't apply to a police officer. I have already answered the third question. The question of self-criticism. We made our own self-criticism. But there were no problems in the procedure. While for you, this is already a fact, there have been problems in the procedure. For my part, I say we have to wait. Let us leave their work to the Higher Council of Justice and Committee P. On the basis of their report, the outcome of their work, we can take a position. Perhaps at that time we will agree with the conclusion that there have been procedural problems, but at the moment I cannot say that there have indeed been. My colleague from Liège has already replied to Mrs Gabriel's question on the press release, but I will mention it. It's not a press release from the College of Attorneys General, because apparently there's a merger about that. We have not issued a press release, but if you read the press release correctly, you will see that the presumption of innocence was taken into account very clearly. Some people are going through a very short period of reading that press release. Ik quote: "It does not seem proven, in the current state of expertise..." Everything I noticed in the beginning is also in that press release. Every word counts. It's always been handled very carefully. Why, however, does a press release come out, as the Attorney General of Liège has just indicated? At some point we feel or feel that Mons's public prosecutors need to be given some wind. I was talking about a one-sided feed, but there's a tremendous pressure coming from one channel. It's been suggested that the Justice Department is hiding away. Justice is being pointed at. The police are watching us, too. Everyone's watching us. It is therefore only natural, in my view, to try to point out at some point that a number of investigations are in progress and that perhaps the church should be put back in the middle again. That's the context of that press release. There were a lot of questions from... I forgot your name. I apologize for that. As regards seizures, there is an article in the Code of Criminal Procedure which I do not have with me and which regulates the seizure of computer carriers. The original can be confiscated, but a copy can also be taken. This is quite detailed in that article. I thought there was also a question about how often Article 26 is applied. My proposal in this area would be as follows. There have been a number of questions from several Members who tended rather to ask for more statistical material or some figures. Madam President, if it was asked in the past whether it was a one-off fact or whether there were precedents, or if statistical material was requested, I suggested that those questions be forwarded in writing. In this way we can ask our statistical analysts to do the necessary research work, which is equally useful to us. The circular No. 4 of 2003 is indeed a binding letter. All letters from the College of Attorneys General are binding on all members of the Public Prosecutor's Office. It is clear that a debrief on criminal policy is made by the Minister of Justice after advice from the College of Attorneys General. The College of Attorneys General can also make conversion letters of its own. Where appropriate, they will seep through to the District Attorney General, the Attorney General, who can also make conversion letters in itself. However, they must register as part of the College's circular. That goes on to the King's Attorney, who can translate the letter into his arrondissement. However, he must also remain within the framework of the letter from the Attorney General and thus also of the letter from the College of Attorneys General. Then it continues until the orders of the judicial police by the police. So the whole of this line is indeed bound by the guidelines we put in our letters of conversion. I assume you have the COL4/2003. I can go over it with you. By the way, it's also on the public website of the D.A.'s office. Are those rules clear? I think so, but if there is a need, after all the reports are on the table, to update that letter, we will certainly consider it. We've already done an actualization in 2018. When are we gonna catch an investigative judge? There's a COL for that, but I don't know which one by heart. Maybe the Attorney General of Antwerp knows that. I think it is COL 12/1998 on the fight against the legal backlog. It may be a strange place to include this, but it contains all the criteria for placing a case in a judicial investigation or in a mini-investigation. That COL is also on the public website of the prosecution. But actually, that's a business-related issue. As you know, the investigating judge has a number of powers to take coercive measures that we do not have. I'm thinking of a search warrant, the wiretap and, of course, pre-trial detention. Case by case will be considered whether we need these coercive measures. If that is indeed necessary, then we will put that case in a mini-examination for certain coercive measures and for others there is a full saisine from the investigating judge. It remains a case-by-case assessment, as the appeal against a conflicting order is a case-by-case assessment. There is no standard directive which says that an appeal must be made against any conflicting order from the investigating court. That's always an appreciation. I think I'm here, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u34	I think a lot of questions have been answered. Are there any additions? Mr De Valkeneer, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u35	Madam President, very quickly, I have heard that a dialogue should not, of course, take several years. There is therefore a certain need to be able to continue the dialogue in the medium term but not in the long term. At this level, I fully share your point of view. I think there may be some reflection with the Supreme Council of Justice on whether to wait for the case to be finally decided in order to disseminate its report. Are there not any more structural, operational aspects which do not affect the substance of the case and which could in any case be the subject of a dialogue with the Committee on Justice, as has been done previously in the framework of a Supreme Council of Justice to discuss how this other case was dealt with? No self-criticism, I will not repeat what my colleague has said, but I think we want to have all the elements before pointing to mistakes or problems. However, I can tell you that self-criticism is part of the culture of our profession. We are well aware that our daily work is far from perfect and I think that there is really, in the head of all the magistrates, the will to perfect and that it is ultimately over the years that we are trying to improve at some point. But we are certainly not in a profession that does not practice self-criticism. Finally, as Mrs Khattabi said, I agree that there is no legitimate violence as such, but there is a use of coercion that is permitted by law (including articles 37 and 38 of the Police Function Act). And, I repeat, this use of coercion and its appreciation are complex things. This requires lengthy and thorough investigations. For example, in the case of the use of weapons by a police force, ballistic investigations as well as a range of expertise are required, and it does take time. On the other hand, it must also be borne in mind that the use of coercion remains a very sensitive issue because it is something that needs to be exercised in an emergency and, therefore, it is sometimes easy to make a judgment when one has a step backwards. Indeed, when we are in reality, in the heat of action, things can prove to be much more complex, hence the need for thorough investigations that go to the bottom of things in order to truly shed light on this type of case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic260x.u36	Then I will conclude the exchange of views with the Attorney General and colleagues. This does not mean that our work on the Chovanec case has ended. We will continue with an actua debate with Minister Geens in the near future, this afternoon. There was a settlement of the work on the agenda, but we will have to wait for the investigation to continue. I thank our guests for coming to our committee personally to explain their views.
