ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u2	I would remind you that speaking time is limited to two minutes for the question, two minutes for the reply of the Member of the Government and one minute for the reply of the questioner. I should like to recall that the time limit for speaking is two minutes for the question and two minutes for the response of the members of the Government, plus one minute for the speaker's reply. We will be strict in view of the agenda that awaits us. The first questions are addressed to the Prime Minister. It is the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Social Affairs and Public Health, Mr Vandenbroucke, who will respond and whom we thank for his presence because he was also present all night in the Chamber with us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u3	Minister, the numbers of the epidemic and the human tragedies they hide are improving. If they are not good enough to soften the measurements, they are not bad enough to harden them either. Therefore, we must maintain our efforts and, above all, enforce the current measures because it is unacceptable today that the efforts of a vast majority of our citizens are ultimately compromised by a very small minority. This repressive message that has been launched, whether by your government or by the College of Attorneys General this week, will only be effective under several conditions. First, it should not be addressed to citizens alone. It must also apply to employers who do not respect telework when it is mandatory. It is enough to observe the traffic jams during peak hours, but also to listen to the workers to see it. This message must also be accompanied by sufficient human resources to support the King's prosecutors but also the police officers in their work, which is ultimately increasingly ungrateful. You also need a message of prevention because the message that was scanned and repeated during the first wave and that was to say "stay home!" is not today, when it should be. It is also time to move towards labour penalties which, for some, will have far more effect than a fine, even if it is very salty. Finally, there is a need for a message of support for young people, isolated people, people who respect the rules but for whom this respect is increasingly difficult to observe and has even become untenable both financially and psychologically, and I know, Minister, that you are aware of this. Minister, if we want to act as a team against this virus that only increases inequality but also desperation, we will have to make sure that we don't forget anyone and provide opportunities for everyone. Therefore, Minister, can you assure us that tomorrow's Consultation Committee will take it fully into account, but also that the measures that will be taken will not be relativized or contradicted by any member of your government this time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u4	Madam President, Minister, Steven Van Gucht has been pointing out all week that we are at a turning point. It is this week and these days crucial to reverse the slightly rising trend, which does not seem to be happening for the time being. Minister, I want to be hopeful with you. Tomorrow, the schools will go on holiday and a number of companies will press the pause button. If we all use our common sense, stay at home, do not go to the shopping streets and have modest parties in a limited circle, we can cash in on that tilting moment. Then we can go to the safe haven that we have in mind. Mr. Secretary, you're worried. I am, too. Our neighbors are closing. We read in the press about additional measures. What, however, are additional measures other than closing down schools or shops? Minister, perhaps we do not emphasise enough that so many Belgians have complied with the measures. We have incredibly much respect for that. It is, after all, thanks to those people who have complied with the strict rules that we have got so much down the curve. With regard to the tilting moment, I have to say that the hospitals will not be able to cope if the figures rise again. Professor Vlieghe stated two weeks ago on the corona committee that it might be time for the new barometer. After all, we need clarity now. What if? What's the scenario if the numbers are going the wrong way? What's the perspective if they go the right way? What's the safe haven? Mr Minister, I have two simple questions. First of all, is there going to be a new barometer? Secondly, what will we do about the motivation of the ever-growing group of corona-tired people who no longer follow the rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u5	Minister, I have already asked you on a regular basis about the covid vaccination. At that time it was usually about the strategy, about making plans, about the oh so important registration, but now we are at another stage, the stage in which it becomes concrete. A number of countries have already started to vaccinate at-risk groups, but in Europe we are still waiting for the approval of the European Medicines Agency. It would be there next week and we could start vaccination before Christmas. So I would like to know what is really going on with the vaccines, because it is getting a little unclear for the population. You have informed us that Pfizer will deliver 10,000 vaccines to Belgium in December. France expects about a million vaccines around the parties. Germany wants to start vaccination on the day after Christmas. You have already stated that European cooperation guarantees a proportional distribution of vaccines across Europe. Shouldn't we get more vaccines before the new year? A symbolic delivery is positive, but of course that is not the real start of the campaign. When can we really expect this first serious shipment? How many vaccines will we get? Will that happen proportionally? Can you guarantee that? Do you have a contract there and have you received in that contract, which is still secret and which we do not have access to, a timeline with forecasts of delivery for the coming weeks and months? A symbolic vaccination at Christmas is a fine thing, Minister, but even more beautiful would it be to give our people at the Christmas table a real perspective, a real future, a real outlook for a beautiful summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u6	Minister, for young people social contacts are just as important as healthy eating and healthy moving. It is time we recognised that as a society. That's what 250 professors and teachers in the newspaper say today. I think they're right. All signals go in the same direction. Young people say they can't stand it anymore: "I've been home for a year. I don't see anyone anymore. I'm walking up the walls. I'm exhausted by social isolation. I rise every day with stress and fear." You know that most young people are only at home for a computer. Their hobbies are gone. Friendships are in lockdown and a perspective seems very far away. It is difficult not only for schoolchildren, but also for students and working young people. They go to work all week, day after day, and look forward to the weekend, and then find that nothing comes in that weekend. Young people also often feel that in this corona crisis they are being fingered very hard, as if they were responsible for the corona pandemic. They also feel that they are at the front of the queue of fines and GAS fines, but at the back of the queue of measures. Minister, we must ensure that this generation does not become a corona generation. Tomorrow there will be an important Consultative Committee. You know that the young people do not have such a strong lobby as, for example, the VBO. That is why I ask you to put young people first in the consultation committee tomorrow. I understand very well that it is difficult, because the figures are rising. However, I would like you to leave the Youth Consultation Committee tomorrow and look for a perspective for their social life, hobbies and mental health. That is a specific question and a mandate for the Consultative Committee tomorrow. Make sure that young people come first when giving perspective in this corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u7	Madam President, Minister, tomorrow the Consultative Committee will meet for the 20th time. Christmas holidays are at the door, schools are closing the doors, a lot of people will take time off. This is the time to reduce the numbers. We must encourage people to follow the measures. Those who are hard learners must, in my view, be hard hit. I regret the lockdown parties throughout the country, including in the College of Europe in my own city. They're not appropriate. I am pleased that the College of Attorney General has provided clarity by stating that serious offenders will be dealt with hard. However, our country is neither a police state nor a drone state. On this point, too, the College of Attorneys-General expressed itself clearly, as there was some ambiguity on the ground in this respect. As Bruggeling who lives not far from Sluis, and on behalf of many border municipalities on the border with the Netherlands, I would like to make a special appeal to you. Now that the non-essential stores in the Netherlands are closed, the chance has become that Dutch people will buy their last Christmas gifts or come to fun shopping. When the non-essential shops in the Netherlands were closed, the government made it clear to the Belgians that they were not welcome in the Netherlands. Well, I hope that tomorrow you will send out a similar clear signal so that the border communities will not have any problems. As MEPs, we are looking forward, together with the people, to the outcome of the Consultation Committee tomorrow. I hope that you will already be able to reflect a direction, that you can already tell us whether or not new measures will be introduced. There was also a raiser this week. After all, the European Community will give the green light for a first vaccine before Christmas. Vaccination will therefore be possible before 5 January. Mr Minister, when will the first load be there and when will the first (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u8	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 2020 will undoubtedly be a year that we will never forget. Our lives were shaken up, both our professional lives and our social lives. The worst part is that we had to say goodbye to a lot of people. At the moment, despite the increasing number of infections, we are on the eve of the new year 2021. That's a year in which there's a bright spot. There's a light at the end of the tunnel. The vaccines, which have to give back our normal lives, will soon be there, sooner than expected. Even earlier than expected, there was positive news from the European Medicines Agency, which states that the approval of vaccines will take place by 21 December. Mr Minister, yesterday you also told us that Pfizer-BioNTech will deliver 10,000 doses, allowing us to vaccinate 5,000 people in our country before the end of the year. With this positive prospect, I hope, and I believe from the bottom of my heart, that all the compatriots will make a final effort to comply with the measures, in order to further reduce the virus. Those efforts are needed. The corona study shows that everyone adheres to the agreed measures. The measures are clear. The communication around it is also clear. Minister, the President of the European Commission, Ms Ursula von der Leyen, asked the Member States to start vaccination together. Does this mean that it already has an insight into the work of the EEA? Does this mean that the action is effectively guaranteed and that the medicine is approved? The start of vaccination does not mean that we can abandon the preventive measures. How will you motivate the population in the coming crucial weeks and months to continue to comply with these measures? People need perspective in this difficult period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u9	Mr. Secretary, would you have enough for your answer in eight minutes?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow is the Consultative Committee, where we will look with the other governments at the situation, the circulation of the virus, the infections and what to do. We always do that first on the basis of the figures. At the end of October, in our country, we had 22,000 corona virus infections per day. Today there are almost ten times less, about 2,400 a day. That's a great drop, but it's still way too much. It's too much. We expected that this decline would at some point be less strong because we had reopened the schools, which is necessary and good, and because life resumed after the autumn holidays. That wouldn't have surprised us. What worries us today is that we see increases that are remarkable in a number of provinces. They must not be the harbinger of a flare that would lead to a third wave. We can't go through that. We'll see what we can do tomorrow in these circumstances. I will not anticipate that now, but one thing is clear. The contagions need to go further down. They have to descend again. We all have a very good opportunity during the Christmas holidays, because the schools are closed and many more people are at home. We can provide a very nice Christmas gift for ourselves, for the care sector and for young people by limiting our personal contacts as much as possible during this period and celebrating the Christmas and New Year's celebration in very small circles. That is not an easy message, we know, but the best gift for young people who are having a hard time is that this misery does not last too long. So we need to get the numbers down, and that's what we have in our hands. The fact that we are now among the best in Europe has not come of our own accord. That is because a overwhelming majority of people adhere to the measures. It is constantly argued that motivation is falling. Is that so? This is not evident from the surveys that are being carried out. The motivation has increased over the past few weeks. However, it is true that the reports about the fact that we could not have ordinary Christmas have been a turnoff for many people. A lot of people are having an extra hard time with that right now. That's right. It strengthens us, however, that a overwhelming majority wants to keep to the agreements and show solidarity. That is what we will have to do. As for the minority who does not respect these rules, no, there will be no more leniency and certainly no more for all those who organize or participate in illegal festivals! Fines have been substantially increased this week to €750 for participants, €4,000 for organizers and there will still be an opportunity to seize the cars involved. They are warned, but it is a small minority that exceeds the rules; the majority knows what solidarity is. Of course, we are concerned about compliance with the telework obligation, and we find that it is becoming less and less respected, that there is fatigue in this matter. That is why the federal government has already sent a very clear signal this week, both to the private sector, to employers, to the social partners, but also to the public sector, where the federal system is even stricter than we are asking the private sector. And my colleague, Petra De Sutter, reminded all services of the very strict regime that applies in our administrations. The situation in our neighbouring countries and the borders are indeed a matter of concern. You have undoubtedly heard that the Prime Minister has been in close contact with neighbouring colleagues in recent days. This morning, together with Prime Minister Rutte of the Netherlands and Prime Minister Laschet of North Rhine-Westphalia, he sent a very clear message in Germany. When all these political leaders say we should stay home, that is another message of solidarity by staying home and sticking to the rules. The consigns are ready. Don't cross the border! Funshopping is not allowed in Belgium and is not possible. The mayors will take care of that. That is also what we expect from them. Questions have been asked about the vaccination. Mrs Depoorter, you are right that we must be ready. We'll be ready, too. We depend on the suppliers. You can't ask me to say here what Pfizer will certainly do. You'll have to ask Pfizer. We're done. A few hours ago, I had contact with the Prime Minister and the Chairman of the Task Force on Vaccination, so that we could give the clear answer to Mrs von der Leyen that we are participating. If Pfizer will distribute a limited number of symbolic deliveries equally among the European countries to say in those difficult days between Christmas and New Year that science and solidarity bring hope, then we will also be able to give that signal of hope limited that vaccination is taking place. At the beginning of January, our campaign can be rolled out. This European solidarity is an enormous strength. Everyone on the European train is treated equally. Other European countries will not get a head start on us. Nobody's got a line for it. We don't ask that either because Pfizer is with us. Everyone here is treated equally. The challenge for us is to be ready. We'll be ready. Not being ready would do real injustice to our people, to the most vulnerable people who need this vaccine and to everyone who is waiting for perspective. Let me finish with that. We have achieved a great deal with the population, from the most dramatic figures from all over Europe to the better figures. We can look back on a fantastic achievement, but the last pieces are the hardest. However, we will succeed, on the basis of sustained solidarity, in view of the difficulties that people have, older people, younger people and people with children. We'll get out. The decisions we will take tomorrow will strengthen that policy and approach, better framework it, strengthen it where necessary and implement it decisively everywhere. That's what's gonna happen tomorrow. Thank you for your interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u11	I thank the Minister for his answer. Nevertheless, I regret that he has not answered in concrete terms the question of the means available both to front-line actors to enforce the measures, and to the public to keep it good. If we are to avoid this third wave that no one will recover from, neither healthcare staff nor young people, nor our self-employed people, we absolutely must limit our movements and launch the signal to stay at home. It is a signal that you send to the Dutch but not to the attention of our people, at least not clearly enough. Indeed, the restriction of our movements is a restriction of our freedoms, but we must be aware and tirelessly explain that this is the only way for us to find all these same freedoms as soon as possible. We are all entitled to hope for this new year, and for that we all have the cards in hand – those of solidarity and collective responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I share your hope, but your optimistic messages as if our motivation is going well, I do not share. I feel it myself and in my surroundings. The days are dark and there is uncertainty about 2021. The fact that we're having a hard time is human. The rising curve doesn't make it any better either. Now, however, we must persevere. Today 21 families in Belgium hear that their loved ones didn't make it. Next week, 92 families will not only worry about the empty chair, but will not even be able to make a phone call to their loved one. In the first wave there was a shortage of mouth masks. I have a feeling that in this second wave we were short of solidarity and motivation. I sincerely hope this is not the harbinger for the third wave. Let me close with a message of hope for this year's end. 2021 may not start under a good star, but spring will be better.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u13	Minister, 5 January is the date in our agenda, as you and the Prime Minister have created the expectation that the vaccination campaign will start on that day. I hope that you will be able to meet that expectation and that the vaccines will be available in proportionate quantities. A symbolic vaccination is nice, but we do not need a real vaccination campaign. Last night we had a long budget discussion. You say you'll be ready. However, the budget debate shows that you did not provide the money for the vaccination campaign. I find it hallucinating that you are not participating in the amendment that we have tabled. So you do not provide resources, specifically to spend on the vaccination campaign. I will continue to question you about this, because now that it is getting concrete, we need these moneys.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u14	Minister, you have spoken of motivation. I think motivation is related to perspective. You say, and that is important, that the perspective must be: not a third wave. That must be the perspective for everyone. The perspective must also be that at some point we must be able to reopen the life that is now locked. My concern and question today was and is: if we have discussions, if the Consultative Committee is having discussions on the reopening of life, can we ensure that the importance of young people is also at the heart of these discussions? You know as well as I do that these same young people have little economic pressure or lobbying power. That is why a call in Parliament is appropriate to place young people's interests at the centre of the reopening of life on two axes: first, hobbies, social life and relaxation and, secondly, mental well-being. That is the call when we discuss perspective, because without perspective there is no motivation, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u15	Minister, my daughter is 16. She came home from her exams and hoped to get back to school soon. The holiday is just beginning, I said, but she replied that she will be home for two and a half weeks during the holiday and her friends will not see much. When I drove here this morning, biostatist Geert Molenberghs asked not to make a bid about closing the schools. I hope, therefore, that if we can lower the figures, this will not happen and that we will think about the psychological well-being of young people. We need to save them and give them a perspective.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u16	Minister, the people are concerned, but I regret that the parties to the alternative truth that feed concern continue to claim that the money for the vaccine is not provided. I believe the vaccine will be there. The resources are provided. All the records show that, so I hope this crap can stop. Health and economics go hand in hand. This month's rising consumer confidence is a good sign. People have hope for the new year and for the vaccine. I wish you, Minister, and all of Parliament's colleagues and staff, a very hopeful and, above all, healthy 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u17	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, over a week, three studies have been published. One from the KCE, one from the League of Families and a third from Solidaris and the ULB. Three studies for an overwhelming finding: too many people are still struggling in our country to treat themselves because of lack of means. Poverty is slowly killing. The more vulnerable people are, the worse their health, the more serious, chronic and disabling they are. If we add the constant stress in which they live, the consequences on their life expectancy are terrible. Minister, hearing that someone is not going to the doctor or dentist because they don't have the necessary money is unacceptable. To hear that a person must choose between buying the evening meal for their child or the prescribed medicine box is unacceptable. To hear that one in three poor people will die before they can benefit from their retirement is unacceptable. These findings are terrible. They're inaudible and they have to make us all angry. To this tragedy must be added the consequences of the health crisis and the tsunami of mental health problems. Minister, this government has made the fight against health inequalities a priority. The studies we've been reading this week are good for him. There is a social emergency to take action now. What battle plan do you envisage to make equal access to health care for all a reality? What measures are envisaged today to reduce patients' bills and specifically those of the most fragile? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u18	Colleague, it is true that several studies now show this inequality in access to care, and inequalities in health itself. As you know, we have reached a government agreement that is very ambitious in this area. For example, for the first time, we have determined that we would systematically set aside part of the growth in resources for innovation in care and improved access to care. Very concrete work is being done to this extent. For example, within INAMI, Ms Rita Baeten took over the leadership of a steering committee of all stakeholders. I can inform you that today this steering group will already make recommendations in the first half of next year. The KCE study shows that health is deteriorating as socio-economic status declines. We see chronic diseases more frequently in lower incomes. The financial threshold to go to the attending physician, specialist or dentist is too high for low-income families. A whole series of policies must be pursued. I will mention the extension of automatic granting of rights, the extension of the paid third party scheme and the problem of dental care. We have also very recently decided on projects that are very innovative, such as community health workers who need to address inequalities in access to care and help eliminate them. I think we're ready to tackle this huge challenge. I am not going to give you all the details of the projects that are being prepared, but it is an extremely important project for me and for the whole government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u19	Minister, first of all, I thank you for your answer, which demonstrates the government's ambition to respond to the urgent need. The health crisis further increases insecurity. Despite the many support measures that the government has already taken, it has yet to take new ones tomorrow. Health inequalities will widen again and again if we do not pay attention to them now. This is a fact; they will continue to reach even harder the vulnerable, those who were already affected and who were struggling to make ends meet, but they will also reach all those self-employed who have had to stop working, all those temporary unemployed workers who are also facing difficult endings of months. Mr Minister, as you have said, the lines to be put forward are the strengthening of the paying third party. This is also the extension of the increased intervention. It is also the reduction of supplements. I really encourage you to continue to do so. We'll be by your side. Health is a precious asset, but it cannot be a commodity, let alone a luxury product. Thank you, Minister, and good work!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u20	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I choked on my coffee when I leaked that 15% of the state aid for corona was being misused. At the same time, while certain sectors, such as catering, contact professionals and many other forgotten sectors are calling the alarm, a lot of federal aid goes to firms that are wrongly applying for aid. These are frauds, ghost companies, zombie companies and other firms that were already on the verge of bankruptcy at the start of the crisis. It goes much further. Even the NACE BEL codes are adapted to your heart's content to pass through back gates along the cash register. The worst thing, Mr Minister, is that hardly any checks on aid applications are being carried out. I understand that we are in an unprecedented economic crisis. Since the covid outbreak, I have always advocated supporting honest companies to protect the many hundreds of thousands of Flemish jobs. The federal police of Brussels, assisted by the Charleroi police, even carried out thirty searches and twenty-five arrests in a case of extensive fraud. This involved the creation of fake companies with false identities to indicate temporary unemployment due to corona and thus collect the bonuses. How can Dimona returns be used retroactively, although your services should normally be able to find out at the push of a button? Minister, I have three specific questions for you. What will you do to close the leaks in the system? What will you do to release more controls and to intercept unlawful use of aid? Finally, how will you recover the funds unduly paid?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u21	Madam President, Mr Van Lommel, thank you for your question. I have taken note of the reports from the Vrt, which show that the misuse of corona aid is estimated at five to ten percent. I've asked my administration to analyse the situation. I can tell you that the health crisis forced us to take exceptional measures to reduce the economic and social impact. For example, the procedures for temporary unemployment had to be greatly simplified. Certain checks are limited in order to cope with the explosive increase in the number of applications. People with bad intentions can try to take advantage of the situation, but the inspection services are doing their best to prevent abuse. All companies and employees are subject to IT checks and/or administrative checks. If an anomaly is detected, an investigation will be conducted. These studies show that the vast majority of companies and employees comply with the rules. 13,880 investigations carried out so far by the RVA revealed 4,355 infringements. I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate and thank the inspection services for the work they are doing at this difficult time. They ensure the safety of workers and at the same time combat fraud. On Tuesday, thanks to cooperation between the inspection services, the police and the public prosecutors, we were able to dismantle a large fraud network and arrest 25 people. Together with my colleagues Vincent Van Peteghem, for tax fraud, David Clarinval, for support for the self-employed, and Frank Vandenbroucke, I am doing everything I can to prevent abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u22	Madam President, Minister, the facts contradict you, because my heart is bleeding. Many well-meaning companies are threatened with destruction. A lot of jobs are on the rise. This corona crisis is costing us a lot of money, while the whole system is as leaky as a sieve and tens of millions of euros go to fraudsters. It shows all the more that you do not really control the management of the crisis, work out everything half-heartedly, act emotionally and have not learned from the blunders of the past, despite the millions of euros you have paid in the fight against covid. A monitoring mechanism is apparently not considered sufficiently, because the RVA ultimately controls only 5% of applications for temporary unemployment. Explain that to the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u23	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is facing a third wave. In our neighbouring countries, shops are closed and schoolchildren are sent home. Curfew early. Our figures are better, but let us not make a snapshot of them. Everyone is trying very hard today to avoid stricter measures. We ask a lot of our citizens, but we do not know exactly what is happening in the workplace. We can see that the traffic jams remain. We are also flooded, every day for the past week, with anecdotes about employers who do not comply with the corona measures. Teleworking is an important means to prevent the further spread of the virus, but it is remarkably less done than in spring. Of course, measures only make sense if they are properly respected everywhere. Mr Minister, according to our party, there are three reasons why these measures are not being complied with in the workplace. First of all, the seriousness is denied. Employers sometimes trivialize it. Ridiculization in a hierarchical environment is, of course, particularly damaging. How do you ensure that employees know where to go when they are confronted with this? Secondly, one sometimes feels invincible. Those who take off their mouth mask for a food store can be fined for drinking a takeaway coffee, but the workplace is much less visible. It is a good thing that you are releasing additional inspectors, but what is your strategy to control these workers even more and to increase the chances of taking them? Thirdly, closing is more expensive. What's a check if the punishment doesn't hurt? How do you ensure that an employer is unable to count on money by failing to comply with your corona measures? (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u24	Madam President, Mrs Vanrobaeys, the government is fully aware of the fact that the obligation to do telework is being respected and monitored too little, while the health crisis is still raging and we are at a turning point today to get the second wave under control. Telework is needed to minimise the number of movements and thus also to prevent the spread of the virus, primarily for the protection of the worker himself, but also for the protection of his family. Employers must also be fully aware of the importance of complying with mandatory telework. In order to improve the follow-up of the mandatory telework, the following measures have been taken: The Social Intelligence and Investigation Service - SIOD - will develop a awareness campaign in consultation with the communication services of the various services and with my policy cell. In January, SIOD will carry out checks in the tertiary sector together with all social inspection services. All inspection services will optimise the monitoring of breaches of mandatory telework.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u25	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I think Christmas vacation will give you some room to work out your plans. In any case, we hope that things will improve quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand that even if everyone is working at home, we still face a huge challenge, because working in isolation for months at home is extremely difficult mentally. I think that employers can also make a difference by ensuring human contact, even if it is digital. A digital coffee break with all colleagues can really be a pleasure. Christmas is at the door. The best gift we can get is lower contagion rates so we can get more and more. The need to move forward has never been as high as it is now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u26	Mr. Minister of Mobility, have you had the opportunity to see the Investigative Report of the RTBF last night? I don't know if you had the same impression as me, but it smelled a little bit of a mess! This impression has struck me, because it is still incredible that a train station, whose starting budget was 37 million euros, finds itself with a budget of 324 million euros, while it is not yet finished. That's amazing! The report highlights the extent to which the selection of Mr. Calatrava's project has been the subject of pressure and attempts to copy. Not political pressure from anywhere: Mr Di Rupo is quoted, mayor of Mons at the time! Pressure on the jury to choose his own project. Mr Minister, what is crazy is that we managed to transform this project, which was initially a 37 million euro bridge into a station with more than 320 million euros, without changing the call for tenders. How did this happen? They said, "Oh, guys, we're gonna build a bridge. What are we doing? Shall we shoot down the walls? Okay, let's cut down the walls... Put me on a roof!... All in all, put me on an extra station!" Is that how it is? This is crazy! We're in Belgium! It's really sloppy. Everyone is clear about this. All the lawyers are clear: it's illegal. It would have been necessary to make a new call for tenders. With an Ecolo minister, we expected to have the light. We thought "he'll open the curtains" and we'll see something else! What do you say last night on Twitter? "The past is the past. Let's close this chapter!" But, Minister, what do you want to hide? It is not because your then Minister Ecolo (2012), Mr. Philippe Henry, granted the town planning permit that we must not make all the light! Minister, we have to open the curtains! The people still have the right to know what's going on here! My question is very simple: for the Ghent station, an audit had been requested from the Court of Auditors. Do you intend to ask him for the station in Mons?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u27	Mr Hedebouw, I must confess that I am quite surprised to be the target of your question. I have to tell you that I was as shocked, if not more shocked than you, by the vision of RTBF's report on the Investigation program yesterday on Mons station. A train station is designed to accommodate travellers. But the money that is invested in the train must be used to drive trains. My commitment is that every euro should be used as correctly as possible for the benefit of mobility, with high ambitions, which I have already been able to state. The decision to build this station, whose project has evolved, was taken in 2005. The various choices were made until 2015. They still have to be finished by the board of directors, where my party was not represented. That is why I say that the Mons railway station project is a choice of the past, because it was taken in 2005 and 2015. It is a choice of the past because it does not match the expectations of today's travellers. This is a choice from the past because I am making the commitment here that, tomorrow, SNCB, together with its current leaders, will be better managed than it was when these choices were made. Above all, I can tell you that I, the Minister of Mobility, will not accept such choices in the future. I want, together with the SNCB leaders, to improve governance by ensuring that every euro is invested in rail and that these euros will benefit users. The stations of tomorrow must be functional, accessible, multimodal, of a better value for money than this Mons project. They are places of life that must be open to their environment. I agree, I think, on this subject with the current leadership of SNCB. I intend to include these principles in the future public service contract. As far as your specific question is concerned on the fact that you will have an ally with the minister who is in front of you to shed light on this project which has gone a little bit further. The Court of Auditors is simply an organ of Parliament. It is up to Parliament to decide eventually that an audit should be carried out on the Mons railway station project, as was the case for the Ghent railway station. I can simply make the additional commitment to those I have already made that I, as the Minister responsible for SNCB, will ensure that I work with SNCB on the work that would be carried out on the subject. In fact, citizens have the right to know, but above all they have the right to make better use of money than was the case with this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u28	Minister, the signal given is essential for the future, of course, since such stations will no longer be built, but it is also important to be able to examine the past. It is essential to understand how a project costing €324 million could be achieved without a further call for tenders. I hear the minister is open to further exploration. And I appeal to all colleagues. The audit on the Ghent railway station came after a Parliament resolution. The PTB will then submit a motion for a resolution to you. The minister seems to have expressed a favourable opinion. I therefore have no doubt that the Members of his party will follow. I therefore appeal to all groups. This audit which was done for Ghent, it is certainly possible to carry out it for the station of Mons. We can no longer tolerate such acts affecting railway stations, which are the symbol of our public service. I would remind you that with this budget, we could have renovated 108 of them. Public money must be used to ensure that the public service benefits the people. That's indispensable. For this reason, we must make all the light.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u29	Minister, we are told by the media that a new President for Belfius has finally been found. At the moment, Mr Jos Clijsters, who became 70 years old in March, is still chairman. He expressly stated last year that, in view of his age, he had waived a new term of office as President. In January, your predecessor, Mr De Croo, came to the Finance Committee with the surprise that Mr Clijsters is still doing two more years, despite the fact that a very good candidate had been found at the end of 2019, in particular Mr Filip Dierckx, a former top banker of BNP Paribas. Mr Dierckx, one of the most experienced bankers in Belgium, did not make it. Later this year another search was started for a successor for Mr Clijsters. Again a headhunter was appointed. They were looking for a strong banking profile, someone with a lot of experience in the banking sector. That is not illogical, because the challenges for Belfius are very great, just as for the banking sector as a whole. Now we hear from the media that a certain Chris Sunt, a former lawyer, would become the new President of Belfius. According to the press, the nuclear cabinet would speak on this issue in the near future. Is it true, Mr Minister, that Mr Sunt will be put forward by Belfius and that the nuclear cabinet will give its opinion on this matter in the near future? Belfius worked with a headhunter. Has he expressed a preference in his recommendation for a particular candidate, as is customary? If so, who were those candidates? Was Mr. Sunt also brought in by that headhunter? Has a fit-and-clean procedure been launched or has an informal examination of Mr Sunt's candidacy been carried out? Finally and not unimportant, because the bank itself was looking for someone with a great banking experience, why is it that (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u30	As you said yourself, the procedure is under way and I shall therefore confine myself to an overview of that procedure. Our Federal Participation and Investment Company, the FPIM, is closely involved in the follow-up to the selection procedure and is represented on the Board of Directors of the Belfius Bank by the President, Mr Lizin. The managing director, Mr Van Loo, is also the adviser to the government. They are, of course, kept very regularly informed and consulted on the matter. Last year there was indeed a search for a successor to Mr Clijsters as President of the Belfius Bank. The person who was pushed forward was ultimately not acceptable to everyone. As a result, Mr Clijsters accepted to continue the Presidency for a maximum period of two years, by the end of the general meeting of April 2022. A search was started again in the summer of 2020 because Mr Clijsters had indicated that he wanted to stay on until 2021 and not until the general meeting of 2022. At that time the FPIM was again consulted and involved in the procedure. At the beginning of November 2020, a special ad hoc committee set up at the bank made a proposal on which the FPIM was consulted again. At the end of November, the Board of Governors of Belfiusbank finally accepted the proposal put forward by that committee on an ad hoc basis. The proposal will normally be put to the vote at the general meeting in April 2021, subject, of course, to a positive outcome of the fit-and-clean procedure at the ECB. I can't give you any further information yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u31	Minister, I have heard a lot about the procedure. In the end, therefore, a decision was taken by the Board of Directors, in consultation with the FPIM. The name itself is clearly not yet available to you, although it is already circulating in the newspapers. From December 2020 to April 2021 is a long period and it is a pity that Parliament cannot be further informed on the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u32	Minister, as you know, there is no point in detailing it, the covid crisis, the closure measures, the anxiety of consumers that today, many self-employed people are kneeling, having difficulty, if they succeed, paying their rent and a number of fixed costs. You are the head of the VAT administration as Minister of Finance. You are therefore responsible for managing VAT-related issues. Today, while the independents are subject to the crisis and are crushed by it, they receive a number of fines of up to 15% of the sum due with 0.8% interest. An independent told me online: "Mr.Ducarme, my bridge right won't even be enough to pay the fines and interest." It's obviously stress and administrative burdens. We need to get back in touch with the accountant to try to get rid of this fine. I will ask you, minister, to take more initiatives for our independents. What the Reform Movement wants in the light of the situation is the cancellation of fines and the cancellation of interest. We cannot stand by and add pain to the pain of those independents who continue to be charged as they are today in terms of VAT at the start of your administration. They cannot even anticipate the fine, i.e. when an independent person wishes as a good father to tell the administration that he wants to avoid the fine and immediately ask for a plan of spreading, he is told that he must wait for the fine to fall. There are really initiatives to be taken in this area. We're waiting for you to candle, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u33	Madam President, Mr Ducrame, as you rightly point out, it is true that taxable persons may be subject to VAT administrative fines when they do not, in particular, comply with their obligation to pay tax to the Treasury on time. This is due to the generally automatic nature of the fines. I am aware that, in some cases, these shortcomings result from the health circumstances we are experiencing and the financial difficulties that taxable persons face in fulfilling this obligation. That is why my administration has put in place a whole series of measures to enable taxable persons to overcome their temporary financial difficulties. Among these measures is the possibility for these taxable persons to request from the administration a remission of the VAT fines for non-payment or late payment of the tax. Such remission may be granted at the individual request of the taxable person, on the basis of the above-mentioned health circumstances and provided that all the periodic declarations have been lodged within the time limits and that no fraud has been detected. I have decided to extend this measure valid from the beginning of this crisis until 31 March 2021. In addition, in the longer term, I am considering, together with my administration, an in-depth reflection on this issue of administrative fines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answer. As a former independent minister, I still receive many calls from independents. You'll see, once you've been replaced, you'll still get a lot of calls from taxpayers. What are they telling me? They feel like they're being treated like "less than nothing," a little "like shit," some people dare to tell me. Minister, I'm afraid I have to tell you that the answer you're giving me does not prompt me to tell them that's not true. Minister, we are beyond the period of reflection. We need action. In relation to this question, we mean, at the level of the Reform Movement, that you can not take the potential relief measures we already know but go further and cancel the fines that have been recruited, on the one hand, and cancel the interest on the other. The situation of the self-employed in our country today implies not a reflection as you say, but action and that you are fully mobilized on these issues now and in 2021. We thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u35	Madam President, Mr Mahdi, three specific points. Firstly, for the seventh month in a row, asylum rates in our country are rising. Since last month, we have had an increase of as much as 16 percent. Apparently that is still not enough, because you are going to take the kite out of migrant camps in Greece. How will you check that these 150 young people are not lying about their age, as very often happens? When will it finally be enough, I wonder. How many migrants do we still have to bring to Belgium before we have finally paid our debt as white Europeans? Secondly, last week you said here in plenary that you would continue to work in silence behind the scenes on closed return centres. I have had to laugh very much at the statement that you are working in silence, because you have said in all the newspapers that there will be new closed return centres, but it turns out that there will be nothing at all. So much noise, Mr Mahdi, but no result. Just be honest: will these new return centres be there this time as you promised, or will they not be there as Secretary of State Michel said? I shall repeat my question from last week, to which you unfortunately did not reply. Are you prepared to respond to my constructive proposal to create a temporary centre for forced return, for example by using prison boats or empty military sites? Thirdly, two weeks ago, after my presentation on the Canary Islands, you said that there is no future in the EU and therefore not in Belgium via this dangerous route. So what you are saying is that migrants who cross illegally to the Canary Islands will automatically see their asylum application refused and will therefore be repatriated. Could you clarify that for me? Something tells me that this was just a tough tweet and that none of this will come into the house. This time, please, Mr Mahdi, do not talk about anything else. Don't start with broken promises and Mr Francken's lax policy, don't start with tweets, don't start with that moral touch. No, Mr Mahdi, just answer the questions. That is what this Parliament is serving, and that is what the citizen expects of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u36	Madam President, Mr Van Langenhove, if I were to communicate like you, I would have been very proud and proud to say that this year, in my legislative term, even though I have been Secretary of State for only two months, we have the lowest number of asylum applications in the last few decades. However, considering the covid crisis and the impact of the lockdown, such statements do not fit. In April 2020, due to the lockdown, we recorded the lowest numbers in history ever. Comparing it with the November figures, as you do, is all too easy. When I discuss the figures for 2020, I could talk about an historic year and take credit as Secretary of State. However, I think the Fleming is a little more sensible. I would therefore ask you not to underestimate the Fleming. The Fleming is wise enough to realize that the figures need to be looked at a little more critically. I would therefore ask you to do the same yourself in your communication today and in the communication you are communicating to the outside world. What will bring the future of the number of asylum applications depends, as you know, on what is happening in the countries around us. We will have to look at what events may have an impact on asylum applications. You ask extra questions and I have no problem answering them, but I have actually already answered them. Last week I answered questions about the closed centres and I also made it clear that we want to speed up the existing procedure by working with the services. The problem is that you ask questions, but very often I have the impression that you are not listening to what I have to answer. After that, I have to observe, including in your communication on social media, that you are merely communicating your element, your piece of the question. However, the answer I give you, including to inform the citizen, does not give you. All I can do is speak to you like the spokesperson of the ideal world: clean it up. I will see you in the common section of your TikTok, Instagram and Facebook pages, because there too I will make clear to your viewers what the reality is and what the answers are to the questions you have asked me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u37	Mr Mahdi, the fact that you repeatedly refuse to answer the questions is a lot to say. Your silence says more than any answer you could ever give. Rest assured, the citizen also understands what that silence means. I come up with three very concrete, well-founded points, clear, concrete questions, but I am not getting any answers. No answer to the question how you will control the ages. No answer to the question when it will be enough. There will be no answer to the question of whether the new closed return centres will be there during this term of office. No answer to the question whether you are prepared to respond to our constructive proposal to work on temporary closed return centres. You're not even going into it. Some of your colleagues are good at turning around, but you do not even do that, Mr Mahdi. You also do not answer the question about your statements on the Canary Islands. The same silence over and over again. I would like to conclude by wishing you happy holidays and suggest that you put at the top of your list of good intentions for 2021 in order to do just a little better next year to give clear, concrete answers in Parliament, because that is what the citizen is entitled to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u38	This concludes the time for oral questions. I would remind you that the vote on a first package of amendments relating to the texts discussed on Wednesday is open. Be careful, because this is a new procedure. It will be closed at 4 p.m. Each Member has received an email containing the link to log in. The vote was open from 2.45 p.m. until 4 p.m. The texts concerned are Nos. 1668, 1534, 1677, 1654 and 1597. Thank you for voting on these amendments before 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u39	The next item is the counting of the ballot for the presentation of a double list of candidates for the appointment of a Dutch-speaking judge to the Constitutional Court. The next item is the inclusion of the votes in order to propose a list of two candidates for the appointment of a Dutch-speaking judge to the Constitutional Court. Nominations were announced in plenary on 17 September 2020. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 17 September 2020. The document containing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (1549/1) The piece with the names of the candidates was delivered to you. (1549/1) In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 3 December 2020, members were able to vote from Friday 4 December 2020 to today 4 p.m. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 3 December 2020, Members were able to vote from Friday 4 December 2020 until 4 p.m. today. The two youngest members present (Ms. Sophie Rohonyi and Melissa Depraetere) are invited to attend the counting of the ballots. This will now take place in Room 3. The two youngest members present (the ladies Sophie Rohonyi and Melissa Depraetere) are invited to be present at the recording of the votes. This will now take place in Room 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u40	The general discussion was resumed. The general discussion has resumed. We will resume the debate where we left it, with the package "Social Affairs, Employment, Pensions, Social Integration, Combating Poverty and People with Disabilities".
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, another speaker is on the agenda for this part of the debate. Mrs Samyn, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u42	Madam Minister, poverty can only be eradicated by a sustained effort, structural and long-term. Unfortunately, the risk of poverty is increasing year after year. Moreover, the corona crisis has more than ever raised the profile of structural poverty in Flanders and the other parts of the country. Unfortunately, therefore, the past year will be an absolute outlier and the consequences will be felt well into 2021, and probably beyond. It is no longer just the socially weak, such as single parents, elderly people with a small pension or people with disabilities, who are at higher risk of poverty. Because of this corona crisis we see a new group of people knocking on the door at the OCMW, namely small self-employed people, just graduates and many young families. Some families find it difficult, even with temporary unemployment benefits, to make ends meet at the end of the month. The invoices are piling up. The collection costs and negligence are increasing and creating a snowball effect that will cause social tragedies both in the short and long term. The growing inequality is found in all areas, in the areas of housing, heating, basic services, but also in the economic, social, medical and psychological fields. This latter aspect was often neglected and has now emerged in its full size due to the covid pandemic. The number of people who have to resort to food banks has increased exponentially. Food banks, soup kitchens and social restaurants are of course just an emergency solution. There is a need for a structural approach to the problem. Additional budgets have been made available. That is very good, but will they be sufficient to meet all the questions? There is still a big taboo on living in poverty. Many are waiting for the water to reach them before they go to the OCMW. Sometimes they do that much too late. We must not forget how many people are ashamed of their situation and what dramas are taking place behind the walls of many houses. Unfortunately, competences are fragmented across the different levels of government, making it difficult to act properly and achieve results. The maze of administration and regulations mainly ensures that socially weaker people fall out of the boat. Our party is convinced that the power to combat poverty should be brought as close as possible to those involved. In our view, the role of the OMCWs should certainly be extended. That would help to limit the non-take-up. As you know, we have reservations about the policy we are pursuing. According to the government, the solution lies in monitoring, calculating, studying, acquiring knowledge, getting a picture of people from the field by searching, bringing in experience experts and even more of the same. We know what the problems are and we know the needs, but will an increase in living wages solve everything? Rental prices are rising sharply and with a living wage you can hardly rent a quality house or flat. It is sad to see that a labourer lives all too often in poorly isolated and airy houses and therefore unhealthy. Thus, merely to keep up with the increase in rental prices, an indexation and an increase of a few percentage points will not suffice. According to your plan, you want to bring the most vulnerable people closer to the poverty line. So that's still below the poverty line. That's not really ambitious. Energy prices have also increased enormously and much more strongly than the index, although the actual price of energy represents barely a third of the energy bill and that bill is a flat, unfair tax that affects the poor in particular. Madam Minister, in order not to drown in the number of applications for aid, it is necessary to eliminate the imported poverty, which often settles in the hammock of our social security. You also know that most of these newcomers will end up with the aid applicants. The pressure on our social security and on our society was already high, but is increasing. Unfortunately, she's actually increasing. In 30 years the population in Belgium has increased by about two million inhabitants. All these people have to live somewhere, work and live. You also know that certain neighborhoods have become unlivable. Nevertheless, you are planning even more immigration, so to speak, to meet the reception obligation. However, immigration strengthens the problem of poverty. Integration in the context of family reunification has so far been a failure. The knowledge of one of the national languages is a tissue for bleeding. The support for this policy has also gradually dried up. People who are here now need help. However, this country is gradually full. Madam Secretary, I'm coming to the hatch now Persons with a Handicap. There are no less than 1.8 million people with disabilities in Belgium. The gradual treatment of the sector in the past by the political world is appalling. The sector has been begging for full attention at the highest level for years. On the positive side, we note that the government will make clear budgetary choices in the field of disability care. I have already noted in the committee that the points of interest mentioned in your plan are linked to the memorandum of the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities. It contains items which have been at the top of the Council's agenda for many years, but which unfortunately had snowed under. So it is good in that dossier that the sector is finally being listened to. The members of the National High Council for Persons with Disability are no longer legally valid in their duties. It is therefore a good thing that you will put an end to this situation. The industry's demand is to make that Council an effective advisory body. However, we are concerned about the composition of the Council secretariat, which is mainly French speaking. That is something we cannot reconcile with because of linguistic parity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u43	Can the conversations in the corridors continue? Mrs. Samyn, continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u44	Madam President, I come now to a sensitive matter. The level of activity of disabled people is much lower in Belgium and is below the European average. For the optimists, I say that one European country is still doing worse. The fact that you will be developing measures goes without saying, starting with the government itself, because the government does not reach its own quota of 3%. There is even a clear decrease in 2018 compared to 2017. It is therefore mainly the government itself that will have to step up. Then suddenly make sure these people get workable. And also make sure that they can enjoy the treated periods. Some flexibility in this area could facilitate their situation towards retirement age. Unfortunately, the risk of poverty among disabled people is twice as high as the risk for the rest of the population. Unfortunately, for this year and next year, the corona crisis will increase the risk of poverty among people with disabilities. You will increase the income replacement allowance to the poverty line. You have just spoken about it in relation to poverty itself. The increase announced is indeed encouraging, but it may be a little more ambitious. Just put it a little above the poverty line and break through that shameful border. During the discussion of your policy statement in the committee, I congratulated you on the measure announced concerning the elimination of the price of love, which, according to your note, will start on 1 January 2021. I may be mistaken, but I do not recall having seen the package of legislation that we have devoured in recent weeks go beyond that measure. Let us be clear, Flemish Interest certainly supports this proposal, but I take the liberty of asking you about the state of play of the proposal. The farce we have experienced, the day before yesterday, was another debate on this subject, with the amendment of the law allowing people with disabilities from 18 years of age to benefit from income guarantees instead of 21 years of age, we hope we will not have to go through it again. If the Constitutional Court is required to grant people with disabilities their fundamental rights, it is a disgrace to the political class. I would also like to emphasise the communication with DG Persons with Disability. This body should be made more accessible, transparent, simpler and customer-oriented. A person with disabilities should not be the victims of Kafkaian structures created by politicians. Then I come to universal accessibility. Accessibility of buildings remains a problem, as does the provision of services to SNCB. I repeat that it is really very poignant that only by 2024, and that for stations with more than 5,000 passengers a day, it will be done. The disabled traveller is left here to his or her fate. Elections will take place in 2024. And so you transfer the hot potato to the next government. Madam Minister, in the end the 'nothing about us without us' is the guiding principle for the policy to be pursued. For those who are not disabled, it is almost impossible to replace them. The need for consultation with the regions to bring legislation into line is clear, but the fragmentation of powers unfortunately leads to a large number of shortcomings in many areas. As I said, the Flemish interest would like to transfer the full power to the Regions. I have a piece for Minister Vandenbroucke, but he's not here right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u45	Minister Vandenbroucke is on the phone for a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u46	If it is good for colleagues, Minister Lalieux can answer first and then I will put my questions to Minister Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u47	That's how I'd do it, Mrs Samyn. Who wants answers first? Minister Dermagne, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u48	Madam President, we have already discussed a lot in committee. So I'll be brief. The objective of increasing the employment rate to 80% is indeed ambitious. It will be difficult to reach. We already knew it before the Coronavirus crisis. We know this even more today as we go through this crisis, with all its economic and social consequences. This remains the government's 2030 target. If we can reach him much sooner, I'll be delighted, happy and proud. How can we do this? Not alone. First and foremost with the Regions. As mentioned earlier, the issue of employment and work is a shared competence with the federated entities, and especially with the Regions. You have seen that the government agreement provides for support at the federal level for sub-regional initiatives and for specific projects on the ground. We have quoted the zero-unemployed territories, but it is of course true that the various suggestions that will come from the regions will be looked at with attention and interest, particularly in the context of the annual conference on employment. The aim of the latter will be to bring together the social partners, the federated entities, the regions which have competence in this field and, of course, experts from civil society. It will not be a matter of discussing or throwing ideas into the air, but of making concrete proposals. In order to achieve results and to lead to concrete projects, these annual employment conferences will have to be prepared seriously and in advance. This will be the case for the first annual conference on employment, which will have as its first theme and objective the development of career ends and harmonious career ends. This work will be prepared from the beginning of 2021 in consultation with the Regions, the social partners and civil society experts. I speak on behalf of the whole government and, in particular, on behalf of my colleague Karine Lalieux. I really believe in this annual conference on employment, and in this first experiment which will have to be completed in the course of 2021, but whose preparation will begin in the next few weeks. Partnership with the Regions, partnership with the social partners, because that is our history. Our organisation and our labour law have long been in a positive and interesting way, in consultation with the social partners. It's part of our history. This is essential in general, and it is even more so today. In the difficult times we are currently going through, we must be able to generate consensus on societal issues. It is easier when the socio-economic situation is brighter. It's more complicated today. It will be an even more complicated exercise in the coming months, we are aware of that. But we are also aware of the ability of the social partners to make concrete and serious proposals that are part of the needs of our time. Unfortunately, there are many of them. Some have long been known, others are newer and newer. I will not go back to the digitalization or the crisis of the coronavirus that has upset our labour market and our organization. This will have to be taken into account by and with the social partners. Increase in the lowest allocations to the poverty line. I am surprised to hear the positions of each other today, or at least some of them, because this was included in the Swedish government agreement. It was written and it was not realized. In this case, it is written in the government agreement and we intend, and even more than the intention, we have a commitment to achieve it. The first step will be taken in a few days. Of course, pitfalls should be avoided. We are aware of that. It's a fight all the time. Let's be clear! When I mention an employment rate target of 80%, it is because for the government as a whole, having a good job is essential. This is fundamental for the population as a whole. Everyone wants to have a good job. Everyone wants to work. For us, this is a major and essential objective, the priority of priorities. This ensures better social protection for women and men in this country, as well as fair financing of social security. I have heard criticism of the covid-19 aid measures, in particular the fact that temporary unemployment has been raised to a rate of 70% of the income capped with a supplement of EUR 5.63 per day paid by the ONEM. I am surprised by the approach and reading of some of this support measure. This support was not requested primarily by workers or workers' representatives. It was largely the representatives and federations of employers who asked us to put this mechanism in place, maintain it and extend it over time, as it is a measure of support for the survival of businesses, entrepreneurs and self-employed. It is also, and goes hand in hand, a measure to defend the purchasing power of workers who have not asked to find themselves in temporary unemployment corona. It is the situation that imposes it. This is a decision made by their employer. It's not a choice. There is therefore no question of an employment trap or of the willingness of some to be complacent in this state of temporary unemployment corona. No, it's an answer to the crisis! This is a response to employers' demands! This is an answer to the world of work! And we'll have to extend it as long as it's necessary. I have read that the Governor of the National Bank of Belgium believes that it will probably have to be extended further in time, beyond 31 March, to help and support our businesses and the world of work. These measures are essential to help both those who need them and businesses, but also because they maintain the purchasing power of a large part of the population. I am not going back to the debate we had earlier on the stimulus and support measures for the economy. It is still the National Bank of Belgium that says this: the recovery more vigorous than expected after the first wave could have been of this order thanks to domestic demand, thanks to the consumption of households. This measure of temporary unemployment corona also contributes to this support for the economy, domestic demand and domestic consumption. It is therefore also, in a way, a stimulus measure. I will conclude with the questions of working conditions, the balance between work and private and family life, low wages, new forms of work, particularly in the context of the platform economy. All of these themes are among the government's priorities. They will be examined by the social partners; here too, the question will have to be put, debated and, I hope, decided by the social partners. You know that the government agreement honours social consultation. And social consultation is not just about trade unions. I heard that on the one hand earlier: that the unions would guide the government to the wrestling. In social consultation, there are two banks whose interests are not always converging. The aim of this social concertation is, taking into account differences, differences of opinion, divergent interests, to try to bring them together for the benefit of the greatest number of people. This makes it possible to have proposals and devices for both responding to emergencies – and we have seen this in recent times in the context of the coronavirus crisis –, to solve the present, and to consider the future in the medium and long term, particularly in the context of a reorganization and modernisation of the labour market. The government, my colleagues and I have a lot to do with this social dialogue. We hope that it can provide a concrete and constructive result, which will contribute to the continuation and achievement of this 80% employment rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u49	Mr. Secretary, there will be an intervention from Mr. Samyn. She couldn't have asked you her questions because you were talking. She can do that now and you can answer right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u50	It will be a short intervention, but last but not least! Colleagues, Minister, the Department of Social Affairs is a difficult department, especially now that the unprecedented corona crisis has plunged us into the biggest economic and social crisis for a long time. Since March it is all hands on deck, in an attempt to save as much furniture as possible. The Social Security Office plays a key role in reducing the socio-economic damage that most of the population is currently suffering. This means that the reforms needed to keep social security affordable are being postponed. When we read that you find the low replacement rates particularly a problem for the higher income groups, you are actually saying that you will increase all pensions. Inequality will therefore become even greater, while the opposite must be the intention. In his note, the Minister indicated that he would consult with the social partners in particular. In the legislation that was pushed through at the end of this month, we have seen what that will mean. A number of much-needed increases in social benefits were adjusted, but in financing, continuity was only ensured by extending the dotations of equilibrium and pulling out some accounting tricks with the empty state treasury. No steps were taken towards a more balanced financing of social security. That exercise, as it's called, will be made later. However, 2021 will also offer little news in this respect. The economic impact of the crisis will not help both the direct income of social security and VAT revenues. We have seen so many passages of Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure over the last few weeks, that it was possible to do so. How difficult a fundamental reform will be has become painfully evident in the adaptation of the law on association work, which is even fired by the amateur sports sector. There is absolutely no state of urgency among policy makers. As long as everyone in choir keeps yelling that there's no problem, apparently there's no problem. Of the measures set out in the policy paper to achieve a more effective collection of social security contributions, we have in any case not yet noticed in the legislative work. Holy houses are left untouched. The existence of exceptional regimes puts pressure on the whole system and no one wants to get rid of their privileges. If this is to be tackled on the ground, it will have to be done without the social partners. However, you point out that the usual processes are not always sufficient to address the problems of our complex society and the challenges of the 21st century. What are you waiting for? The studies were made years ago. Only the political courage is lacking. However, the government should do much better. A non-take-up should rightly be avoided in all branches of social security. The way in which applications are made should be simpler, more clear. All fraud, deliberate avoidance and excessive use of all kinds of administrative and fiscal streaks must also be stopped. This requires clear and clear legislation. Unfortunately, in the last few weeks, we have had to determine what kind of messy draft laws the government has put forward. This will certainly not help to clarify the situation. Mr. Secretary, if it's okay, we'll say it too. The convergence of the statutes of employees and self-employed persons is further pursued. Of course there is still work to be done, but you will find a partner in this in our party. Where you are certainly going down the road is the new temporary law on association work, which de facto creates a new interim statute. Inequality is being reduced, but at the same time new inequalities are being created. So we hold on to our hearts when you work on the promised statutes of artists and artists. We hope that the evaluation will be ongoing and that it will not be long. Along this road, I would like to draw attention once again to the event sector. It was promised to the sector in mid-May that work would be carried out on its own joint committee. What is the state of play? Did you sit down with your competent federal colleague about that? Minister, several times in your note there is a more balanced regional distribution of the efforts to be made in terms of collection and disbursement. We look forward to the first initiatives to be taken in this respect. The reintegration into the labour market and the shaky functioning of ONEM and the Brussels Actriris, as pointed out by the Court of Auditors, still promise to provide Community fireworks. You can't transfer the invoice to Flanders forever, can you? Bathing and duties, you know? In terms of social security, this government opts for more Belgium, but also for more European Union. We are concerned about the European dimension that you want to give to your policy. Over the last few months, Europe has not shown any decisiveness in dealing with the crisis. We do not want a levelling of our social security. Not all European countries have the same standard of living, the same standard of social protection or the same socio-economic basis. You may regret that, but that is a reality. Europe can play a role, especially in the fight against cross-border social fraud and the fight against cross-border financial fraud, which cannot be combated at the level of one country. However, it must not become a race to the bottom simply because of the European unitary objective. That is what we fear in the areas of social protection which we now enjoy. Minister, there is no need for a European social union; you will not be happy to hear it smearing social security across the Union. It means new transfers from north to south or east in the areas of pensions, minimum income, health insurance and so on. Moreover, the Fleming is absolutely not waiting for more European Union. More EU means de facto even more money flows, even more transfers from Flanders to the European Union, while the Fleming already contributes most to the EU budget net. The Fleming has given enough. We've already given.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u51	Madam President, I hope I am not messing things up. During the debate in committee and at various stages in the debate, Mr Anseeeuw raised very pressing questions about the budget structure and the financing of social security. I have tried to answer these questions to the best of my ability, with figures giving an overview of how we see the budget. I suggest that I do not repeat this now. I have also tried to explain that we are currently aiming to make the financing of social security stable and robust. To this end, we provide for a number of special interventions in the programme law, with a view to stable and robust financing at the time when the basis on which VAT is levied is very volatile. I suggest I don't go back to that. I think those discussions with Mr Anseuw were interesting. We undoubtedly have different starting points, but a lot of figures have been put on the table. Mr Anseeeuw has also come back to something that we both think is important, and we have no disagreement about that, in particular the Plus-1 plan. This is about the encouragement we want to give for new recruitments at companies that really start recruiting people. Mr Anseeeuw proposed that the system of the target discount of the Plus-1 plan be extended by law. It was a very fair offer to settle that by law. I opposed it for the following reason. A KB was taken in which we will extend the Plus-1 plan indefinitely in time, although with an evaluation in March. After all, I think we have the same concern there, particularly is it efficient? The royal decision has been made. It has been sent to the Council of State and I expect the opinion of the Council of State by 7 January. I expect it to be published in the Belgian Official Journal in mid-January. That's on time. It must be there before the end of the first quarter, legally speaking, but Mr Anseeeuw is right when he says the sooner the employers are informed about it, the better. The information on this is already available today. It is on the website of the RSZ, completely technically expressed, so that employers and social secretariats can understand it. That website also refers to that royal decree coming up. I suggest that we assume that heaven will not fall on our heads between now and mid-January and that this royal decision will be published by then. The reason I don't like working by law here is that I think some things are always better regulated by royal decree and other things better by law. There have indeed been other occasions here over the past few weeks and days, and you have pointed this out to me, where we, from the majority and the government, have decided to take emergency measures by law for the sake of urgency. We've already done that, we do that sometimes, but I don't think it's necessary here. I prefer to distinguish between what one does with a royal decision and what one does with legislation. This really is something that one normally does by royal decision. We do not really disagree here, except in the practical conclusion that I will not support your amendment in this respect. Employers find all the information at the RSZ and therefore feel sufficiently certain that this important target group discount will be there. Mrs Samyn, I will answer in one sentence, because we have already had this debate in committee. I am in favour of a European social union, but it does not replace our own social policy. That's not what I'm here for. A European social union supports the policies of the Member States and allows for diversity and difference, but in supporting it we do need certain European social initiatives and we need to align certain issues in terms of support framework, minimum conditions. Of course, the Belgian social system must not be replaced by a social system which is adapted to the development of a country such as Poland. We should not trade in our health care for Dutch health care. They both have their weaknesses and their strengths, but also their own history and culture behind them, which is our own. You should not misunderstand me, but I am in favour of a European social union, in which Europe supports the social policies of the Member States. We have already had some opportunity to have that debate in committee and I hope that we will be able to come back to that at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, with regard to social integration and the fight against poverty, as the Minister of Labour repeated, we have committed ourselves, and we have indeed done, to increasing all the lowest social benefits, replacement allowances and GRAPA. It was legitimate and totally fundamental and indispensable. I don't think we can go back to that decision. Some think that's not enough. I heard it. Except we did! Others haven't done anything yet! With regard to the individualization of rights, it is true that we have set a small foot in the door, since, with the "price of love", there is finally an individualization of rights for people with disabilities. It is true that the government agreement does not provide for the individualisation of full rights. I'm sorry. I'm a feminist. I'm sorry. I believe that we absolutely must plead for this. But in any case, we will try to work on it, I will try to work on it, in particular by reflecting on the new modes of intergenerational or intergenerational cohabitation. It is not necessary to punish people who choose a mode of cohabitation in order to remain independent and to remain at home. Another concern, which all studies show, and you've talked about it, is the non-use of rights. The administration has been working on this for many months. We want to work on the automation of rights. There is evidence that there are indeed thousands of people in Belgium who have rights and do not have recourse to them. From the moment a law or a constitution gives a right, it is up to the State to guarantee that right. We will work in this framework. To do this, CPAS is obviously the cornerstone of the entire residual system. We know the workload of CPAS, especially large CPAS. That is why not only does Budget 2021 provide for new means for CPAS, but you will see that with the Task Force I will also find new ways to hire people. Because if the social workers no longer know how to manage the files, this means that the beneficiary is no longer entitled to his or her allowance or supplementary assistance. This is not acceptable, especially in this period of crisis. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying that the fight against poverty requires not only the CPAS and social benefits, but also a comprehensive plan to combat poverty. Of course, I am counting on all my colleagues in the government to fight poverty in a sustainable and structural way. In this capacity, together with the Prime Minister, we have already decided to hold a Council of Ministers on this fundamental theme. Of course, I would like to work in a spirit of cooperation with the federated entities that are already doing a lot of work and have a plan to combat poverty. We must all act to ensure that today's poor children are no longer the poor adults of tomorrow. It is towards this objective that we must strive to achieve. Our society is rich enough to achieve this. With regard to persons with disabilities, in two months we have already made quite significant progress. I'm thinking about the price of love. As for the price of labour, if it has not yet entered into force, it is because we were still waiting for the opinion of the Higher Council of Persons with Disabilities to know how we were going to allocate the budget. The government is working on it for the time being. I am also thinking of the increase in replacement allowances, as well as the reduction at the age of 18 – instead of 21 – of the possibility of receiving a disability allowance. These advances are significant. Is our society inclusive of the disabled? No, she's not! No more interdepartmental conferences were held on this subject. That is why I intend to reunite one again. Similarly, I intend to coordinate cross-cutting policies with my colleagues with a view to achieving a more inclusive society, particularly as regards work. We know our mediocrity in applying these themes within the public service, but also with the social partners. In comparison with the private sector, we do not stand for much better in terms of the professional inclusion of people with disabilities. You have also recently been able to discuss with Minister Clarinval the creation of his own job by the disabled person, who can become self-employed by reducing the burden. We'll work on it together. I'm going to the pensions. For starters, I'd like us to change our paradigm completely. I'm a little tired of presenting retirees only as a cost to our society. That's what I've heard in front of me and it's up to me to many teachers: "Retired persons represent such a percentage of GDP". What contempt for a third of the population, who worked and contributed for their pension! One third of the population who today lives longer, and that's so much better! One third of the population, if it has a decent pension, will consume and register, as the National Bank has said, as part of a recovery in growth. If we consider one third of the population a weight and a cost, we will go towards a decline. I would like at some point, when we think of pensions and pension reforms, to think not only of sustainability, but also of how much these people do for our society and our economy, because they will still consume for 20 years and I hope they will be healthy. That's our wish. I want to bet on the silver economy and we'll work on it. Let us also stop discovering pension figures! Today, will we find out that there was a post-war baby boom? We know that there will be an increase in the number of pensioners in 2030 and 2040, and that this figure will decrease, given the current demographics. It's not a discovery. Working groups have also worked on this issue and it is not the Minister of Health who is going to learn this from. Today we are not going to be surprised at the cost of pensions in relation to GDP. Of course, the government has decided to release $1.8 billion so that pensioners and those with the lowest pensions can live more dignifiedly. This decision is contested by employers and has been challenged in committee. I hope that no one in this House will tell me that, for a retired person who has worked for 45 years, a pension of EUR 1,500 is too high to be able to live somewhat dignifiedly for the rest of his life. I hope no one disputes this because it would be unworthy to do so. This person has contributed his whole life. I can guarantee today that these increases will take place until 2024. This is 22% until 2024 with indexing and the wellness envelope. This has been guaranteed in the framework of royal decrees and the programme law. That $1.8 billion will go well to our pensioners. It's important. It is true that we are not going to receive the pension age. I said it in committee and I repeat it here in conjunction with the Minister of Labour: we are counting on career ends and hard jobs. The aim is also that people arriving at the pension – even though some will work up to 67 years and others even longer while participating in the pension solidarity system (the 1st pillar) and others will leave earlier – will not get there in a state of physical or psychological suffering. Because we're going to work on career ends. Indeed, the reform of pensions will take place with the reform of career ends. There is one thing that we will restore directly, something that the Minister of Pensions had cancelled: the pension bonus. For the employment rate of our seniors to be better, the pension bonus will be a considerable asset. On the other hand, we will give up other things such as point pension. We will no longer work on this system. Like the Minister of Labour and the whole government, which will not surprise you, I believe in social consultation. Will it be simple? No! This will not be so, but we must do everything we can to ensure that employers and workers' representatives are able to produce a pension reform that is balanced with the government's benchmarks. I am a willing and enthusiastic woman and I hope we can do it. There are not three Ministers of Pensions. Besides, I'm alone here to talk about it. And Franck Vandenbroucke is not the Minister of Pensions, unless he says the other way around. Will I work with other government ministers, including David Clarinval and Petra De Sutter? Yes! Because we have the public service on the one hand and the independents on the other. We will work hand in hand because of course we are moving towards convergence of different regimes. We will work on the three pillars. So we will work together, but the Minister of Pensions is me! Finally, don't count on me for ad effects! What I hope is that tomorrow confidence will be restored in our pension system, both for our seniors, so that they are no longer afraid, only for all workers and young people, so that they too, tomorrow, believe in a dignified pension and want to contribute to the system of solidarity that is our first pillar of the pension system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u53	Madam President, many of my questions on labour market policy have already been answered by the Minister for Employment. I'm really glad he's joining us again. The objective of increasing the effectiveness rate to 80% by 2030 is extremely important. Flanders has set itself the same objective, although in a short period of time. However, Minister, it continues to look for your concrete measures to increase the level of activity. Nor does the Court of Auditors find them either. They were particularly critical of the figures presented in the budget as a return on an increased level of effectiveness. The Court of Auditors stated that this is at most an intention of the government to realize this but that the coffee floor is watching about how and when this will happen. The only concrete measure you mentioned in your reply is an annual conference on employment. It can be very valuable in itself, but it will not suffice. You have also announced your intention to cooperate with the Länder. I think that is very positive and, above all, the possibility of working with an asymmetrical policy is extremely important to me. All Länder would benefit from this but there is an explicit demand from Flanders to make the system of temporary unemployment much more activating. I have asked you about this before, but unfortunately I have not even heard your intention to do so. I am very sorry about this and can therefore repeat my call for this temporary unemployment to be more active. In this way, employers and employees can be given the opportunity to continue their work with a view to preparing for the future in times of high turnover losses. This should preferably be done in cooperation with the Länder and in the workplace, including employers and employees. I think that is extremely important and I repeat my appeal here. Raising the lowest benefits is something that the Swedish Government has also done. At the same time, however, the Swedish Government has also taken measures to avoid an inactivity trap, which the purple-green government fails to do. I specifically asked you what initiatives you will take to avoid that inactivity trap. After all, if one-sided benefits such as unemployment benefit are substantially increased, working will not be more profitable than not working. On the contrary, work is much less rewarding than not working. The difference is getting smaller. What concrete measures will you take to avoid these inactivity traps? That's a well-kept secret so far. This is one of the worst effects of one-sided increases in a number of benefits while your ambition is to increase the level of effectiveness. Measures generating inactivity traps would be counterproductive. The only concrete measures in the policy statement and which are partly translated into the budget are measures that can strengthen inactivity. I referred to the one-sided increase in benefits without any measures to prevent an inactivity trap. An additional EUR 75 million will be allocated to the artist's statute. With more benefits, we do not make people more active. We agree on that, unless I contradict you. That is a debate we must have. Raising birth leave from 10 to 20 days doesn't help anything. Temporary unemployment has increased several times in recent months. I do not want to ignore the needs of families, but we must also take into account possible inactivity traps. Moreover, this is still about insurance. A premium must be paid for that insurance. At the same time, the compensation or benefit that people receive must be in a certain proportion to the income lost. It is not possible to increase the benefit alone without accompanying measures against inactivity falls and to prevent the temporary unemployment scheme from being activated by giving opportunities, by encouraging it and by providing additional conditions to ensure that it is possible to work on retraining, retraining and retraining in the workplace together with the employer on new concepts to prepare the future post-corona. There are enormous opportunities to use this temporary unemployment far more forward-looking than is happening today. I have also referred to temporary unemployment as a right, without necessarily having a real need for it. Then the inactivity is promoted, instead of the activity. So I am still hungry and very concerned, because I have not actually heard about what measures you want to take to strengthen the activating nature of some insurance systems in our social security system and to avoid inactivity traps. Another concrete measure that can be taken is, of course, the target discount for the first employee. We agree that this target group discount should be there, so we should not discuss it anymore. We have never really had a discussion about this either. You say there's a KB signed and it's been sent to the Council of State. You hope to be able to publish that halfway through January. Legal certainty is extremely important in this and there is a big difference between the website of the RSZ and a publication in the Belgian Official Journal. There is no discussion about this either. I think it is extremely important that the amendments we have tabled to regulate this by law should be approved. In committee, they were voted down by the purple-green majority, but I retabled them in plenary today, because I think it is very important that there is 100% security for the employer from 1 January. Otherwise, a number of recruitments will be postponed or may not even go ahead, and that is certainly detrimental to the level of activity that is so dear to us and to you. The fact that we now regulate this by law is not really a problem, Minister. Our amendment does not prevent you from dealing with it in the future with an RB. Our amendment provides that the provisions of KB may be amended or deleted. You have the free hand there. The only thing we want to do is to set a very low standard of 100 % legal certainty as of 1 January and then you can get back to work with KBs to adjust it, if necessary after an evaluation in 2021. After all, we both think it is important to look at its effectiveness in 2021, especially in our efforts to provide sufficient support. One of the pains of certain corona support measures is that they are not fine enough, so we also consider that evaluation to be important. There is nothing to prevent you from approving our amendments today, so that employers, start-ups, small businesses and self-employed people will be able to recruit people with confidence from 1 January. After all, the website of the RSZ does not provide legal certainty. This again expresses, as the Court of Auditors points out on a number of other matters, a government's intention as far as I am concerned, but with good intentions one does not buy much. Legal certainty is needed to ensure employment. That is why I call for our amendments to be adopted by law as from 1 January. Then you have the hands completely free to adjust wherever you want. As far as the proceeds of social fraud are concerned, I asked what share of the EUR 2.3 billion additional revenue from the fight against social and fiscal fraud comes out of the fight against social fraud. It has remained deafeningly silent on government banks. I understand that too, because it is indicative of what the Court of Auditors says and what we have said on previous occasions, namely that it is only fine words. There is no concrete measure to effectively strengthen this struggle. With the continuation of what is already there, you will of course not make the difference. There will therefore need to be new measures. I shall also come back to the financing of our social security. I have indeed put a lot of questions to Minister Vandenbroucke because social security is very dear to us. In 2018, more than 61 percent of the funding was made up of labour contributions. For next year, that share is projected at 55%. The Court of Auditors says it's probably gonna be a little less. That's what worries us. Actually, it's about insurance. It is therefore necessary to pay contributions. However, if these contributions are less and less to cover benefits, the sustainability of the financing of social security will be compromised. It is therefore extremely important that the share of premiums covering insurance risks remains sufficiently high. For us, it has to be even higher, not by making premiums more expensive, but by ensuring that there is a higher level of activity and that more people pay the premium, and not less, as the budget suggests, unless you would surprise us now by saying that the sharp decline in the share of social assistance is due to a substantial reduction in labour costs, which would be welcomed on our banks' applause. However, I have not heard anything about this. So there is a problem there. For sustainable social security funding, you can only ensure that the share of alternative funding is contained and that it is not growing as rapidly and strongly as foreseen for 2021. Finally, I have one very clear and simple question. It is the current government's ambition to increase the efficiency rate to 80% by 2030. In fact, we know what the current government thinks of the criterion on which the next government should be dealt with, which is interesting in itself. I would really like to know what target we can meet the current government. After all, I assume that 80% does not just fall out of the sky and that you have a growth path in mind somewhere. What is the target for efficacy by 2024? After all, it is not serious to set a target for the next government alone and not to impose targets on yourself. I can't believe you didn't set yourself a target. So I would very much like to know what that target is and what level of effectiveness you want to achieve in Belgium by 2024.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u54	Madam President, Minister, ambitions are good, but empty promises will not help anyone. I sincerely believe that you have good intentions. You will propose a global poverty plan to your colleagues in the federal government to seek sustainable and structural solutions to the underestimated problem. As I said in my speech, poverty is often not visible. There's also a big taboo on it. Can I insist on legislation on the abolition of the price of love? I repeat that we are very much in favour of correcting this discrimination sooner than later. However, you cannot announce anything and then not come to final legislation on the proposed date. Especially in today's uncertain times it could have been a very nice Christmas present for those involved. People with disabilities are waiting for an initiative from you, but not just them. People in social distress are also waiting for a bright spot in today's dark days. Minister, you have now responded more nuancedly and even less europhile than you did during the committee. I look forward to the debates on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will be brief, as many themes have already been addressed. We will certainly still have the opportunity, in the coming weeks and months, to continue these debates in committee. So I will focus on a few points. First of all, I would like to say that you will obviously find us at your side when it comes to dealing with all those who argue that emergency measures are necessary but continue to criticize them. We will support you in extending the emergency measures you have taken. We will also support you in the face of those who criticize people who perceive "covid unemployment" and who say that indirectly, you want to limit them to inactivity. This thesis is also refuted. But we also go further because, as much as our social security supports workers through this solidarity that we are going to have to keep, there is a paradox as to purchasing power. It can be seen that in the major sectors where social cooperation exists and where trade unions are strong, there is even a complement that makes it almost 100 per cent. But all sectors where there is not this balance of forces remain at 70% and, unfortunately, these are the sectors with the lowest wages. If we do the calculation, 70% of a salary of 1,200 euros, that gives about 850 euros. With this amount, it is very difficult to live, especially when you are a single woman with dependent children, and you quickly fall into poverty. What we also want to support and which is part of your process, Minister, is to see the fight against poverty integrated into something much larger than just the direct measures that are needed. In this regard, I will not speak for Christine Mahy, who explains very well how to fight poverty. With regard to women, she maintained that those living on a pension below the poverty line were often women who had been poor all their lives because they had had a small wage. So the snake bites its tail. It is therefore necessary to tackle the question of saving or even creating jobs with real contracts and decent wages. That's what we have to do. Minister Dermagne said that in this crisis situation it is not always obvious to discuss employment, but at the same time, Mr Dermagne, it is not the crisis for everyone. If your will is to find balance and you believe in it, you will at some point have to make your political choices and really go get the money where it is. I'll give you a few measurements. This is first of all a request from the trade unions for aid granted to employers so as not to have to lay off. They ask that these aids be much more targeted because there are employers who do not need them, unlike the small self-employed. The best jobs created are those you don't lose. Another measure is therefore also to consider introducing a moratorium on redundancies. This exists in other European countries. Why should we be lagging behind in this? Finally, on the jobs created, yes, for us the safest jobs are the jobs created in the public sector. It's not that we don't need it. This pandemic and the austerity applied by previous governments in health care have meant that we have been, and still are, at the limit of hospital capacity. This does not date from the pandemic, but it has worsened the situation. The creation of public jobs is also our vision for recovery. We regret the cuts envisaged in the public services. You haven't yet said how you're going to do it to realize these savings. Finally, Minister Vandenbroucke, you talked about social security. You said that alternative financing via VAT was not enough to achieve this, but at the same time you did not give your lead to ensure that, in the financing of social security, everything that is social contributions remains an important part of the financing. We reject all those who plead for a reduction in the so-called workloads. For us, what some call the workload on work is our indirect salary and that's the one we have to save. You have not yet been heard about how you see all this in the longer term. Here too, I think we will have an opportunity to come back to it because the debates will be important. You will have understood that you can count on us to continue these debates in the committees. We will come with concrete and constructive proposals. It will be a pleasure to be a bridge between all the demands of the social organisations and especially of the trade unions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u56	Madam President, Madam Minister, I would like to correct something. You have more or less made it appear that I have reduced a retired person to pure costs. I want to make it clear that this is absolutely wrong. Pensioners are the people who brought us into the world, raised us, worked hard, let us study and made sure that we have a job. Of course, I started with that. Everyone is entitled to a decent pension. The reason why I have just gone into the dossier in a rather detailed way is precisely because we attach great importance to pensioners at N-VA. But today we are discussing the budget and we are talking about costs. Well, in order to keep the pensions of the people who cared for us affordable, we need to look at the cost. I did not say anywhere that these people should suddenly be reduced or that they are a pure cost to society. Let's straighten that out. Otherwise, if you stick to that idea, we will no longer provide constructive support if you want to solve the pension problem. I've just looked deep into your eyes. They were a little tired, I know. I'm looking you in the eye now, too. Again, we do not see pensioners at all as pure costs. That is my first point. Secondly, you do have ambitious plans. The major pension reform must be in place by September, and you will contact the social partners. I told you, I have nothing against that. That's even normal. However, nine months, of which only three can be worked with the figures, is very short, unless we already have an agreement between ourselves, which only needs to be worked out. Madam Minister, the pension reform plan will only be implemented if Mr Dermagne has done his job and increased the level of effectiveness. Maybe I can give you some advice on the matter. You say that you will pay attention to the points I raised in the reform, but I did not read them in your policy paper. But you must also work with your colleague, because you will have to motivate the inactive to get them to work. Too much work on the pension won't solve the problem. You need to get more people to work longer. If I may give you a tip, make sure that those who are still inactive get to work in the private sector, because then the net revenue for the Treasury is greatest. In particular, if you provide subsidised jobs, your policy will be negative, rather than negative, in budgetary terms. I have some tips, but I'll give them to you over the next few weeks and months. I look forward to the plan, even though I think it is a missed opportunity for you to separate the adjustment of minimum pensions from the major reform. You are already spending money that is not there, and that will put a mortgage on the pension reform. Anyway, I can't expect you to follow my vision completely. After all, we still have to be able to discuss it. In any case, I wish you every success, in the interest of the retired fellow man.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u57	I would like to make a few final remarks, since the government apparently has no intention of answering my questions in an earlier discussion. The rather stoic attitude of the government merely confirms my position. Anyway, I'm gonna give you some tips. Minister Dermagne, you chose not to answer my specific questions in the second round either. Firstly, if you want the rate of activity to be 80% by 2030, then you and the government must set a concrete target. You don't do that, and that's very bad. In addition, if you set the bar anywhere, put it just outside your reach, but within your sight. Then you have a target, an ambitious target. So make the increase in the level of effectiveness a concrete goal of. Secondly, make unemployment insurance and temporary unemployment insurance more activating by strengthening degressivity. Also consider limiting benefits over time. You assume that this is contrary to our Constitution. Let us certainly have a thorough debate on this. Thirdly, recovery also includes the principle of insurance of our social security. Ensure that adequate premiums are paid and do not rely increasingly on alternative sources of funding. If there is to be aid measures, make sure that they are fine-measuring and targeted and that they can be controlled. Then check it effectively. Fourthly, try not only to detect fraud, but also to prevent it. You can do this in two ways: by designing your support measures and by making very thorough work of data mining. That technology exists today. Many institutions have done so with great success. We must stop following the facts. Finally, ensure an entrepreneurial environment. You always follow the example of the zone zéro chômeurs in connection with the asymmetric labour market policy that you can pursue. But this is about subsidised jobs. In Flanders we prefer to do the opposite. Instead of leading jobs to people, fake jobs actually, we try to lead people to real jobs, in the private sector. This is the most sustainable way of maintaining and maintaining our social security systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u58	Thank you, Mr Anseuw.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u59	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the health budget is concerned, you will not be surprised, but I would like to start with the budget for vaccines. We have just had a discussion on this and I have tabled an amendment on the covid vaccine. I'd like to go over the structure of this file with you. The Court of Auditors' report and comments on the 2021 budget explicitly state that a number of additional expenditure has not been taken into account, such as specific measures for vulnerable groups, the cost of vaccination and the costs of antigen testing. The Court of Auditors therefore clearly states that the government has not allocated any money to the vaccines. That is why we have tabled an amendment, but we had a number of discussions in the Committee on Health and the Committee on Finance prior to that amendment. When discussing the policy paper to Minister Vandenbroucke, I asked whether the purchase of the covid vaccine and its roll-out were planned in the budget. He made it quite clear, and you can read that in the report, that they were not included, but he reassures me: there will be money. I pointed out to him that EUR 700 million was allocated in the Netherlands for the purchase of vaccines and EUR 1 billion for the roll-out of vaccination. After that, we'll discuss this a few more times. My colleague, Mr Loones, also brings this to the Committee on Budgets. In the Committee on Budgets, the Secretary of State states, and you can read this in the report, that vaccination and antigen tests have not been included in the budget. She does refer to PCR tests at a later committee meeting. This night, too, she referred to this, namely that EUR 294 million has been earmarked for PCR tests. There is a difference between PCR tests and antigen tests. At first, 500 000 antigen tests were ordered and, second, 5 million. We have all voted this week on the law on antigen testing. We're gonna need those 5 million tests. The budget for this, of course, too. Each committee makes it clear that there is no budget in the covid vaccines and antigen tests budget. We are therefore tabling an amendment of EUR 370 million. We estimate that this will initially be the deficit. If you take this into account, you will see that this is also true, even taking into account the remaining budgets for 2020. We are therefore surprised that the government does not accept our outstretched hand. It also worries us a little bit. Actually, it's not that transparent in this way. Actually, it tends to chipoter. The discussion was again last night. Minister Vandebroucke has just said that the Secretary of State for the Budget has explained the budget in detail. I invite you all to look into this fine explanatory statement in the report. Because it's not very nice. Indeed, EUR 500 million of commission is being discussed. But does that commission serve the hospitals or the vaccines? At the end of the speech, the Secretary of State made it very clear that a second wave had not yet been really taken into account and that, when finances are needed, they will be allocated after budgetary control. The colleague of the PS also indicated last night that he can perfectly submit a law to ensure that the necessary finances are provided. I then replicated that in the month he needed to do so, with 2,000 covid cases a day, 60,000 corona cases matter. If I am a little concerned about this budget, it is based on the figures and facts that we have received as a Member of Parliament. Then it is also our job as a Member of Parliament to control the government over that budget. If this were the only incident in this entire budget for Health that we are concerned about, it would be very serious. However, as I said in the discussion of the policy paper, there are a number of issues that we are concerned about. For example, EUR 100 million is entered on the revenue side, which we recently approved in committee. I had to note, however, that the coalition partners were not so confident that the EUR 100 million was suddenly entered in the budget on the revenue side, without any savings measures and without these measures being discussed with the sector. The budget orthodoxy of purple-green is not what we expect. That EUR 100 million is actually falling out of the sky. Whatever is not included in the budget, you can also read this in all the reports and it has also been confirmed that the IFIC beremas have been knocked off. The first agreement has indeed been included, but we do not find the remaining EUR 250 million when the social agreement is implemented. When discussing the policy paper, I asked the clear question whether the government would not have the ambition to work out that social agreement effectively and to formulate structural measures for care. Our people working in the healthcare sector are asking very much about these structural measures. I also pointed that out last night. We found it very difficult that we had to work once, but people who work in care often have shifts of 24, sometimes 36 hours. Go talk to newly graduated doctors or doctors who are in specialist training. I am sure my colleague Frieda Gijbels will still refer to it. These are all people who sometimes have to go to extremes. Our group therefore fully supports these people. When an agreement is concluded, the best way to achieve this is to provide a budget. Last night we also had a meeting with the two ministers for institutional reform, Minister Clarinval and Minister Verlinden. I have also come back to them on the dossier we are discussing here, that of public health. I have already asked Minister Vandenbroucke a few times what steps will be taken to regionalise care. He has always referred me to Minister Verlinden and Minister Clarinval. Last night, ladies and gentlemen, it became very clear to me that nothing will happen in that area in this legislature. However, we hear very clearly from all those working in health care, and also from the Covid Committee, that the fragmentation of powers was a killing factor in the corona crisis. However, nothing will be done about this. One will talk, analyse and debate, with a platform here and a platform there, but there will be no concrete implementation of the regionalisation of care. So when we evaluate the second and third wave, we will still be dragging that institutional lasagna. In the special covid committee, for example, we have discovered that when the Supreme Council of Medicine formulates an opinion that only goes to the federal cabinet. It therefore depends on the transparency of the federal cabinet whether or not that information on health care is being passed on to a state authority. How can we tackle a crisis so well? I can't explain that, and I don't suppose you can do this either. We've all felt it's 5 to 12. Further regionalising care and working on homogeneous competences, with care tailored and close to the patient, is what our citizens and care providers now need and what is expected of us. We need to get out of this impasse. The vaccination is also a very good example of how difficult it is to continue working in this situation. Unfortunately, I have heard this night that nothing will actually be done about it. However, there are still parties who continue to claim that they are in favour of regionalisation of care. I do not know how the talks are going on within the government, but I note that one party wants to regionalise while another government party submits a bill which de facto means a refederalisation. So that's a mystery to me. However, it is crystal clear that nothing will happen. You have no ambition to address the consultation structures and the different bodies you are asking for advice from and to improve the flow of information. You have no ambition whatsoever to tackle the fact that we have made world-famous, namely that a country with 11 million inhabitants has 9 health ministers, and to ensure that care can really be organised in a simple way, tailored to the patient. As I said at the time of the discussion, I am missing in the note the person who should be at the centre of all that note, namely the patient. The patient's involvement. The patient at the heart of his own health record. In one place you talk about that patient and the health literacy. One sentence. However, the health literacy and the inclusion of the patient in his file is extremely important. What is the most important thing when we talk about the covid crisis and the measures? That people understand them and follow them. The same applies to your health record: you know what to expect of you and what to work on. Among the most difficult to reach group, the socially vulnerable, you are talking about intercultural differences. I don't see a lot of extra budget going there. It strikes me that you do not link the actions you are taking, which are undoubtedly good, to the global medical record. Just with those people who work best on health literacy to give them a better path, we have less global medical records. I also find the accessible care a special part. We have already discussed this in committee. The Minister said that steps will be taken in terms of accessibility, but that is rather vague. What is also vague about it is that it only takes into account families who have a very low income, but not the working poor. However, I think it is very important that people who contribute to society are not at risk of poverty when they are ill. From a purple-green government, I expected there to be more commitment to that social actor. Then I'll join the pharmacists. In your policy paper, you clearly state that you will work on a multi-annual framework. You've missed your entrance quite a bit. This week has gone very badly wrong. One of the first decisions you made was a ban on pharmacists selling antigen tests to, for example, doctors and home-care centers, their customers of all time. You just decided that, without any scientific basis. I say it again: a pharmacist can expect a drone over his head on Christmas Day, as well as a raid by a health inspector, who you have specifically recruited to check that there are no tests being sold where you do not want it. Nor have you had any consultations with the pharmacists. If you want to create a new multi-annual calendar, if you want a constructive meeting with pharmacists to work out a long-term vision, then it is important that you consult with them. You have talked to the pharmacists for more than ten minutes, and none of your cabinet. There has been no consultation, but you indicate in your policy paper that you will be working on a new multi-annual calendar. I can only hope that there will be compliance, medication monitoring, pharmacovigilance and that the pharmacists will really be able to perform the function for which they have been trained. I also miss in the note the pharmacodynamic guidelines, which are very important for the budget. There is no mention of this, but if we want to control the pharmaceutical budget, then I think it is essential that we look at how much a particular medicine costs and how much health benefits it brings, but I miss that in the note. Apparently, that is not the ambition of this government. What is the ambition is to act in prevention. You are clearly going to take preventive and targeted action, in consultation with the Länder, you say. We are talking about the budget: you all know that prevention pays back cash, both in euros and in patients' health gains. If you do consult with the regions, I suggest that you forward the profits of prevention to the regions. You're getting a little off the hook by taking over powers. Therefore, it is better to ensure that those regions that are genuinely committed to prevention are able to benefit from it, so that those regions can grant them or give them to their patients. You're gonna save money on medication policy. You have subscribed EUR 100 million without linking actions. We will then see what those actions will be and whether you can effectively conclude a pact with the pharmaceutical sector. For example, I do not read about prescribing on dust name or the right of substitution. The right of substitution in the context of inaccessibility was approved, but I have still not seen the royal decision on this matter. If we talk about the money, we can also save money and there is a clear Community difference. Perhaps this can also be discussed with the Länder and a certain degree of accountability can be registered, so that when the measures are taken they will provide money to the patients of the doctors who have made the effort. You are talking about transparency and you will address Article 111. That's very good, I'm definitely your partner in that. For innovation and medicine policy, you will focus more on European cooperation. That's where the shoe wrings. I do not know how you will link transparency to this European cooperation. The contracts for the purchase of the covid vaccines are classified. Parliament cannot control these contracts and we do not even know what agreements have been made. This afternoon, you said you can't determine Pfizer's timeline. However, it's about a million-dollar contract, which you even prefinance. Transparency in such contracts is therefore really important. For the future, I therefore call for transparency in the many contracts that you wish to conclude through the European Gremia. You refer to BeNeLuxA, which is absolutely a good initiative, but so far it has not been very successful, so a catch-up movement can be done there as well. With regard to orphan diseases, you are talking about the Fonds Rare Diseases and Orphan Medicinal Products. It is not clear to me what cooperation will mean. Our group is working very hard on it. It is essential for us to have a protocol per European reference so that the patients who come into contact with it or get the diagnosis and the doctors who make the diagnosis can follow that protocol perfectly. A growth path for reference centres is also essential. Maybe you can also think out of the box and have medicines for orphan diseases off-patent. All this needs a huge and thorough plan. We are today just a year after the fundraising for baby Pia. At that time, we all agreed here in Parliament that it was a very serious problem that parents had to fundraise to pay for a medicine. Now is the time to do something about it effectively. My group has tabled a motion for a resolution. I therefore invite you to go through it, approve it and work on it. My penultimate point is about mental health. You have taken steps in this area, which is absolutely positive. However, I have not yet seen the liaison psychiatrist mentioned in your plan. I would have liked some clarification on this. Nor do I have any clarification on the specific approach to mental health care in drug-addicted patients. That is, after all, a problem with rice. I haven't seen the clinical sexologists mentioned either. Maybe that'll come. Finally, I would like to refer to the Medical Accidents Fund. We have already had a number of discussions on this. You know that our group has tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter. You indicated that there would be an analysis before the end of November 2020. However, you indicated at that time that you needed a more thorough analysis. I agree with you that the work of the Medical Accidents Fund must be done thoroughly. It's gonna have to happen soon, because the victims are waiting. We really cannot afford to put that off.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u60	Minister, I repeat what I said in committee: you are really lucky. After years of cuts and cuts, this legislature does not reduce public health. Unfortunately, at first we needed a huge health crisis with more than 18,000 deaths and a care sector that is about to collapse. However, every disadvantage has its advantage. EUR 30 billion has been registered for public health. That's a huge amount of money. It's citizen's money and the citizen's money. There can be no discussion that the healthcare sector will get a large share of the budget. We have done this, among other things, together here in Parliament. Think of the budget for the white blouses coming through the social Maribel. There is certainly an urgent need for more hands on the bed. This is definitely what the corona crisis taught us. We therefore hope that the patience of the care providers will no longer be put to the test and that they will receive the well-deserved support as soon as possible. You said the outstanding promises will be fulfilled. It'd be a nice Christmas present if they got it this year. We've been moving this to New Year's. That too may be a little too soon. Minister, much promise and little giving makes the fools live in joy, is a West Flemish saying. The EUR 200 million for mental health is also a good start. In fact, this can be seen as a catch-up for years of neglect of the sector. Even that will be too little, however. This will certainly become clear when the need for psychological care as a result of the corona crisis and the accompanying measures become apparent. I hope that the growth of 2.5% is actually being pursued and that the needs of the population are being respected and that it is not just an amount or a percentage for windowdressing. I do not know whether I should comment on the estimated expenditure for the covid crisis. Those who do not yet know what this is about have not followed the entire debate. We have been discussing this from yesterday, but I would like to comment briefly on it. The Court of Auditors says that the estimates for 2021 for the specific benefits in kind only reflect the expected expenditure for the first trimester, without taking into account any additional expenditure. These include specific measures for vulnerable groups, the cost of vaccination and the costs of antigen testing. We insist that this gives a distorted image. Don't take it personally, but allow me to believe the Court of Auditors rather than you when it comes to funding. In the context of covid premiums, I would like to emphasise once again that the care providers have still not seen a red cent of the promised premiums. Moreover, these premiums are a cloth against bleeding as they are being skimmed again because of the fiscal hunger of father state. Of course, it's nice to be able to unpack with bonuses and bonuses, but this looks like a pocket-jacket operation. Another example is the promised EUR 20 per GMD for the general practitioners, which should be paid before 20 December. Today is 17 December, so it has to be paid today or tomorrow, as Saturday is not a banking day. If it isn't on the account today, Father will claim half the premium there again. So we're gonna have another pocket-jacket operation. With regard to the blood red figures of hospitals, the RIZIV estimates the cost of the lower activity rate between 960 million and 2.4 billion euros. However, you do not believe that this will lead to an overrun of the budget objective because the additional costs for COOVID-19 are offset by the lower costs for non-COOVID-19. There too, you disagree with the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors finds that questionable and the hospitals are also calling the alarm bell. As far as deferred care is concerned, you replied in committee that this is also often due to delay because of the patient himself who, unjustly or otherwise, fears the risk of infection. That's not surprising. Following the panic message in the media, one would be afraid of less. However, I think it is a little short-sighted that the people themselves should be pointed at. In order to improve the financial accessibility of our health care, you have indicated that an action plan has been drawn up and that a steering group has started working on it. During the discussion in committee, that steering committee had already met once for the further elaboration. Stakeholders would also be consulted in this context. Is that what happened in the meantime? This is an important aspect of your policy. I come to the savings of EUR 150 million in the pharmaceutical sector. If it weren't such an important file, it could be said that it's a symbol file. That sector spends every year without shame on its budget. These systematic exceedances in the pharmaceutical sector have not led to deficits, but this is only due to the other sectors that have remained below their budget. The budgets of the other healthcare sectors were thus re-used by the pharmaceutical sector. We therefore fear that these EUR 150 million savings will not be enough to keep the pharmaceutical sector within its budget. We are therefore calling for the sector to become more responsive. This can only be done by ensuring transparency of costs and prices, by regulating the sector and by developing other economic models for the pharmaceutical industry in the long term. Moreover, care must be taken at all times to ensure that our health care does not evolve to a health care me two speeds. As a socialist, Minister, you should certainly take that to heart. That is why, in our view, it is very important that fees and supplements are kept under control and commemorated together with the revision of hospital funding. However, from your answer in committee, I conclude that the approach to the wage supplements is not directly on the priority list. As I said, this is linked to hospital funding, which is indeed a huge blur. I have the impression you're holding off the boat there. If that is not the case, then you can try to convince me otherwise. The deconvention of some health care providers, especially gynecologists and dentists, can also lead to a two-speed healthcare system. Unfortunately, we do not see much of this in the budget, so we fear that little attention will be paid to this. This trend towards a two-speed healthcare system is even more worrying when it is known that the proportion of the patient's health expenditure in the Belgian health system is already higher by 24% today than in our neighbors. The inequalities in access to health care are among the highest in Western Europe. So, Minister, there is still a great deal to be done to achieve your objective of reducing health inequalities. I hope you will take this to heart. The answer to a written question shows once again the great difference between the regions. The problem of the wage supplement appears to be much greater in the south of the country than in the north. The reference amounts of hospitals are exceeded more often in Wallonia and Brussels than in Flanders. The focus on prevention and therefore on the first line is also much better developed and embedded in Flanders. I would therefore like to call once again for the seventh state reform to be carried out. It has been discussed many times in this long session and I am convinced that the basis for this is growing. With this state reform, we must at least ensure that uniform powers go to the Länder, not because this is what we want or what just comes out of the sky but in the interests of the citizen, both in Flanders and in Wallonia. Mr Minister, I would like to conclude with a comment by Mr Voka. During a congress, Voka said that €3.5 billion is wasted and/or badly spent on, among other things, double investigations, unnecessary interventions, lack of prevention and unnecessary administrative costs. With this in mind, you know what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u61	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on several occasions in the Committee on Health we have had the opportunity to discuss your policy paper in detail. I will not go back to every point, but I would like to highlight some of the points that I think are important and I still have a few questions and reservations. One of the major yards of your policy will most likely be the approach to hospital funding. The new large MAHA study, recently organised by Belfius, shows that there is a major problem with the financial health of hospitals. That analysis reports in 2019, so it doesn't even have anything to do with the covid crisis. Therefore, the financial problems of hospitals have been dragging on for a long time and have been known for many years. The covid crisis made it worse and makes intervention all the more important. It will not be enough simply to supplement the deficits created by the covid crisis in order to tackle the structural problems. The margins of the hospitals are thin and many hospitals have been losing for years. To reverse the tide, a thorough structural approach is needed. Many of your predecessors have tried that, but little progress has been made. Therefore, when reading your policy paper, our expectations were very high. We expected a new plan of action. However, we read that you will continue and, where necessary, adjust the reform of the hospital sector and the funding of hospitals, with which I quote you literally. We did not think that this definition was very ambitious. The problem is complex. Hospital funding is not transparent and very complicated. As this complexity also applied to your predecessors, we wonder what you will do to make it work this time and to come up with solutions and concrete results this time. One of the reasons why you say you will succeed is that the hospitals are now being better funded. However, a large part of the work will consist of convincing people, so you will have to come up with a very clear vision and a plan of action. The revision of the nomenclatures, the fees, the dampening of the fee supplements, the networking, the centralisation of the complex care, it is all mentioned in your policy paper, but those are the promises that were made in 2014. You will understand that we are a little suspicious if we do not now see a specific timeline or objectives. Where exactly do you want to get? What will you do first? When will we be able to see the results? It is important that there are differences in the financial health of hospitals. You minimized that recently in committee when I asked for it. You said that these differences are not so great, given the large turnover of the hospitals. Because of this thin margin, barely 0.48% of the current turnover result, these differences are indeed important. There is a big difference between a hospital that is loss-making and a hospital that is not, especially because a hospital with structural problems tries to cope with the shortages that exist as much as possible through matters such as pharmaceutical products, radiological examinations, fees and salary supplements. The hospitals with the greatest structural financial difficulties often resort to these high wage supplements. So it does have a major impact on the consumption of health care, because the current way of financing, even if only implicitly, drives for more consumption, creating a vicious circle that only makes health care more expensive and which is gradually making insurance priceless. We see these structural financial problems more often in hospitals in Wallonia and Brussels than in hospitals in Flanders. The highest pay supplements can be found in Brussels and Walloon hospitals. I am therefore very specific about how you will deal with the problem of pay supplements. If you reduce it, the gaps in funding will increase in the hospitals that apply the highest wage supplements. How are we going to solve this gap in funding? In particular, how are you going to ensure that not all hospitals are treated in the same way and that the hospitals that have made efforts to put their situation in order now should not pay for the hospitals that have not yet done so. In the absence of a specific timeline and objectives, we can only hope for the time being that you will do what you say, in particular radically implement what you are pragmatically announcing. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the medical specialists in training and the general practitioners in training. Mrs. Depoorter mentioned it as well. This is a problem that has become clearer in the covid crisis: it concerns students who actually combine training with work in a medical practice or a hospital environment. Now it has become quite clear how vulnerable they really are, how bad their social status is, how little has been done in the past. In committee, you promised me that you would see that problem and that you would deal with it. I will certainly follow that up, because I think it is a very important issue. You won't be surprised that I'm going into dental care as well. I said that I missed a plan to improve access to dental care, because that is a big and growing problem in our country. In Belgium, patients have to pay 60% of dental care expenses from their own pockets, whereas in the Netherlands and Germany, this is 22 and 25% respectively. The Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care recently published a report in which this problem was again clearly highlighted. More people are even delaying dental care for financial reasons. You promised me in committee that you would understand my point and make a start on it, but I do not find a budget or a timeline here either. So I'm waiting for a plan of action. When can we expect this and what are the objectives of this? The Federal Health Knowledge Centre is putting forward a solution to improve the affordability of dental care, but I would like to make a few comments. After all, it proposes introducing a compulsory third-payer scheme for dentists in order to improve accessibility. Such a scheme means that the patient only pays the brake fee for the treatment and that the rest of the amount is settled between the dentist and the sickness fund. The big problem with dental treatments is that there is no nomenclature for a very large part of dental treatments and there is therefore no refund. The introduction of a compulsory third-payer scheme will therefore not be effective, because it is not a matter of reimbursement, but it can be important for a patient, such as a tooth extraction or a periodontal treatment, a treatment for people with chronic gum infection. They are not refundable when one has reached a certain age. The first step should therefore be to revise the nomenclature adapted to current practice. I suggest that you consult widely on this matter with the various professional associations of dentists. As far as committee work is concerned, I will be very happy to cooperate constructively and to make progress. When working on a third party payment scheme, I think it is essential to ensure a transparent and clear invoice for the patient, which clearly shows what treatment was attested for what amount and what amount of it is on behalf of the community. The third-payer scheme is fraud-prone, and I think it is important to inform patients about the actual costs of treatment, but also about what the dentist has attested. As far as dental hygienists are concerned, for the bachelors in the care of the mouth, the new profession, you will have a budget so that a pilot project can be set up in which they can do refundable treatments. The dental hygienists have been awaiting a financial framework for many years. In Flanders, their training started about four years ago. The first dental hygienists now work for almost two years, but in a very unclear situation. In fact, that profession was set up to ensure that the threshold to dental care would be lowered and more could be put into preventive dental care. Leaving aside a financial framework for the care they provide, the threshold has only increased and can only be given care to the people who can pay it. What is your longer-term plan? You now provide a limited envelope, but of course more dental hygienists study every year. The budget therefore needs to evolve. What is your long-term view of this? I just hope it's not true what I hear in the corridors, especially that we have to wait for the first Walloon dental hygienists to graduate before a budget is foreseen. Another important issue is eHealth, and I really hope that there will be significant improvements in this legislature, simply because it is urgently needed. Too often investigations are repeated because the data are not interchangeable. For example, we're thinking of X-rays. This obviously has an impact on the health budget, but also on efficiency. The trend is increasingly paperless, but many health care providers still have to print certificates on out-of-the-box matrix printers, while a direct connection with insurance institutions cannot be so difficult and can lead to savings at different levels. The covid crisis has now shown that much can be done if it has to. I hope that this trend towards more electronic data exchange will be maintained, that care providers and healthcare institutions will be specifically encouraged and supported and that health insurance funds will also be motivated to participate in this. The problem is that developments with regard to eHealth have so far been extremely slow, so slow that the first steps that have been taken are in the meantime obsolete. It is therefore important to move quickly and, above all, to adopt a global approach so that the various systems can be linked and can talk to each other. You also indicated yourself that a great catch-up must be made. However, what I am missing here are concrete deadlines and concrete objectives to get care providers and healthcare institutions on the digital train as soon as possible. Moreover, it is my opinion that I was somewhat disappointed about the fact that eHealth deserves a more prominent place in a policy paper on health care of the future. I'd also like to say a few words about the defense. You may be surprised, but I was actually surprised that I did not find any reference to Defence in the entire document, although in the current pandemic by the Medical Component, very great efforts have been made in relation to hospital transport, logistics of protective equipment, assistance in residential care centres, training of staff in residential care centres and so on. In my view, much better and closer links should be maintained with Defence, even outside a pandemic period, for example in the form of a disaster centre. In such a centre the training for calamities can take place and the expertise can concentrate. It could be a nerve center in times of disaster with medical consequences. There can also be an interesting crosspollination in other areas, by exchanging expertise and synergies. The last specific point I would like to mention and that you have given a prominent place in your policy paper is the pandemic plan, which was not there during the current pandemic. However, this does not seem to include budgets and I do not find a timeline. In the Committee on Health, our group took the initiative to give a start and to draw up an initial version of such a plan. Although all the groups agreed that such a plan should be put in place and the majority parties had hardly any substantive objections to our motion for a resolution, they stated that it was unnecessary work, that the government would certainly take on this task and that the special committee should also make its recommendations. Therefore, although our resolution was not adopted, I would ask you to start with the first moves in this direction. After all, I believe that you also want to do something about it, but I would ask you not to wait. There are certainly things that can already be put in place. Things can then be improved and refined afterwards after the opinions of the special committee. That will certainly be the case. However, I hope that you will consult with your colleague from the Interior and with the Länder as soon as possible, so as to draw up at least an organisation chart and thus align the crisis approach. After all, the lack of clear responsibilities was now the biggest stumbling block. We do not know whether and when we are going to lose out in another covid wave, but we really need to be ready at that moment, and at that moment the responsibilities must also be crystal clear. Nor do we know when another epidemic will hit us. Above all, however, we must not bet that it will be for the next legislature. Finally, this is the moment to reform healthcare. We're in a huge health crisis. As a result, the weaknesses of our health system are now in focus in the spotlights. Everyone knows that something far-reaching must be done. You did not want to make any specific comments in committee on the regionalisation of health care. You referred to your colleagues who have the competence for state reform in their portfolio. However, this reform will be an essential element in order to move towards a coherent, sustainable and affordable health policy. So buttons will have to be cut quickly. What exactly will it be? It's not that obvious to us. However, we assume that it is crystal clear to you. Are you going for further regionalisation of health care? What proposals do you have in mind? Are the noses of your coalition partners all pointing in the same direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u62	Madam President, I will not repeat what we have already discussed usefully in the committee debate. Mrs Gijbels, you have highlighted a number of very important policy challenges, which are also guidelines for us. I fully agree with you on access to dental care. I have a feeling that we can go a long way together. I have also indicated that I consider the problem of dental hygienists to be important, but it was probably unsatisfactory for you, because I have put it in too general terms. As far as eHealth is concerned, I share your view that we in our country have some sort of catch-up or have a double major challenge. I agree. I therefore propose that I do not repeat what we have said together in committee. You regularly ask for more concrete deadlines, timelines and objectives. That is perfectly legitimate, but it is not always found in a policy paper. You will understand that, although the government has been working for more than two months now, I am a little less advanced than I would have liked on some of the issues relating to timelines and reform paths. We are very much working on COOVID-19. Your questions are very legitimate. I agree. With regard to state reform, you have heard me speak very carefully in committee. I will not repeat what I said there either, but I have good reasons to speak carefully about that. The coalition agreement says it's being explored. In the coalition agreement there is also a clear orientation on health care. There are indeed two colleagues who are specifically responsible for this and I do not want to cut them off. I believe that we will often have interesting discussions on a number of points because our principles here are not necessarily so different. Mrs Depoorter, I will repeat it again, but I suggest that we turn off the record afterwards. This night, at the request of your group colleague Sander Loones, the Secretary of State for the Budget explained in some detail how the money for the purchase of vaccines was 'provisioned'. So I don't see the issue anymore. It was a relevant question and it has been explained. The money is "provisioned" and the budgetary technique has been explained. I think it's a little weird, too. You combine an emphasis on the fact that we should fully regionalise and leave the regions in their responsibilities with a repeated and in the meantime somewhat outdated attack on the fact that we have not allocated money to vaccination. You do know who is responsible for vaccination in Flanders under normal circumstances? You know who would normally pay for that, don't you? The Flemish government. In these exceptional circumstances, the federal government pays 80% of the costs. You're welcome. That's not a gesture, it's a good deal because we're in a pandemic together. I find it a little strange that you say on the one hand that we should be careful to remain in our powers and on the other hand, where we work together with the Flemish government and take on 80% of the costs, constantly saying that we have not provided the money, even though we have done so. I hope you can take irony, but I find this ironic. I do not want to polemicize about this, because we have in this excellent cooperation with the Flemish Government and I have never heard from the Flemish Government that she was worried that we would not have 'provisioned' the money for that. That's really not the point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u63	Mr. Secretary, I'm just talking about facts. I have the report of the task force's consultation on vaccination. Last night I also presented this to your colleague Verlinden. That task force first came together several times to find out who is competent or not. So it hasn't been a choice between one or the other, it's just a fact. It's a pandemic phase. You must forgive me, but you speak now as if you will pay as a benevolent federal government. However, the task force clearly agreed that funding should be borne by the federal government. The current pandemic phase is simply a factual fact. It seems appropriate to me to discuss this honestly. It's about a deal made and it's a pandemic phase. I suggest that we put it for discussion, so that the powers are regionalized, and then you will see where you come from.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u64	Mrs Depoorter, I hope you will be able to withstand any irony, because I will say something ironic. I hope you'll be able to appreciate some humour after the long night meeting. You tell me I haven't talked to the pharmacists for ten minutes. I hope you will understand the humor of it when I tell you that, since we have been on the Health Committee together, I feel that I have been listening for hours to the apothecaries' desires. I've already listened to you for hours. I don't mind. I'm fine with it. My employees have also discussed with the Pharmacy Association for much more than ten minutes. That is, of course, necessary. Soon the law on rapid tests will be before us for discussion. Without reopening the debate on this issue, we have decided to distribute the first stage rapid tests in a closed circuit. You have a different opinion on this; that is legitimate. I will not repeat these arguments. However, I can tell you that 60% of the pharmacists told us that they are not ready for this now and in one breath I add that I do not blame the pharmacists. All these cases have been discussed. In that respect, I find it somewhat ironic that you claim that I am not listening to the pharmacists. I am listening to a pharmacist here and my staff also speak with pharmacists. However, I suggest that we do not start that debate again and again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u65	Minister, I am indeed a pharmacist.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u66	There's nothing wrong with that. It's interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u67	I don't get any trauma from this either, because I think it's a fantastic profession that I also want to defend from my skill. On the other hand, of course, I am not the Pharmacy Association, I am only at regular intervals with all healthcare professions. We now happen to be talking a lot about the pharmacy and the general practitioner, and it is a pleasure for you to listen to me. I'll remind you once in a while that's what you were up to. However, consultation with the rightful representatives of a profession is something other than consultation with a representative of the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u68	Minister, I will not interfere with the pharmacists, I will only get there if it is necessary to buy pills and perhaps soon for a vaccine. Firstly, with regard to the discussion with you and Mrs De Bleeker on the financing of vaccines, we can at least say that until yesterday there has been very blurred communication about this. The data didn't make it clear whether that money was there, and if it was there, where it was. One of the reasons for this is, of course, the excessive use of commissions in the budget. That leads to a lot of misunderstandings, not just in this dossier, by the way. I have the impression that the budgetary work was not really finished and that they have tried to cover it up under the great heading of commissions in all kinds of parts. I am not sure whether there was any clarity yesterday, but at least we have received more information. In the future, we will see if that data is consistent with the truth. We now find that Mrs De Bleeker has just removed a tweet and I assume that you are aware of that in the meantime. Ivan De Vadder, for example, wonders why that happened. In this tweet, she worked out the 279,120,190 euros for the 33,5 million vaccines already purchased or to be purchased this year. That's a very detailed list of the various suppliers. Why was that tweet removed? Was that too detailed? Is that information that shouldn't be made public? This is an informative question, and some will be waiting for clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u69	I can't speak in the name of other people about their tweets or announcements. You will have to ask Mrs De Bleeker your own question. In your first point, you are right. When majority and opposition or opposition and government have a discussion and information is provided, information has been provided. That is what I wanted to emphasise in the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u70	I understand you can't tell me why Mrs. De Bleeker removed a tweet. Let me rephrase my question. Moderna delivers at $18 apiece, for $2,064,000, including VAT. That's just a rule from the list. You know that file, of course. Would you make that public?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u71	I will not go into this further. I should discuss this with Mrs De Bleeker.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u72	I am not asking if Mrs De Bleeker can make that known. I'm asking you to do that. You do have this information, don't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u73	We do not have the habit of communicating in detail the contracts negotiated by the European Commission. We are also bound by the general principle of the European Commission. She doesn't communicate that in detail either. There is a lot of discussion about how transparent that is or is not. You know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u74	Can I make it clear that you think Mrs De Bleeker has been too transparent?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u75	I will not go into that because I think you should discuss it with Mrs De Bleeker.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u76	That is why I asked whether you would make the data you have available public or not. You said you wouldn't do that. I have the impression that Mrs De Bleeker has realised that she should not have either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u77	Madam President, Minister, I would like to come back briefly, really not comprehensively, to tonight's debate. I was angry then. First of all, it is true that additional information has been provided in the meantime. And that's good. Today, whether or not in tweets that are being removed, information is given that there is a budget for the purchase of those vaccines. I want to be very clear about that. That is a very good thing. That is just what our statements were about. We wanted to be absolutely sure that there was a budget to buy the corona vaccines. That's good. You say, Minister, that there is now clear evidence of this and that there is therefore no longer an issue. I'm terribly sorry, but there's still an issue, for three reasons. I'll start with the first reason. You yourself have extensive parliamentary experience, you know how Parliament works. We work very seriously. We work in committees. There are experts who give advice. Official reports shall be made of them. Ministers take positions and we believe them. That's exactly what happened in this file. Several statements have been made, including by Mrs De Bleeker, who actually said that those budgets for vaccines are not included in the budget. That is literally stated in the parliamentary report. We believe that. However, we saw last night that we are actually being condemned for believing the Secretary of State. She gave me a number of sneaks to make people restless and insecure in times of crisis and that this is unheard of, while I merely insisted on clarity in this dossier. That's what bothered me. Something is said one day and we believe that and the next day they say something else and then we are accused of changing the story. By the way, I gave the same message to the Prime Minister yesterday. I felt it coming back then. I then told Prime Minister Alexander De Croo that I can hope that the government will never blame the opposition for believing her. That's still an issue. In all honesty, I don't know what to believe anymore. So I come to the second reason why this is still a problem. We simply want transparency. We are in a crisis period, so many things are uncertain, and we need to give clarity and certainty, guaranteeing people that they will be okay. That is why we put so much emphasis on that corona budget, that budget for those vaccines. Not with a political show in a debate here in the Chamber, but for weeks. On the committee by colleague Depoorter. In the plenary sitting with regard to you. We've had the Court of Auditors' report. I did it myself with regard to the Secretary of State for the Budget. We've been working on it for weeks. We have been calling for this transparency for weeks and for the assurance that this budget is foreseen. Each time the answer came that this was not really necessary. We have made this concrete ourselves. We have tabled an amendment. That's something serious in a parliament. That is what we do, namely pass laws. We have proposed an amendment to ensure that there was certainly a budget for this. And the majority voted that out. That surprises me a bit, especially since there is now an explanation which I hope is correct, but I doubt it a little because these commissions were used this year, but above all for hospital funding. I have the impression that there are some shifts in the narrative now, but I hope this is not the case. That is what happens when ministers change their story and blame the opposition. The last and third points, as Mr Roover has also said, are basically everything. This budget is full of commissions. It is logical that this should be done in crisis periods for matters that are uncertain, but it is not logical that this should be done in cases that are certain. That's just the point the Court of Auditors is making. The Court of Auditors recalls that the use of interdepartmental commissions prevents a correct picture of the funds. It undermines budgetary speciality. It is claimed that transparency is not sufficient. This is quite a passage in the Court of Auditors' report in which it is said that there is no need to work with commissions for certain items. Minister, I know you as a very serious man involved in your files, you know what you are talking about. You sometimes have the impression that you're talking to pharmacists. We often have the impression that we are on the academy benches. That's because you take things seriously. I hope you will do the same in this regard. A temporary approach has now been found. It's a good thing those pennies are gonna be there for those vaccines. Really, I'm very glad they're here, but such a thing shouldn't be included in commissions. In fact, your government itself should have tabled an amendment in order to register transparently, in the correct budget line, enough budget to enable those vaccines to be purchased. That amendment is in fact there, because we have tabled it. Moreover, I believe that it is still the best way to include a specific budget for these vaccines in the budget. That would mean that the commissions that are still in there could be used for the items for which they are intended, in order to be able to slide with uncertain cases. The purchase of a vaccine should be a certain fact.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u78	Mr Loones, I think your point has been made. It's okay. It's okay. I think the minister got it, too. Three times is charm, I think I've heard it three times, but I'm already a little tired. This aside. I'd like to pour a little more oil on the fire. Minister, you are asking who should normally pay for the vaccines. Of course the Länder, in our case Flanders. With a big heart, you say the federal government is responsible for 80%. Okay, but who's the biggest payer on the federal echelon? Asking the question is answering them, I guess.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u79	Madam President, I shall only intervene briefly. The problem of commissions and the question of whether money is available for vaccines, I think it is a nuanced issue. I ask why we cannot have such a nuanced debate when cameras are running above and when it is being broadcast live. There was uncertainty about the commissions and whether there was a budget available. The Minister has been so honest in recognizing this to some extent. Indeed, there were pending questions, but they were answered last night. In the past 24 hours, a lot of correct information has been provided about the commissions and that they can be used to buy the vaccines. Mr De Roover has just said so. Then my question is why, four hours ago, an opposition group had to cast doubts and claim something else during the live broadcast of the plenary on TV. I don't understand that, and I'm gonna have to be explained. Everyone here walks on top of the toes when it comes to dealing with corona. We all want to win the battle against corona. Why not have the debate with more nuance, in a correct way, even when the cameras are running and not just now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u80	Madam President, I am also speaking in the wake of the remarks made at the moment by my colleague, Mr. From Vriendt. I think it's fundamental. This is an important debate, which is now conducted with serenity. We are talking about vaccine financing. We realize the impact this has on our fellow citizens. You just said you're not asking better for it to be well funded. I remember that. But actually, that night, I was there when the debate was lively between you and Secretary of State De Bleeker. You've read the committee report again. I didn't read it, but I believe you. Then the Secretary of State explained himself. You said it was clearer now and you recognized that it was funded. We can always talk the way we do, but we can't say that's not the case. A few minutes later, a video circulates on Twitter - from your account or from the N-VA party account, I don't know anymore. Tonight, there is confirmation that funding is being acquired. And at 2.30 p.m. today, your colleague Mrs Depoorter tells the minister that it is not funded. I think that is absolutely not correct! You know what the consequence is, Mr. Loones, Mrs. Depoorter? This morning, I had a morning interview, as happens to many of us, at 7:00 a.m. on a French-language medium. I had to talk about the budget. What is the second question that I am asked in this French-language media? "Come on, Mr. Vanden Burre, how come vaccines are not funded?" That is unacceptable, because we have answered the question! And you come here again at 2:30 p.m. to tell us: "False, it's not funded!" I think this debate is important, really. But please, don't create panic in the population. This game isn't worth it. Indeed, we must manage together to go through this crisis. But not like that, please. Not like that!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u81	Mr Vandenbroucke, may I briefly say a few things, because I can see that you are getting a little more angry. You're in a bit of a situation I was in last night. Firstly, it is really very bad that you received this second question this morning, because we have been working on it for weeks. We have tabled amendments, so you cannot blame us for playing games. The file is built up, so there will be amendments, but you voted them away. The problem is a little underrated. At some point someone panicked and said that it was serious and that there should be another solution for the pennies. There's a solution. I take the Secretary of State's word for it and hope it will be effective. Saying that's a surprise and blaming us is just not fair. We've done our job, we've been doing it for weeks. You'll shoot in action later, but you can't blame us for that. Secondly, I did not have the debate in the middle of the night. I had the debate yesterday morning at 10 a.m. That's when I made my speech. I am terribly sorry, but it is not my responsibility at that time to reply only to the Prime Minister, and that the government itself decides not to let Secretary of State De Bleeker speak. The President explicitly asked whether the other members of the government wanted to replicate in the first round, but the Prime Minister himself gave the signal at that time................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I was sorry to hear that, because at that time Mr De Vriendt was right to say that the cameras were running, so if Mrs De Bleeker had made that point, we would have had that information immediately. Mrs De Bleeker did not give me that information, by the way. She knows that we have been working on this for weeks, but she has not come to me to say that there is a solution, that she knows how it would be handled and that we, as adults, could talk about it. She didn't say anything about it, she saved up her answer for when she was talking about it, and you can't blame me for that either, in the middle of the night. You can't blame me for her doing that. I would like to take up your question, Mr De Vriendt, as to why we are still asking that question in plenary. You yourself say that there must be an opportunity to respond to the public forum. You'll have a chance to make public statements... [[Tumult]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u82	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u83	That the government itself withholds information, that it does not deliver it to Parliament, that it changes its narrative and that it decides not to do that communication immediately, but in the middle of the night. In all honesty, you may blame the opposition a lot, but I cannot oblige Mrs De Bleeker to talk. I cannot oblige Mr De Croo to say that the Minister must reply. I cannot do that, Mr De Vriendt. You may be able to do that, but I'm not part of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u84	Colleagues, you're turning things around here. The opposition has done its work and found that the funds were not specifically allocated and still have not been allocated. Mr Vanden Burre says: 'C'est acquis', but that is not yet the case. There is a budget, as Minister Vandenbroucke has always said: 'We will find money'. You found money. The corona commission was there to fill up many jars. Since we are talking about transparency, I have to say that the Minister has just released the covid costs and the BBMs transparently, but also the prices that still have to be paid. I'm sure you can look it up. That is also about millions of euros. Who says that the covid commission should not be used for the payment of those amounts? You're making it all so complicated that you can always get away with it. However, if I take into account the experience that I have in the Covid Committee and in the budgets that you have released, I find that you are not going to be there. And so it's "pas acquis." I hope, as Mr Loones said, that the budgets will be effective and that we will be able to reassure people. You referred to the Flemish government. It is so easy to do this transparently. The Flemish Government has tabled an amendment and has simply entered that commission. You may have a little difficulty with the opposition's proposal and the amount you need. Then file it yourself and arrange it. Then we all agree and then we are all reassured.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u85	I understand your justifications. Mr Loones, you're right to say I'm upset. Why? I will say that very clearly and simply. To say that the night debate started yesterday morning is right. But let your colleague, Mrs Depoorter, come here to say - dat was geen vraag maar een vaststelling - at 2.30 p.m. that the vaccine is not funded, I think it is below any level. I have a lot of respect for the opposition. I sat for five years in the opposition. I know what it is and I have respect for the work of the opposition, but that, ma'am, is not correct. You make a false statement and you panic in our citizens. That's why I'm upset, whether you like it or not!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u86	I suggest we finish. Everyone's been able to bring their story. There is an opportunity for ultimate transparency. There's an amendment in front of it. If it is accepted, it is for everyone for sure and then Mr Vandenbroucke has all the commissions he needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u87	Is anyone else asking for the floor? You are still asking for the floor, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u88	Mrs Depoorter has mentioned a number of other elements on which I actually want to say the same thing as on some of the points made by Mrs Gijbels, which are absolutely important and worthy, such as patients' rights. We are indeed proposing to make this a site, in consultation with patient organisations. I pointed out in committee, among other things, that the law on patients' rights is 20 years old. That's a special birthday. We in this House will be able to have very nice and good debates on this. Maybe we should finish on that positive note.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u89	Minister, you have answered my colleagues' questions. I may not be big, but I am present. I will come back to my question about the steering committee and the stakeholders. How far along are you with that? There was a steering group on financial accessibility that met once.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u90	I said this this afternoon, but I will repeat it. That steering committee is indeed in the process, led by Mrs Rita Baeten, and will make recommendations. The steering committee is operational. I do not have the details of my reply this afternoon, but I think they have even met today. I expect a great deal from that steering group, in the sense of real operational recommendations on equal access and accessibility problems in general. I am afraid to tell you from my memory when we expect these recommendations and exactly how far they stand with them, because I do not have that document with me right now. At least we're working hard on it. The fact that such a steering committee exists in the lap of the RIZIV led by someone with special competence who has been working on this issue for many years, but also has a somewhat independent position, such as Mrs Baeten, guarantees that we, as policy-makers, will really get a whip to make access to health care work. I'm sorry I didn't tell you. I mentioned it here this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u91	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u92	Madam President, I would like to repeat briefly. Mr Minister, you have said that I am a bit of a pusher on objectives and timetables. I think you're right about that, because I'm a little impatient in such matters. At the same time, I can understand why you have not been able to develop specific paths for all the themes, except covid. However, I would ask you to submit your plans to the committee as soon as they arrive so that we can discuss them further. I should like briefly to address the issue of transparency. We have discussed this recently in the framework of the Sciensano reports. You have promised that you will make the covid data fully available transparently. I hope that you will make that a matter of real honour, and I believe that you want to do so. It will save you a lot of parliamentary questions, both from me and from my colleagues. It can also be an incentive to change attitudes. After all, we can all see that there is no tradition in this country of dealing with data in an open manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u93	Madam President, I just want to reiterate my commitment. I asked Sciensano to just make one bulletin. It'll take some time. The time requested has nothing to do with confidentiality, simply with the complexity of data, in which one wants to write more explanation for the general public. Sciensano said that this could be achieved by the beginning of January. For the time being we are still working with the two to three different versions of the same documents. What is in it must be integrated, but above all very well explained. I have been promised that this will be done from January onwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u94	This concludes the Health component. We begin the equal opportunities and gender component in the presence of Mrs Schlitz, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u95	Madam Secretary of State, I will be brief because I have made a fairly long statement in committee. Our position is well known: we are in favour of equal rights, but holy houses, which must not be broken down. Nor are we in favour of gender standardisation. But first, let me bring up the good stuff. We will support you when you tackle violence against women. You agree that there should be a better balance between work and family life, and I am very happy that you would seem to support a proposal from us on this. In the field of equal opportunities, you want to pursue an ambitious policy on monitoring and data collection. I think that's a very good idea. That would at least make it clear how much equal opportunities policy has cost us after all these years and what it has led to. One downside is that you want to create a national human rights institute alongside Unia. You would of course have received our support if you had decided to abolish Unia. I do not need to repeat that our party has problems with the anti-discrimination law, not because we are in favour of discrimination, but because the law is used to silence and prosecute people, associations and parties that are critical of migration policy. We know all about that. This goes against the principle of freedom of expression, which is sacred to us. You want to detect discrimination in the labour market through mystery calls. If you carry out such stasis practices, you will find the Flemish Interest on your way. I can go on about the anti-discrimination fetish and the anti-equality disorder, but I would like to name a case, Madam Secretary of State. We notice that your policy area mainly costs a lot of money. You quadruple the budget of previous years: four times more money for you and your cabinet in times of major crisis, when we need money for vaccines. In fact, it should be your ambition to be the last Secretary of State for Equal Opportunities. Then you would indeed have accomplished something. Finally, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to stress once again that the Flemish interest is in favour of equal opportunities and equal rights, but always linked to equal obligations. We don't read about that in your policy statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u96	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, given the time, we can say good evening. What we hear here is sometimes a little crazy. You've barely had time to settle down that you're already being asked to stop! All right! This is, at least, not our point of view. We have already had an opportunity to discuss these issues in committee, but the budget debate provides us with an opportunity to explain why we support certain measures, but also the criticisms that we have received from the general policy statement. On the positive side, we want to stress that we have a true feminist government based on parity. It's not nothing! I can't imagine how this had to happen internally; it must not have been fun every day. In any case, it was important to get to that point. Then, this is the first time that a Secretary of State has handled these files. Since this problem is vast and profound, we hope that you will not be the last, since mentalities must change. However, this will not happen overnight – for both men and women. The government has set the bar quite high, as your presence as Secretary of State shows, fairness, as well as a desire to include femicide in the new Penal Code. For us, it is essential, because it also corresponds to the demand of feminist movements and aid services that have been fighting for years in this direction. Another project of which we would like to acknowledge the positive character is the desire to extend the duration of paternity leave to 20 days. We know that some here will still find that proposing not to work for so many days is to encourage people to do nothing, although that is not our opinion at all. You have also highlighted your willingness to work in a cross-cutting manner. We don't want to take care of you either, because you're still part of the government and so you have to take care of it. We regret that this measure is gradual: with a first step in 2021, followed by others. Above all, this leave will not be made compulsory. We regret this, because we are convinced that it is through the mandatory nature of a law that we can also overcome societal pressures and traditional gender roles in the family. According to the League of Families, two in three fathers would like to benefit from this right. I don't have the numbers in front of me anymore. As far as the budget is concerned, in our enthusiasm, we want to remain cautious. Indeed, we have the impression that it does not really follow the general will of orientation. I will give some examples. With regard to domestic violence, you want to organize a study to see what happened in 2020. To this end, the budget provides for 80,000 euros, which are included in "interdepartmental provisions". Same to increase the means of the help line for a wider extension of schedules. As part of our demands, we would like these telephone help services to be reached 24 hours a day and 7 days a week, free of charge. It is noted that this system was introduced during the covid period because, during this period, violence against women increased. This measure is extended until 30 June. We look forward to it. We observe at this place an amount of 30 000 euros, but also in "interdepartmental provision". As this category is a tote category, we do not have the guarantee that this money will actually be used for this purpose. The destination of this money could change, and we remain vigilant in this regard. We are criticizing what you yourself call the link between economic violence and violence against women. This is the whole socio-economic issue, including the problem of pensions, which stresses that it is mainly women who have to live with a pension below the poverty line. It is the same with regard to wages, where we observe that it is mainly in the female sectors that wages are low. We regret that the trade union organisations' proposal to increase to EUR 14 per hour is not taken up by the relevant ministers in the other committees. Why? Because the problem of the wage gap, which currently stands at 20%, and the willingness to make every effort to move towards such equality, according to the principle of equal pay for equal work, are not sufficient to achieve true equality in the situation in which the vast majority of women find themselves. As I said, they have small wages, part-time work, and moments in their lives, where they have to stop to perform family duties. It is therefore necessary to go further than trying to narrow this gap and engage in real positive discrimination, so that these women can have real decent incomes. I'm going to the pensions for 1,500 euros. In view of what is on the table, we know that we will not achieve 1,500 euros net, neither now, nor at the end of the legislature, and that we will retain a minimum pension for a full career of 45 years. We know that nine out of ten women do not have 45 years of careers. The big black spot on this issue is the issue of the right to abortion. We really regret that this right was a currency of exchange, when the proposal had been discussed in committee. There was a majority to vote on it. We do not accept at all that this right has been a currency of exchange. It is really a disrespect for us for all the work done by women's associations, work that had almost come to an end. What are you going to do to eventually correct this quickly? This is important because this discussion on the right to abortion is also taking place at European level. For example, in Poland, there have been strong setbacks. We go so far as to say that, even if we see serious problems in the fetus, to the point that the baby's life will be in danger when it is born, abortion is not accepted. One step too much is being taken. We want Belgium to remain the driving force behind this struggle for women's rights at European level. Your compromise has the effect that we are no longer this vanguard. How will you rectify the situation? I will conclude with the 2% linear budget cuts decided by this new government. These also affect the Unia and Myria organizations. We believe that they must be financed. This decrease in the budget represents a major loss from the existing situation. We strongly criticize it and will keep an eye on it. We will also see how we can put some constructive things in place so that we can move forward. Your will is to strengthen these organizations but you do not have the budget to do so. How do you see this economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the speakers for their questions and for highlighting the few points of convergence on which we can move together over the next few years, as I pointed out in my policy presentation. I have always said that those who want to work with me to advance equal opportunities and gender will be welcome. As far as discrimination is concerned, I would like to point out that this problem is damaging the lives of many citizens and does not allow them to contribute, as they would like, to Belgium. Much has been said today about the 80% employment rate. Discrimination takes a wide range of people away from the labour market but also from the possibility of housing. Every day, they suffer things because of prejudice, and that is what we want to fight against. On the other hand, investing in the fight against discrimination can make a big difference, even if it is not just that I see it. It is said that, ideally, equal opportunities should not exist, but in a society discrimination will always exist. It is the answer society gives them that matters. I have been able to discuss this with representatives in Iceland who have done important work at this level. Discrimination is seen to decrease when responses are up to date and uncompromising. For me, it is very important that the proper functioning of Unia can be guaranteed. Every year we see their tasks grow and resources increase. I will continue to discuss this with my colleagues in the government. Let me turn to Mrs Moscufo's more specific questions. As far as socio-economic issues are concerned, a commitment has been fulfilled. It can be said that this does not go far enough. Compared to paternity leave, the fifteen days are already acquired. The father or second mother of each child born from 1 January 2021 will have access to these fortnights. This is a great step forward that must be emphasized. Another aspect that we also talked about when I presented my policy note to the committee a few weeks ago is the fact that employers need to be made aware of the need for paternity leave for society. For example, no later than a week ago, I met with an association of HRMs, which brings together about 150 participants, to raise awareness of gender equality issues within their company, particularly in top management functions, but also on sticky floor issues. In addition, I was able to address the issue of paternity leave. It is a work that I continue to do in society. But I take note of your position with regard to the fact that compulsory leave would obviously be an added value. With regard to the financing of the plan to combat violence during the period of cohabitation, I have today received the notification that the interdepartmental provision for the financing of this plan has been approved in the amount of EUR 380 000. You tell me that there is no increase in resources, while our ambitions are strong. It is true that budgetary restrictions are necessary in all ministerial departments. Nevertheless, when I presented my note, I had also committed myself to changing that in future budgets and in future budgetary discussions. It's not a commitment yet, but it's a will on my part. On the other hand, I also pledged to you to seek, whenever possible, budgets to strengthen gender equality and opportunities. This can, of course, be done in a cross-cutting manner. It is not necessarily directly in my skills that this must be done. These are actions that I have already undertaken. One example is obtaining funding for the plan to combat violence through the covid interdepartmental provision. As part of the recovery plan, a fact sheet was produced on my subjects to promote equality between women and men; indeed, we do not want to rebuild a society that is more unequal after the crisis than it was before. We also went to the Vulnerable Groups Task Force to look for gender equality budgets. It was really important to us. Together with Karine Lalieux, we have funded associations that directly support women and people who are victims of domestic violence, but also LGBTQI+ people who are rejected by their family unit and who sometimes find themselves on the street. These people are helped today by shelters that are submerged. We will therefore strengthen these shelters for an amount of €955,000. This is really a strong commitment of this government to equal opportunities. It must be realized that gender mainstreaming will be implemented to ensure that equality is achieved whenever a new policy is implemented. Gender budgeting is also a tool that we want to develop in this Parliament to put in place a gender-sensitive budget that will ensure that every euro invested does not reinforce inequalities between women and men, but instead strengthen equality. It is by measuring these things that we can do it. That is what I am committed to implementing over the next few years. As far as the other social dimensions are concerned, they are really a big concern. This is a project that I will explore in the coming months and years with my colleagues, both the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Pensions, and the Minister of Pensions has a commitment, in her political note, to take account of career inequalities between women and men in pension reform. It is known that women have more fragmented careers, which correspond to the distribution of household chores between women and men, but also to the smaller investment that a woman may have made in her career. It is therefore really important to take account of these historical inequalities in the calculation of pensions. It is a commitment that we are committed to. This is a subject that can also be discussed in committee in the coming months. You were referring to the IVG file. This has already been discussed in committee. Today, the opinion of the Council of State has come back. The ball is in Parliament's camp. I think I've answered all the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u98	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, I thank you for the answers you have just given to colleagues and for re-posting the ambition for more equality and the fight against violence. From now on, it will appear on the government's agenda in a cross-cutting way, through your ministry, that of Justice and that of the Interior. I don't want to create any controversy. However, we know that this must be achieved through action and budgetary means. I'll put that aside, you've talked about it. I take another one to which we are particularly attentive and about which we do not understand the position taken: it is the paternity leave of the adoptive fathers. Our colleague, Catherine Fonck, has gone up to the barricades on several occasions, if I may say so, for this important point which seems anachronistic to us in relation to the desire we support for this leave. Why not extend it to adopted children? These parents are asking for it. We are regularly called upon to do so. There is a break in equality between the parents. It seems essential to us that you take this complementary step in order to further your ambition in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u99	Madam Secretary of State, there is still an important project on which we have not understood why it is not moving any faster: the question of the individualisation of rights. The "price of love" has been removed for people with disabilities. We want to insist, because it is a "simple" way of ensuring that all women have their independence. Secondly, we have not seen anything in the budget about police training and at the level of justice. Training is very important. The returns that I have received from the local police indicate that they feel attacked and considered to be incompetent when the question is not about skills but rather about the need for training. We have not seen a budget for this. We also reiterate our proposal to centralize local activities into a short-term plan, so that they can be enriched and see how they can be mainstreamed nationally. We will remain constructive, but critical, by submitting concrete proposals to continue this path towards equality, which is not finished.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u100	I thank the Secretary of State. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u101	We move on to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the Ways and Means budget for the fiscal year 2021. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1577/1) We will begin the discussion of the articles of the draft law on the Budget for the financial year 2021. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1577/1) The bill has 20 clauses. The draft law has 20 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u102	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved item, the attached table, as well as on the whole bill containing the budget for the Ways and Means of the Budget Year 2021, will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments retained and the article retained, the table in the annex and on the whole of the draft law on the Budget for the financial year 2021 will take place later. We proceed to the discussion of the sections of the bill containing the General Estimates for the fiscal year 2021. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1578/1+41) We begin the discussion of the articles of the draft general expenditure budget for the financial year 2021. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1578/1+41) The Bill includes clauses 1-01-1 to 6-01-3. The draft law includes Articles 1-01-1 to 6-01-3.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u103	• 75 Wouter Vermeersch cs (1578/42)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u104	• 91 Sander Loones cs (1578/42)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u105	• 96 Marco Van Hees (1578/42)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u106	Reserved: the amendments, Article 1-01-2 and the annexed tables. Sustained: the amendments, Article 1-01-2 and the attached tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u107	Adopted Article by Article: Articles 1-01-1, 1-01-3 to 1-01-6, 2.01.1 to 2.01.9, 2.02.1 to 2.02.10, 2.06.1 to 2.06.10, 2.12.1 to 2.12.7, 2.13.1 to 2.13.24, 2.14.1 to 2.14.16, 2.16.1 to 2.16.25, 2.17.1 to 2.17.13, 2.18.1 to 2.18.6, 2.19.1 to 2.19.5, 2.23.1 to 2.23.3, 2.24.1 to 2.24.4, 2.25.1 to 2.25.1, 2.32.1, 2.33.1 to 2.33.6, 2.44.1 to 2.44.7, 2.46.1 to 2.46.9, 2.51.1 and 2.51.2, 2.52.1, 3-01-1, 4-01-1 and 4-01-2, 5-01-1 to 5-01-4, 6-01-1 to 6-01-3.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u108	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and rule 1-01-2 reserved, the attached tables, as well as on the entire bill containing the General Estimates for the fiscal year 2021, will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments retained, the Article 1-01-2 adopted, the tables in the annex and on the whole of the draft general budget for expenditure for the financial year 2021 will take place later. We move on to the discussion of the clauses in the program bill. The text adopted by the committees serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1662/12) We begin by discussing the articles of the draft programme law. The text adopted by the committees is the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1662/12) The bill has 95 articles, as well as annexes. The draft law contains 95 articles and annexes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u109	• 3 – Joy Donné cs (1662/13)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u110	• 2 – Catherine Fonck (1662/13)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u111	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article, as well as on articles 59 and 60 and on the draft programme law as a whole, will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments retained, the article retained and on Articles 59 and 60 and on the draft programme law as a whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u112	Voters 112 Stemmen White or invalid 4 Blank or invalid Two-thirds majority 75 Two-thirds majority For the first candidate For the first candidate Mr. Geert Jocqué obtained 1 vote. Mr Geert Jocqué received one vote. Mr. Pierre Lefranc obtained 9 votes. Mr Pierre Lefranc received nine votes. Mr Wouter Pas obtained 0 votes Mr Wouter Pas received 0 votes Mr. Danny Pieters obtained 94 votes Mr Danny Pieters received 94 votes Mr. Jan Theunis obtained 4 votes Mr Jan Theunis received 4 votes M. Bart Weekers a obtenu 0 voix Mr Bart Weekers received 0 votes Mr. Danny Pieters, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, is declared the first candidate for the vacant position of Dutch-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court. Mr Danny Pieters, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed first candidate for the vacant post of Dutch-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court. For the second candidate For the second candidate Mr. Geert Jocqué obtained 92 votes. Mr Geert Jocqué received 92 votes. Mr. Pierre Lefranc obtained 1 vote. Mr Pierre Lefranc received one vote. Mr Wouter Pas obtained 0 votes Mr Wouter Pas received 0 votes Mr. Danny Pieters obtained 1 vote Mr Danny Pieters received one vote Mr. Jan Theunis obtained 9 votes Mr Jan Theunis received 9 votes M. Bart Weekers a obtenu 2 voix Mr Bart Weekers received 2 votes Mr Geert Jocqué, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared a second candidate for the vacant position of Dutch-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court. Mr Geert Jocqué, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed second candidate for the vacant post of Dutch-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u113	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Benoît Piedboeuf, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u114	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1659/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1659/1) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip080x.u115	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article and the annexed tables, as well as on the whole, will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the article that has been adopted and the annexed tables will take place at a later date. The discussion on all budget texts is therefore closed. We will, as we have done for a first block of amendments, open the vote on this second block of amendments concerning all these budget texts. The services will send you an e-mail with the information required on this subject. The vote will be open for two hours, until 9 p.m. I ask the group leaders to remind their members to pay attention to this exceptionally organised vote to speed up procedures. Given the length of our discussions, I also propose to take a technical break allowing the services to organize their work. We'll resume at 7:10 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, December 17, 2020 at 7:10 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting on Thursday 17 December 2020 at 7.10 p.m.
