ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u2	I welcome the Prime Minister. It has returned from abroad in time to answer the questions in the Chamber. Madam Prime Minister, that's a credit to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u3	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, believe it or not, politicians agreed this week. The rejection of the racist comments about the refugees in De Panne sounded loudly across the party boundaries, and that is right. Ladies and gentlemen, with some well-meaning tweets, however, we will not solve that problem, especially if political parties themselves continue to throw oil on the fire, for example by sending manipulated photos for campaigns against migration to the world. Madam Prime Minister, there is an urgent need to find a solution that allows all hate crimes to be prosecuted in the same way. There is currently a total lack of consistency. Hate must not go unpunished because the procedures do not work. Experts have been advocating the revision of Article 150 of the Constitution for years. It is important that there should be a thorough and political consensus on this issue. That is why my group proposes to set up a working group with representatives of all democratic parties. Madam Prime Minister, would you support our proposal and ask Parliament to set up this working group? The fact that political parties deliberately send fake news to the world and thus stir up hatred is contrary to our democratic mandate. That's gotta stop. Prime Minister Michel announced in 2018 that the government would free up a fund to fight fake news. What is the point, however, of spending external money if the problem arises here in our midst? Madam Prime Minister, are you prepared to work on a deontological code for political parties in the working group we are proposing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, before giving the floor to Mrs Rohonyi, I would like to say that we ourselves decide what we do in Parliament. We can set up this working group, but I fully agree with you that action by the government and Parliament should be followed together. I would like to add that we held a commemoration of the Holocaust here yesterday. It was a particularly worthy remembrance. How come people could have done something like that to other people? When people read what appears on various sites today, I only have one word for it: abhorrence. I can't ask you a question. I have to chair the Chamber, but I would like to inform the Chamber that I will support any action that will be taken in this respect with all my strength and conviction. Excuse me for getting out of my role a little bit. As Speaker of the House, I now give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u5	You did very well, Mr. President! Prime Minister, I wish I hadn't had to question you today. Similarly, I would have wished to live in a country where new technologies and the fundamental right of freedom of expression are not used to incite hatred towards those fleeing war and misery. However, to read the racist comments that have spread over the Internet following this rescue operation last Tuesday in La Panne, it must be noted that our fight against racism and hatred is far from over. As you well recalled yesterday, Mr. President, on the occasion of the ceremony in memory of the victims of the Shoah, it is our duty to fight racist messages on the Internet. I am sure, Madam Prime Minister, that you are abounding in this direction and agree with it. However, Belgium has still not deployed an intra-federal action plan against this phenomenon, despite its commitment at the time of the Durban Conference in 2001. It has therefore been twenty years since there was any coordination between the federal government and the federated entities, and during this time racism has been expressed in a totally uncompromising way on our social networks. Hence my questions, Madam Prime Minister. First, what measures has your Government taken to combat racism and cyber hate in particular? Why have not the actors who are mobilizing each day in this struggle been consulted in order to draw up this action plan? Are you in favour of measures similar to those taken in Germany and those being adopted in France? To what extent does Belgium participate in the development of a European code of conduct for Internet hosting providers? Finally, how can you remedy the lack of resources allocated to the justice system to put an end to the impunity of perpetrators of racist statements on the Internet? In advance, I thank you for your answers, Madam Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u6	Mr President, I join everything my colleagues have already said in terms of shock and shame following what we have been able to read on certain social networks or websites. Yesterday, many of us attended the commemoration of the 75th anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz camp, which reminds us where hatred and discrimination lead us. I sincerely believe, Madam Prime Minister, that here too our country must act. We need to recognize all the effervescence and prosperity that social networks can bring, while questioning all that they can bring disgusting and shocking. As a liberal, it will not surprise you, I think that freedom must be the most complete but must always go hand in hand with responsibility. The same applies to the responsibility for the statements made, even if we hide behind a computer. Madam Prime Minister, many laws were adopted in France, as was the case yesterday in the National Assembly, or in Germany a few years ago. We are also considering a code of conduct at European level, but I would also like you to remind us of the state of affairs in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u7	Prime Minister, this week we have been confronted with racist and hateful reactions on social networks following the rescue of refugees in the North Sea in La Panne. Since then, several reactions from various parties have been heard, including that of Mr. Dewael earlier. In our view, the debate is aimed at identifying who, in fact, is fuelling this unacceptable racism and speech. I will quote two of them: "Leave them at sea!" and "If they want to go to England, let them go swimming!" For us, it is clear: these words are propagated by the nationalist right and by the far right who, through these speeches, normalize this racism. We will remember the false campaign of the N-VA at the time of the UN Migration Pact. She came out again today and yesterday in the press with evidence that the photos used by the N-VA were faked. These photos were taken without problem today by the Vlaams Belang. For us, it is clear that racism serves to divide workers and, in times of crisis, there is great anger among workers in Belgium because, Madam Prime Minister, Belgium from below suffers. The aim of these right-wing nationalist and far-right parties is to divide to rule and try to make believe that it is the fault of the refugees if there is no work in Belgium. That's obviously not true! If there is no work in Belgium, it is because of the multinationals whose sole aim is to put money in the shareholder's pocket. Madam Prime Minister, it is clear that in this context there is a great problem of racism in our society and that it is time to act. In 2001, our country committed itself to developing an action plan against racism. It's been 19 years! How do you justify that this plan is not there yet? What are you going to do to counter these racist speeches?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u8	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, "Let them swim!", "Don't save them!", "It costs money!", "Good journey!", "Let them go back to swimming!"... These are the ignoble, hateful, racist words that were spilled online after the shipwreck of 14 men and women in La Panne on Tuesday. As other colleagues said before me, yesterday in this House, we were commemorating with emotion, 75 years later, the memory of the victims and survivors of the Shoah. In the presence of a survivor of the camps who paid tribute to Belgium, the host country, we must recall, we heard these young girls tell about their visit to the camps and explain the need to keep the memory alive so as not to have to relive the horror. We also listened to this Antwerp historian reminding us of the ambiguity of the Belgian authorities at the time: benevolent Belgium, docile Belgium, in its collaboration with the Nazi regime. Just 24 hours after this commemoration, we are in the same Chamber to discuss, Mr President, forums full of racist obscenities. We are on the brink of nausea in the face of so much hatred. Let me point out here one particular party: the Vlaams Belang. To paraphrase Desproges, I would say: read one of their leaflets; for a lesser cost, you will have nausea and dirty hands. As politicians, as democrats, we must go beyond indignation and shame. We must act, silence these words and prevent the ensuing acts. Prime Minister, I know you on our side; I know you are sensitive to the Enlightenment. We must make living together the cement of Belgian society. We must re-establish our social cohesion as a priority and punish those who often have the courage of anonymity to vomit their abomination. Prime Minister, what concrete steps have you taken since Tuesday? What is your action plan to combat racism on the Internet and cyber hate? Have these contents been removed? Has your government been actively working with Unia to end these behaviours?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this House we are not all of the same political colour. But we must have a common enemy, an enemy that transcends divisions, an enemy that must be publicly denounced, even if it also acts insidiously, in the shadow, behind a computer. This enemy is the hatred of the other. The migrant rescue operation on Tuesday in La Panne gave rise to a flood of racist comments on social networks and elsewhere. Like you said, it's disgusting! It's unbearable! Before you, I want to strongly condemn these words and tell you that such speeches are an insult to the values of respect, openness and dialogue that underpin our democracy. [[Applause]] Even yesterday, we commemorated the victims of the Holocaust in this Parliament. You have heard the moving testimony of Mrs. Pinhas-Lipstadt, a survivor of horror. On Monday, I will be in Auschwitz with our sovereign and other Heads of State and Government to pay tribute to the victims and to recall the importance of memory. More than ever, we must remember, transmit memory to remember that hatred, all hatreds without exception, have no place in our society. Our fight requires more vigilance in social media times, it is true. In Davos, I was able to talk to Susan Wojcicki, YouTube CEO. We have discussed at length the need to define the means by which we can stop the spread of hatred of others on the Internet. Belgium supports, in this regard, the efforts of the European Commission which have led to a European code of conduct on e-hate speech to which the main platforms have acceded. It provides commitments in terms of the withdrawal of content by companies such as Facebook, Twitter or YouTube. Freedom of expression is sacred. That's right. We have to protect her. But racism and anti-Semitism are not opinions. They're crimes. The government has taken several concrete measures. I am thinking of the recent campaign against racism and the launch of a call for projects to support organisations working on it. We are also developing a draft inter-federal action plan against racism. I am also thinking of the working group set up by the Minister for Justice and Equal Opportunities to investigate the spread of hate on social networks. In addition, the Internet Referral Unit was established in the previous legislature to address the problem of illegal content on the Internet. But we have to go further! We must continue to develop an arsenal of measures to prevent such behaviour. Several proposals have been made here and I think they should be studied. In addition, together with my colleagues in the government, we decided this morning to propose the establishment of an inter-ministerial conference to combat racism and anti-Semitism as soon as the next consultation committee was set up. This conference should enable better coordination of initiatives in this field with a view to ensuring the effectiveness of the actions to be taken. After Bilzen, La Panne. Again, it's too much. Too much. Indignation is a salutary moment. It calls upon our democratic vigilance. But indignation is not enough, it must leave room for action. In order to achieve this, I know that we can count on all the democrats of this House and its President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u10	Madam Prime Minister, I am very pleased that you strongly condemn hate speech. I am also pleased that you are announcing a number of measures, such as the organisation of the Inter-Ministerial Conference, which I think is better late than never. The fire in Bilzen, now the hate reports about what happened in De Panne, the slander campaign against one of my colleagues, the mass daily hate online, enough is enough. To those colleagues who reminded the Holocaust yesterday and then eagerly continued to spread fake news, I say you are a hypocrite. To those Members who refuse to go along with this, I would like to ask how long we are still going to bear the fact that our democratic mandate is being affected in such a way. I call on everyone to take action together. Let us work on the working party against hate speech and make sure that in a few weeks' time we do not have to condemn yet another act of hatred, Twitter pages full.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u11	Madam Minister, I thank you for your very strong comments, and for your commitment to organizing this interdepartmental conference and to holding consultations, even though I regret that this was not done earlier. I also thank you for reminding you of one essential thing, namely that racism is not an opinion, but a crime. It's a crime that affects our living together. That is precisely why the fight against racism must concern all the democrats in this country, on the right as well as on the left, in the south as in the north of this country. It is also the extreme right against which we must fight, because it galvanizes the fear of others and makes it possible to make hateful, racist and unacceptable statements in this way. It is this fight against these two common enemies, to use your words, Madam Prime Minister, that we must lead together, together, simultaneously and with the same intransigence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u12	Madam Prime Minister, thank you very much for your frank and sincere words, your strong commitments, and your strong condemnation of what is not tolerable in a democracy. I repeat. We are very much moved by the prosperity that some new technologies can bring, but also by the dehumanization that they cause at times, as is evident from the comments made by some in this particular case. I would also like to make it clear that we, the democratic parties, both on the left and on the right, have this strength and duty to bring together. We certainly have it when it comes to our fundamental laws and respect for human rights. We must gather what is scattered. That's what I'll call this noon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u13	Madam Prime Minister, we can all welcome your initiative as an interdepartmental conference, but I must admit that I am not entirely reassured about our questions when, after 19 years, this famous plan is still awaited by, among other things, this great federal coalition and these fifty-six associations. The important thing for us is that every day that passes without this plan leaves room for hate speech that I explained earlier. This leaves room for this extreme right that we all have to fight. I guess no one here wants to be an accomplice in these policies. Behind this party's racist policy is its inhumane policy towards refugees, which serves to hide its anti-social policy towards workers. I will end by saying that racism divides workers. They want us to type down instead of typing up. No pasarán!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u14	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for confirming that today there are Democrats, and then there are those who are not. I thank you for saying that freedom of expression does not cover racism or incitement to hatred, which is not contained in this freedom of expression, but constitutes an offence, a criminal offence, an offence which must be prosecuted, unambiguously and firmly. I would also like to thank you for having indicated that you are going to refer the matter to the Consultation Committee to set up an inter-ministerial conference, between the federal and federal entities, to combat this scourge and ignominy of racism and incitement to racial hatred. Finally, I thank you for continuing your efforts and for continuing to have a clear speech on racism in this House, because this clear speech is growing up here as a democrat. Otherwise, I assure you, it is not the shipwreck of fourteen people we will be talking about, but the shipwreck of our own democracy, which we may be witnessing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u15	Mr Minister, I have here a cheat note, a page from the blunderbook of the sale-and-lease-back operations of the Verhofstadt-Vande Lanotte government. Last week, the financial institutions were sold for 1.2 billion euros. You know that this Financial Institution was once owned by the government and sold for EUR 311 million. We then rented the building, for 59 million euros a year, to be paid until 2034. Colleagues, I'm gonna keep going. The Butterfly Palace, the courthouse of Antwerp, had a cost of 280 million euros and was sold for 180 million euros. It was then rented for 12 million euros per year for 36 years. Another example is the Ghent Palace of Justice. The cost to the taxpayer was 140 million euros and it was sold for 5.55 million euros to KBC. It was then rented for 36 years for 7.3 million euros per year. The National Administrative Centre cost 74 million euros and was sold for 27.1 million euros, after which it was rented for two years and three months for 21.5 million euros. At the Fedimmodeal a lottery ticket of 576 million euros was sold and then rented for 40 million euros per year. The Lex building in the Wetstraat was sold for 13 million euros and was rented for one year for 4.45 million euros. The Centre Albert in Charleroi, best Walloon friends, was sold to Kairos for 13 million euros and rented for 25 years at 1.2 million euros per year. I can go on like this for a while. Mr. Nodes, what will you do about these loan contracts? These are contracts that are all one third above the current price and you have the right to renegotiate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u16	Minister, the sale of the Tour des Finances has just taken place and it is said that this is probably the largest sale in the history of Belgium. It may also be one of the largest real estate holding companies in Belgium. The government of the time practiced the sale and lease back, i.e. it sold the state buildings and immediately rented them by paying rents. Finally, there's a double hold-up in this story. First there's the hold-up on the sale price. At the time, it was sold for 300 million – with a similar amount of asbestos removal costs – and is now sold twice as expensive, 1.2 billion. It is a surplus value of more than half a billion euros. At the time, it was Minister Rik Daems who organized the sale. The second hold-up took place in 2004, when Minister Reynders entered into the lease with the new owner. The State pays around EUR 1.5 billion in rents over 30 years, as this represents twice the market price. Who is the beneficiary of these two holding-ups? Frank Zweegers, a dull Dutch businessman. He even had a dispute with the Belgian tax office – hence its tenant – about the tax construction of the Tour des Finances. The snake bites its tail! Minister, after this accumulation of scandals, do you have any leads to reduce the final bill? Mr. Zweegers was charged with corruption and served prison in Italy. Shouldn't a new investigation be initiated against him for possible acts of corruption?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u17	Minister, the last Verhofstadt government has been behind us for 12 years, but so far purple-green bodies have been falling out of the closet. The longer it's been, the harder they stink. In the early 2000s, our country had to meet the financial requirements of the young euro area. While Greece forged its budget, the Verhofstadt government also pulled out the trick box with the sale-and-lease-back operations. The state spatrimonium was willingly squandered and the next generations were allowed to pay the bill. They prefer to carry out tricks in the short term rather than to reform on the substance. In the meantime, the sale of the financial institutions has been the subject of a fraud process in which two lobbyists have been convicted. According to the judge, they were connected to Open Vld Kabinets. They were found guilty of scripture, tax evasion and money laundering. Gifts were distributed from many tens of millions of euros at taxpayers' expense. In the past, the Financial Institutions were our property, today we pay 59 million euros a year. The total rent over the term of the contract is more than EUR 1 billion. Some people are getting rich, but the taxpayer loses, with the greetings of the Open Vld. Mr Minister, can we straighten that out? Can we still correct this destructive deal, concluded by then Minister Daems, or is it a choke-off contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u18	Mr President, the financial institutions have recently been sold for EUR 1.2 billion. At that time, the Belgian State sold the building for 311 million euros, including registration fees and notary fees. The contract was immediately converted into a rental contract concluded in 2002 for an amount of 24 million euros. Afterwards, in 2003, this amount was increased to EUR 42 million by an annex. This results in a rent of 150 euros per square meter in 2002 and 240 euros per square meter in 2003. Today the rental price is about 330 euros per square meter as a result of the indexation. The area in which the Finance Tower is located is not the Europe neighbourhood. It's definitely not the most expensive neighborhood. In this sense, this is a very expensive rental contract, compared to other neighbourhoods and neighbourhoods in Brussels. At the moment all floors of the tower are in use. About 3,800 people work there. With that the tower is certainly not optimally filled. There is certainly a need for additional staff to be transferred to that tower if it is to be fully filled. The question of whether this can still be corrected is a difficult question because the contract runs until 2034. I have asked the Government of the Buildings to consider whether, in the medium term, you will have to acknowledge with me that 2034 is still a short distance from us, a re-housing for the services established in it can be investigated. Renegotiing a rent of EUR 59 million and more is always a difficult matter. As far as the criminal and fiscal aspects of this case are concerned, I am not prepared for the questions. It goes without saying, however, that I would like to respond to this in committee or here in plenary on a subsequent occasion. I prefer not to preach half-truths today. As far as possible, we must avoid this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u19	Minister, I hope you will be able to renegotiate the contract. However, I have a task for you, ladies and gentlemen. It is easy to say that all this has happened in the past. I'm going to give an example of something that hasn't happened in the past. The Forum building, which the Chamber has since purchased, was first offered to the Chamber by the Government of the Buildings for 22.5 million euros. At that time, however, it was not necessary to have it. The building was then sold for 39.5 million euros to a real estate company. Five years later, the Chamber bought the building again for 139.5 million euros. Mr Geens, Mr President, I propose that a committee of inquiry be set up to look at what has happened there and what can still be done about it. The political and administrative responsibility in this dossier must be examined. Moreover, I can give you twenty such examples, but nothing ever happens, unless false promises are made. Take the helm as a Chamber itself, because we were fooled in the above-mentioned dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u20	Minister, what's your answer? On the one hand, you are telling us that you are going to ask the Régie des Bâtiments if anything can be done, but without being too sure. You're not very determined, minister! We're losing a billion and a half! You don't have money to hire prison officers or to refinance justice, but now we can lose a billion and a half without a problem. The state is losing money. What else are you telling us? That this building isn't really full. That we're going to see if we can't entangle the public servants a little bit more. But, Minister, I can remind you that there are also ministers in this building. Ms De Block, Mr Clarinval, Mr. De Croo is at the Tower of Finance. Shouldn't you bring them together in one office rather than entangle the public servants? Shouldn't we start with the ministers, to gain room? This would address the mistakes of previous governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u21	Mr President, Minister, your answer confirms our fears. The sale-and-lease-back of the Finance Tower has resulted in a very expensive strangle contract. This destructive deal, made by order of the Verhofstadt government, has been committed. Let's hope your research is successful. In the other case, we are forced to let ourselves be lit up where we assist until the year 2034. The case could cost us fortunes, thanks to the purple-green government. It's not the only file either. Think of the sale-and-lease-back of courthouses, the mischief of the RAC 4 on the Pachecolaan or the pension fund of Belgacom. All that costs us billions of euros. However, while we still have to clean up the mess of purple-green today, some are already eager to start a new purple-green government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u22	(...). EUR 12 billion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u23	Mr Calvo, the matter is very sensitive. I understand that. Mr President, I understand that the truth is hurting. That's not a problem. But today we have to clean up the mess of purple-green (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u24	Minister, people are having a hard time making ends meet. You know that, Minister, you were partly responsible for the antisocial policy of the previous government. Since 1 January, one population has improved. Since January 1st, the prisoners in this country receive a raise. Minister, you recently said that this is not enough for you. Only 22 days after the raise for criminals, prisoners, you say it's not enough. It should be more. It is particularly painful that you make that statement at a time when the guards are crying out, that they are moaning among the overcrowding in prisons. They must work in unsafe conditions and they are undermanned. In this country, there is money for criminals, but not for guards. In this country, there is money for criminals, but not for victims. In this country there is money for criminals, but not for new prisons and additional capacity. What is the situation with regard to the expansion of prison capacity, which your party has been promising for so long? How will you ensure that victims finally get their compensation? Meanwhile, I wonder if you are Minister of Justice, Mr. Geens, or the patron saint of criminals in this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u25	Mr President, the level is rising week after week. That is not irony, because, as you know, irony is a very dangerous means of speaking. Last week I was Mr. Pastor, according to the PVDA. This week I am the patron saint of the prisoners, according to the Flemish interest. At least you'll find each other there. Ladies and gentlemen, you are asking questions other than those I expected. I expected you to ask me how much that raise would cost. It costs 19,000 euros a year to the Treasury. I thought you'd ask how much prison work the Treasury pays a year. That's gross 3 million euros. Of this, EUR 1.4 million goes to training and other things for prisoners and EUR 1.1 million net to the Treasury. I had hoped that you would have asked what this work is for. Then I would have told you that it's about parole and paying off victims and the bourgeois parties. It's about a meaningful activity. I was hoping you'd have asked me how much it's paying by the hour. That is on average between 1 and 2 euros. If you would like to ask me about the overpopulation in our prisons, I can tell you that this Minister of Justice, no matter how holy he seems to you, has tried to ensure that Haren is built, and if you look down from the bridge of Vilvoorde, you will see that Haren is half-finished. I have ensured that Dendermonde is built and that five new prisons and interned facilities are currently being built in Wallonia and four in Flanders, something I work on every day. If we continue in this Chamber to talk about people in this way, whether they are prisoners or prisoners, you will find me occasionally, as today, on your way. I look forward to your spicy answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u26	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I don't have any lessons from you on what the level is. This is a legitimate concern that lives among the population. You said you hoped that I would ask this or that. Well, the people had hoped that you would at last make justice again and that you would work on that extra capacity in prisons. You know me, Minister. We run into each other sometimes in debates. I'm doing constructive opposition. If you want extra capacity in the prisons, I can give you a tip. One in two prisoners in our country does not have our nationality. If we were to start letting those prisoners serve their sentence in their country of origin, it would be cheaper and safer and you would have additional reception capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u27	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last week we witnessed an incident in De Panne in which people try to reach Britain via the North Sea. They used to leave mainly from France; now they do the same from our coasts. It's horrible how human smugglers try to get innocent victims to cross the sea in such crappy boats, that they die. It is clear that we must fight against those smugglers who found another way to get people to Britain. Governor Decaluwé had a proposal for an unmanned aircraft, a super drone, to fly over the coastline. Via the cameras of the plane and satellite images we can get a live view of the dunes, the beach and the sea. That way, we can screen everything for incidents. He was already in contact with Frontex, the European Union's Border Guard Agency, in the context of the cooperation with France that these planes also use. The only thing we need to provide are operators to view and interpret the images. Let us be clear that our party is very satisfied with Prime Minister Wilmès' statement that we must do something about hate speech. Indeed, even though our region is under great pressure on transmigration, that certainly does not justify any offensive and racist statements. First of all, do you agree that we should bet on such planes? Secondly, will you provide manpower to view the footage? Thirdly, have you had any contact with Frontex? Finally, do you intend to take further measures to combat the smugglers of human beings?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u28	Mr President, Mr Demon, since December 2018, I have been making the approach to transmigration, of which we unfortunately saw another example in De Panne last week, and of trafficking in human beings and smuggling, which often go hand in hand, an absolute priority. Witnessing this are, since I had checked on the spot for the unsafe situations, the numerous reinforced police operations across the Belgian territory, even cross-border, involving drones, special scanners, dog brigades and cavalry. Moreover, the federal police in West Flanders have been strengthened at my request in recent months. Furthermore, last week, independently of the incident that took place yesterday morning, the coordinator was also appointed to deal with the problems of transmigration and security at the port of Zeebrugge. His powers will be cross-border. In this context, I can inform you that 23 transmigrants were intercepted today in a Hungarian refrigerated truck near the Zeebrugge infrastructure. They may have been saved from death. We were able to record the trajectory of the traffickers involved, which began in our country, on the territory of Borgworm-Waremme. International cooperation with the British is very concrete. From now on, they will invest EUR 4 million in the port of Zeebrugge in a first phase, of which EUR 1 million will be earmarked for the police approach, which will cover the entire coastal strip. As I agreed with my fellow ministers Patel of the United Kingdom and Castaner of France, I put my shoulders under the use of materials such as drones, and the provision of men to interpret the images. That is an absolute priority. Your call, colleague Franky Demon, and Governor Decaluwe, do not fall into deaf ears. Together, we will manage the issue and also provide solutions that ensure that transmigration cannot be a permanent phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u29	Thank you for your strong answer. I've tried to raise the issues several times in the Chamber. No matter which minister it was, there has been decisive action. I believe that we should do the same now that a new way has been found. Human smugglers are trying to transfer innocent victims by sea. It is poignant to hear that 23 transmigrants were again found in a refrigerated truck today. This shows that we need to invest and that we need to show decisiveness. Thank you, Minister, for that effort.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u30	Things aren't going so well in your department, Mrs. De Block. A few weeks ago, it became clear that the vast majority of illegal immigrants who were expelled did not leave the country. Worse still, the number of sans papers in our country is now reaching record heights. That's even in the left-wing newspapers today. The returns are in freefall, but I won't be talking about that today. I could go on for hours about the abuses in your department, but unfortunately I only get two minutes from Mr Dewael, who is always correct with his clock, unless there are political opponents attacking the Flemish Interest. They'll be happy to have another 30 seconds. I would rather talk today about a much more urgent problem. Criminal aliens can enter this country unimpeded. Last week it was proved that visas and residence permits in connection with family reunification are, in many cases, granted automatically or without any thorough control. Many politicians and journalists pretended to fall out of the sky when they got that staggering information, but I would like to remind everyone here that the Flemish interest brought that to light two years ago, when your predecessor was still in power. The Flemish interest has already denounced this in Parliament. The facts are now known. Due to too few staff and, above all, too many applications, some applications for family reunification are not checked and finally automatically approved. As a result, I quote a source from the Foreign Affairs Office "and certainly also the applications of people who have entered into a marriage of convenience or even are known as criminals abroad." Mrs. De Block, what will you do to put an end to that? Do not hide behind the rules of the European Union, like your predecessor, because the automatic granting of residence permits to people whose application has not even been examined, as you are doing now, Mrs De Block, is completely illegal according to the European Court of Justice. So finally, unlike your predecessor, accept your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u31	If you sit next to me, Mr Van Langenhove, we can look at the clock together and you will see that you have spoken for 20 seconds too long. I'll give it to you for the record.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u32	Madam Secretary, there's a lot going on in the Foreign Office. The Court of Auditors calls the situation worrying. Residence permits are automatically approved without prior examination. Files stay down. Reports by cities and municipalities remain unanswered. That is unacceptable, Madam Secretary. That's bad governance, Madam Secretary. As socialists, we consider a strong government of fundamental importance. This also means a strong and effective Alien Affairs Service, which deals with abuses, but which also grants the right of residence in good time if they are entitled to do so, but always after thorough investigation. That's good governance. Good governance is a duty of the government. Good governance is also an antidote, because it prevents abuses and therefore also displeasure and political recovery with long tirades and slogans without solutions, such as those of the previous speaker. Unfortunately, the focus has not been on good governance in recent years. Your predecessor did a tough job on Twitter but in the meantime saved on his services, while he gave them extra orders. DVZ couldn't see the trees through the forest, despite the superhuman efforts of the staff. In the end, DVZ is no longer able to perform its own core tasks properly. In the meantime, you've been in charge of Migration for a year. You said you found the department in ruins. In the meantime, what have you done to address the abuses to which the Court of Auditors refers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u33	Mr Segers, I would like to congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u34	Minister, this week we received the Court of Auditors' report on the processing of applications for family reunification by the Aliens Office. Colleagues, this body examined essentially three points: the normative framework of the grouping, the mastery of the process and the collaboration between the Office for Foreigners and its external partners. With regard to the processing of applications, the Court's findings are of concern. I quote: "The number of visas granted ex officio increased in 2018: 311 compared to 72 in 2017. Such ex officio issuances are due to the exceeding of the time limit for examination by the Aliens Office". The Court added that "they will sometimes lead to a final residence permit, without further examination. Indeed, many renewal applications are no longer being considered for lack of sufficient resources." In addition, the Court of Auditors found that there was a lack of follow-up on residence files. In addition, for favourable decisions, the Office systematically leaves the deadline to lapse and only forwards its decision to the communes in case of refusal. This method, contrary to good administrative practice, prevents positive decisions from being recorded and distinguished from those taken in the absence of a review of the file. In this respect, the Court recommends, inter alia, that all visa and residence applications should be processed within the prescribed time limits and that the system of tacit positive decision-making in terms of residence should be abandoned in order to comply with good administrative practice. Minister, my questions are as follows. What position do you have from the Court of Auditors, which I have just referred to, and the recommendations it makes? What measures do you think could be taken to remedy this situation? Finally, in particular with regard to the Foreign Office, what can be done, in your opinion and your services?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I have taken note of the Court of Auditors' report on the year 2018. However, I would first like to put things in the right perspective. According to the law, there are two ways for the administration, i.e. for the Foreign Office, to have a file followed up positively by the municipality, in particular by giving an instruction to the municipality or by failing to do so within the prescribed period. It is true that DVZ, due to a lack of people and resources, has at some point begun to use the second option, which I have never put under any circumstances when I return to the department. However, this was done after a screening of the files. The second option was chosen only for those cases where the screening indicated that further examination was not necessary. In this respect, DVZ pays particular attention to cases for which there is a suspicion of fraud, in which certain persons have a criminal record or in which the conditions for family reunification are not fulfilled or are doubtful. In any case, these dossiers will be dealt with thoroughly. So, Mr Van Langenhove, your examples are not appropriate. Claiming that residence documents are delivered without any investigation is not correct. However, the lack of staff that I immediately identified in December 2018 is correct. That's about all the asylum and migration services that were heavily understaffed. There was no recruitment reserve anywhere either. That was a real problem. From the beginning of last year, I started a catch-up operation in terms of commitments. In 2019, I started no less than 45 selections by Selor. In the meantime, many collaborators have been engaged. However, they still have to be trained and then engaged. There are still many replacements to be made. There are people who have left because they were released too quickly after their education and were too uncertain about their job. Given the limited labour market, the strict commitment procedures in place for the administration and the lack of P&O personnel, the latter cannot meet the peak of commitment. It is not easy to hire competent staff quickly. This is an important point. It will be up to the next federal government to work on faster engagement procedures and to give governments more flexibility to adapt more quickly to needs. Finally, there is, of course, the case law of the European Court of Justice which does not regard our legislation as being in conformity with the European rules in force, and precisely as regards the automatic declaration after a certain period. DVZ therefore calls for concrete proposals to resolve this contradiction in our legislation and to apply the judgment in practice as soon as possible. I will make a quick decision on this within the existing legal framework. Of course, there is also a need to amend the foreign law, and I will support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u36	Mrs De Block, I hope that the judgment will be applied in practice as soon as possible. However, the automatic granting of residence permits to, among others, criminal aliens has been taking place for years. You and your predecessor failed to give the Department of Foreign Affairs the necessary strength. Even worse, you and your predecessor failed to take the necessary measures to limit the influx of foreigners. If you want to reduce the workload at the Foreign Affairs Office, you will need to reduce the influx. Otherwise mopping with the tap will remain open. Jos, a 73-year-old man from Limburg, has been in a coma for his life since Monday after being attacked by an Afghan asylum seeker. Minor girls are sold in our cities and systematically abused and prostituted by migrant gangs. Shops are being looted and whole neighborhoods are now unsafe. Every day, the Flemish is confronted with the terrible consequences of your failing migration policy. Dear politicians, perhaps you should do something about this instead of hiding from your responsibility (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u37	You have exceeded twice the speaking time allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u38	Madam Secretary, you did indeed find a department in ruins, but you were previously Secretary of State at that department. During the period when Mr Francken was State Secretary, you participated in the government with Open Vld and did not mention the phasing out of the Foreign Affairs Office. Now you've been re-authorized for a year. I therefore sincerely hope that I no longer have to stand here on the agenda to raise the issue of bad administration or the abuses in the Foreign Affairs Office. We count on you to find a partner to make the Foreign Affairs Service the powerful tool that the population is entitled to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u39	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this subject is highly sensitive and certainly deserves a precise examination without slogans and sometimes nauseating shortcuts that I can hear in this House. This subject also hides sometimes very difficult human realities. The right to family reunification, in accordance with the conditions governing it, must be guaranteed. The right to respect for family life is at stake. A balance must, of course, be struck so as not to place the burden on the community of people who do not meet the conditions laid down by law. That is all the interest, Madam Minister, in ensuring at political level that an investigation can be carried out by the Office for Foreigners and in accordance with European case law. I urge you not to wait for a full-fledged government to take this case with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u40	Madam Secretary, for someone who is ill, for someone who has had an accident, every day is a struggle to get better, to heal. It is often also necessary to fight against insurance companies in order to obtain proper compensation. I'm really pissed when I read today that there are doctors in this country who are browsing our personal medical records to deliver those data to insurance companies that they're not entitled to. Madam Minister, I say this very clearly on behalf of my party: insurance doctors must keep their feet out of our personal medical records. It's not just a criminal offence, it's crapulous. I therefore welcome your initial reaction to this, because the law is very clear. You responded very clearly to that. You also said: 'I made sure that patients can know who is in their files today.' That is a good thing, but it is up to you to take responsibility and protect patients from such fraud. Madam Secretary, I want to know three things. Firstly, how are we going to ensure that privacy in the electronic database is even better protected? How can we punish people who take advantage of that tool? Secondly, the Data Protection Authority calls for stricter controls. How are we gonna do that? Thirdly, how are we going to let the patients know that they have a right to know who's in their files? How are we going to do that better than in the past?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, access to medical information in the course of the execution of insurance contracts is regulated by law around a number of principles that seem to be really flouted. First, the medical consultant cannot access the medical databanks. Second, the information must pass through with the consent of the insured person. Third, there can be no direct communication between the physician and the insurance consultant. Finally, professional secrecy and privacy must be respected and protected. As we have seen, in reality, these principles are circumvented. The De Morgen newspaper revealed, in an investigation, that it was far too easy, far too easy, for any doctor to enter your medical record directly. Insurance doctors who work in hospitals thus have free access. They consult the digital files of insured persons without their knowledge or authorization. There is a control system but it is not sufficiently effective. We even hear about suspicions of appropriate medical reports, be sure, after all, to the detriment of the insured, to the benefit of insurance. It's obviously very serious! Minister, how do you explain that such drifts are possible today? We need to work on the vulnerability of digital medical records. It's very important. There is a need to strengthen controls. What have you undertaken or are you planning to undertake? Your colleagues, Ministers of Consumer Affairs and Privacy, are also involved. What initiatives are you going to take to avoid these drifts in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u42	Mr President, Minister, the two previous speakers have already expressed their indignation at what happened to the electronic patient file. These are things we cannot accept. The electronic patient file is an important tool for modern medicine. It enables rapid access to important medical information from a patient and ensures that certain redundant studies can be avoided. There must of course be no limit to accessing these files. It's not unlimited either. On the one hand, the patient's consent is required unless that is impossible and, on the other hand, it can also only be in the context of the therapeutic relationship that the doctor has with the patient. We are therefore greatly displeased by the fact that these conditions have been violated by insurance doctors. Apparently, the abusers are in the hospital environment. All doctors have access to all patient records in a particular hospital, including insurance doctors who are also active as doctors in that hospital. If I have understood correctly, there is even talk of falsifying data in certain files. As has already been mentioned, a log is made of the data and the inspection, but the follow-up by the chief physician appears to be an unsolved matter. These abuses not only infringe privacy law, but are also deontologically unacceptable. As Liberals, we are committed to privacy and we are very hard at lifting these infringements, which we even dare to call abuse. I therefore have two specific questions. How can we prevent doctors from accessing files without permission and outside the therapeutic relationship with their patients? How can doctors who would violate this ban be sanctioned?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u43	Minister, the testimony of patients and the investigation in De Morgen today reveal worrying and unacceptable facts. Insurance doctors have always tried to access the patient's data. No, it's not new. But no, insurance doctors cannot have such access to, or use, patient data. Worse still, to hurt patients. Computerization of medical records can lead to the best, such as emergency patient care or multidisciplinary analysis. But it can also bring the worst, and that is what we see today. That's not new, minister. A few years ago, in 2016, exactly, the case of a patient was also highlighted in the news. We called you at that time. We were promised a working group within the government. Has this working group been set up? What were the conclusions of this group? There is, of course, a legal framework, but obviously it sometimes makes the best complicated, and obviously it allows the worst. Is the law properly calibrated? Are hospitals really able to control, given the thousands of consultations that take place on a daily basis in a hospital?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u44	Madam Minister, at the end of last year, due to a number of complaints that had entered the Flemish Patient Forum, some commotion arose about the use of the electronic patient file. These complaints raise a number of questions about the privacy enforcement of the platform used for the electronic patient files. While the platform's supplier minimizes and actually denies things, it turns out that in practice things are still going on. In fact, it turns out that about half the staff of a hospital have access to the e-files. Professor Frank Rademakers, Director of Medical Technology and Innovation of the KUL, states as follows: "This goes from the person you have registered, has arranged transportation to investigations, the radiologist who looks at your photos to all nurses and doctors who care and treat you." Not only does half the hospital have access to the e-files, but apparently the insurance companies, through their insurance doctors, also have access to the files. Worse still, in some cases, those doctors have even managed to modify medical records. I don't need to explain to you that that is an unlikely violation of the patient's privacy. In some cases, I would even dare to speak of fraud and forgery of writing. Madam Minister, I therefore have two short questions, but no less pertinent ones. What will you do about it and when will you do something about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u45	Mr President, it is indeed a real disgrace. I normally always answer in Parliament first, but I just couldn't resist saying that it's a sheer disgrace, abuse, fraud, call it what you want, and therefore unacceptable. We need digital support as an essential element if we are to further optimise our healthcare processes. If citizens make their voices heard and express their indignation at the fact that doctors who, according to law, are not allowed to look into their files, but have done so, it is thanks to the opportunity we have given to the citizens to check through the Personal Health Viewer who is all browsing their medical records. I'm glad we did. Now, however, we must go a step further. We must take into account the concerns and comments expressed by the citizens, as shown by the one lady, and tighten up our law and practice. Citizens' confidence in data confidentiality is crucial if we are to take further steps in digital support to improve our care. We convey that message to all our stakeholders, including the hospitals, who are very committed to digitisation. The structures and security measures surrounding electronic files are designed so that we have given control over what happens to his data to the patient himself, precisely in order to strengthen patient confidence. Any abuse that undermines trust is inadmissible, and I agree with that. It's an outrageous case. Computer systems are tools used to facilitate the sharing of medical data. However, very strict conditions and principles must be respected in order to achieve this. First, prior informed consent of the patient is required before data can be exchanged. Second, this data can only be shared for the purpose for which the patient has given his or her consent, i.e. as part of a health care delivery. Thirdly, data sharing must also be proportional. This means not only that data can only be exchanged with caregivers who need it as part of their benefits, but also that only relevant data can be consulted. A psychiatrist doesn't need access to the orthopaedic file, and vice versa. Finally, each hospital is required to ensure that these principles are respected in its computer systems by monitoring and controlling who has access to which medical records. And that's where it went wrong. In the meantime, different governance mechanisms have also been put in place, such as the Sectoral Information Security Committee and the Hospital Information Security Consultation. Hospitals are obliged to be members of them. Until recently, it was actually very difficult for the patient. How is it that the cited case, which dates back to 2010, is only now coming to light? The patient couldn't see who was going to search his file. It just had to be assumed that all health care providers respect the law. In most cases this is the case, but this was certainly not the case. We have explicitly defined the rights of patients in the Health Care Practice Quality Act, following a difficult discussion in the Health Committee. I will shorten my reply a little, Mr President, but I would like to say a few things. The case came out through the Personal Health Viewer, which we launched only in 2018. It is absolutely scandalous that such abuse is taking place. The legal framework is there, but it must be respected by all doctors. Whether it's a paper file or an electronic file, the abuse is a serious deontological problem. The doctors and the institutions must monitor the use. We are indeed in agreement with the Data Protection Authority to review the foundations. What are we giving permission for, how many times should it be renewed? We will come up with a number of measures in the coming weeks. We will also contact the hospitals concerned. There is certainly also a possibility to file a complaint with the Medical Association and the Data Protection Authority. Such practices cannot just be allowed to happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u46	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm pleased with your statement. After all, you know, like no other in the hemisphere, how important the relationship between doctor and patient is, and how important it is that trust is there. You're also announcing actions. I think that's very good. Whether it has to be regulated or through technology, that kind of fraud has to be stopped. The matter must lead to more control and to more punishment, in which, I repeat, two principles are very important to me. First of all, my personal data belongs to me, and my doctor doesn't have anything to do with it, nobody else. Secondly, my personal medical records are never or never merchandise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u47	Madam Minister, I think we do need a broad debate on access to medical data. What we have just seen is unacceptable. You're gonna find a doctor. You have an accident. You end up in court, contested by the insurance, the consideration. Finally, it was the doctor who examined you years ago that provided data to the insurance to challenge your rights and the fact that there is actually an involvement of your condition in the accident. This is also the case for bank-level loan applications and insurance refunds where there may also be serious potential conflicts of interest for patients and applicants. I will ask you to stop this information in stoemelings, neither seen nor known, without the knowledge of the patients. There is a need to tighten controls and re-examine our practices, without calling into question the use of medical data. The law is the law, and it must be applied to all!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u48	Madam Secretary, the patients deserve a guarantee that their medical records are in safe hands. I am therefore pleased that you share that concern. I would also like to thank you for the initiatives you have taken in the past, such as the Personal Health Viewer. What has been dealt with in the oral questions today does not minimize you, but defines you as a serious abuse. The electronic patient file is important for the patient and for public health in general. Therefore, patients should be able to maintain their confidence in these data. I would therefore like to thank you for the further steps you will take in ensuring the confidentiality of health data.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u49	Minister, we agree that what is happening is unacceptable. The way in which you leave it to the patients to do the police is problematic because many of them are unable to assume this role. I suggest that you remind all caregivers and insurance companies that bear a heavy responsibility in this matter. In addition, I propose that you help hospitals set up early detection because they cannot now control everything that is happening. Finally, I believe that we need to strengthen sanctions on the part of doctors, who could then be temporarily or permanently excluded from access to data, as well as on the part of insurance companies that have such practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you for the answer, but I still have one small thing to say. With a little sense of exaggeration, while the local swimming club and the local pigeon club hang monster fines over their heads when they fail to comply with some small aspect of the GDPR, our medical records are so to speak on the street. Understand who can understand. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of the Flemish interest, doctors who either implicitly sell patient data or abuse patient data must be dismissed from office. For us, companies that abuse the data must be severely fined. Only in this way can we eliminate these scandalous practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u51	Mr President, Minister, patient Koen is calling for an appointment today because he needs care. Koen is not only faced with a medical choice today, but also with a financial choice. When an appointment is made in a hospital and is willing to pay more, a private consultation is offered in a shorter period. The patient therefore has two choices: either he waits three months for an examination or pays 50 euros or a higher supplement to obtain an appointment via a private consultation with the same doctor, at a faster rate. It's two-speed care. How come this is still possible in our country? Are we in our country on our way to a medical sector with different classes? We all know that medical problems are common among vulnerable groups today. I therefore hope that you will stand alongside us to ensure that every patient will receive quality care at the same rates and at the same speed in all circumstances. Care can and should never depend on someone's wallet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u52	Thank you for your question, Mrs Farih. Every patient is indeed entitled to the same good quality of health care, but certainly also to the same accessibility. This certainly applies in the case to which you refer, in which the patient must appeal to a university hospital. The university hospitals receive special funding in our country, so that they can offer additional expertise and technological research and treatments. They also receive additional resources for the training of doctors. Therefore, accessibility must be the same for each patient. It is therefore unacceptable that there should be preferential treatment for patients who pay more, either in order to be able to consult more quickly, or in order to be able to consult the professor himself. That does not mean that we would be treated better, but it is simply not done. We must therefore ensure that this is monitored in every hospital and that such practices are prohibited by the hospital itself. We will certainly contact the hospitals concerned and say that this type of practice is not possible. What is still possible, of course, is to make appointments within a hospital where doctors are partially deconventional, but that must also be clear to the patient. If the patient joins a fully-conventioned doctor, he should also be given the same quality of care and accessibility. That is a rule that we do not deviate from. We shall act in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u53	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I still hear you're supporting the partial convention. In my view, it is very important that everyone is treated equally and at an equal price, that the care is always present and that the amount of the invoice is crystal clear at the end of the month.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u54	Mr.President, Minister, the concerns of the public are legitimate, after hearing about these famous infections that have occurred in Wuhan, China, since December 2019. Here the new 2019-nCoV coronavirus is called into question. Today, there are 544 infected people and 17 deaths in China. But China is not the only one concerned since neighbouring countries, but also Australia and the United States are now affected. It is established that this virus presents a risk of inter-human transmission and that a mutation of this virus could make it even more aggressive and transmissible between humans. The different countries are putting in place the necessary strategies. Belgium is obviously also concerned. The speed of reaction to this type of crisis is crucial because it is thanks to it that we can manage to control the situation. Minister, how do you inform caregivers? What is the control strategy that has been put in place at the country level to detect potential infections as soon as possible, whether at ports of entry (airports, ports, etc.)?), but also at the level of caregivers? A WHO meeting was held yesterday in Geneva. Was Belgium represented there? What conclusions were drawn on this occasion? What is the international but also European coordination – the latter is indispensable – set up?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u55	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, as soon as the Chinese authorities reported that a new coronavirus could cause a serious lung infection in humans, the Department of Public Health closely monitored the situation in our country. A risk assessment has already taken place and the risk management group has already met several times. Our authorities monitor the analyses, including the World Health Organization, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) and other bodies such as the American Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. A WHO emergency meeting did indeed take place yesterday. What conclusions were drawn on this occasion? In fact, no conclusion has yet been reached since it has been decided to extend that meeting, which is, moreover, still under way. A meeting of the Risk Management Group is scheduled this evening, should conclusions have been drawn in the meantime. Depending on the situation and if a possible expansion of the epidemic is to be observed, recommendations will be made in consultation with the health services of the Regions and Communities. These recommendations will be communicated to front-line doctors, hospitals and also to the authorities in charge of ports and airports, not to mention our diplomatic services. The situation in China, but also in other countries, is being monitored very carefully. The Chinese authorities are very transparent. They've already decrypted the genome of the virus. On this basis, a diagnostic test is available, including in our country. In conclusion, I think that at this stage there is no indication of the expansion of a health crisis in our country. We have to stay cool. As political leaders, we must not sow panic. There's no need to scare people unnecessarily. The case is being followed up and meetings are already planned, even though we do not know whether they can continue tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u56	Minister, this is not a matter of concern to the public, but of obtaining information that will help us to mark the situation and reassure everyone. As I said earlier, the speed of reaction is paramount. You are waiting for the WHO's conclusions: that's very good! Having said that, minister, if we want to be effective - if necessary - we must be able to build on collaboration with all the actors in the field, from the controls to the caregivers. To achieve this, perfect information is needed. Nothing is poorly organised, but, if I may say so, Madam Minister, I am struck by the fact that in France, as early as 14 January, individual information was sent to all caregivers. The operation repeated on 22 January, with an update, so that those concerned could detect any symptoms as soon as possible. That is why I would like to suggest that you activate the information procedure more vigorously. In this way, you can bet positively on all actors on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u57	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we know that you have a passion for building new, subsidised gas plants. It's known around here. We know that we will not need those power stations, that they are redundant plants that will blow up CO2 and that they will cost us a lot of money. I hear more and more critical noises about that aspect. In this story we fall from one surprise to another. When the CREG stated that this could cost EUR 14 billion to citizens and businesses, you referred to this fact as a political coup, a conspiracy. However, the figures were confirmed. Parliament has studied these issues in depth to see how this could be directed in the right direction. You did not wait for the discussions but sent half a file to Europe. A third time, we were surprised that funding was not even included in the dossier. That half of the file doesn't say "you daren't write that down." Who's gonna have to pay for that? However, we know very well that you are investigating three slopes, and that this will be paid for by the consumer, the consumer and the consumer. Since you do not, the CREG raises the alarm and takes up this role directly in Europe: defending the consumer's right. The CREG clearly states that these plants are expensive and unnecessary. The question then is what kind of minister you want to be, if we know that. This is a file on a dead end. Will you be the Minister who has the invoice in her name or will you be the Minister who dares to put the subsidy cannon aside and choose a good solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u58	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, electricity gives people light and warmth and makes our businesses and our economy spin. Our energy supply must be sustainable, affordable and reliable. That is why we have created the possibility of providing additional capacity through the mechanism called capacity remuneration mechanism, CRM. This should allow, if necessary, the start of new gas plants by 2025, in addition to and complementary to renewable energy. In view of the uncertain profitability of new investments, the aim is to convince investors by awarding long-term contracts. Mr Wollants has already referred to it. Many experts have already been heard about the question of what capacity we need, what technologies are possible and what subsidy mechanism can be applied. Our group supported the framework law in April 2019 so that this mechanism can be further developed. However, we are cool lovers of that system, because, frankly, if it can be avoided to set that mechanism in motion, that is undoubtedly the best solution. It is also a necessary fall-back scenario, which allows us to sit at the table in any other negotiations without tied hands. The CREG does indeed question the need for new plants and the size of the subsidy mechanism, if necessary. Today, there is a new element, namely the calculation of the impact of climate change, which we may be able to bring about after all. The calculation models used by Elijah are based on a 33-year history, while such calculations are made in other countries over a five-year period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u59	Mr Leysen, you must ask your question because you exceed the speaking time allocated to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u60	That is why we are talking about large sums. We have strategic reserves, namely 1.7 gigawatts, which are uneconomic, but which we would (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u61	Mr Leysen, you exceed your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall first address Mr Wollants. Mr Wollants, you say, with emphasis, that I have a passion for gas power plants. Defeat yourself completely! I don't have a passion for energy. I simply want to achieve and technically choose the best technical answers to technical questions. In addition, I remind you that I am a member of a government whose party was a partner until December 2018 and which had planned, for the release of nuclear power in 2025, according to the law, by a majority unchanged, to replace this power generation capacity with nuclear power by a capacity compensation mechanism. Your two parties, members of the government, supported it by voting in April 2019. You called him back. This has given rise to work on an accompanying committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u63	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u64	Maybe not you, actually... You supported it until December 2018 and then you did not follow our vote in April 2019. You're right to remind me. We have established a series of work in an accompanying committee led by my administration and in the presence of Elia and CREG. These were presented to you in committee and gave rise to these implementing orders. We sent them to Europe on 18 December 2019, not because it was a final work, but because it was a sufficiently successful job to receive from Europe the criticisms and questions we need to receive from it, knowing that we need to respect – since it is a support mechanism – the rules of European competition. One of these implementing orders actually concerns funding, on which our government in day-to-day affairs believes it cannot choose the funding path, since it is a highly political issue. I guess you'll agree with me. And, contrary to what you say, it is not, in all three cases, every time the consumer. The consumer will always have a share of financing. In one formula, it is the whole and in the other, it is not the whole, since the consumer, of course, also consumes electricity as well as companies and institutions. Europe will provide us with its observations and, on that basis, we will continue the work. So I agree with what you're saying. We will continue to work to ensure that the issue is as mature as possible at the time of the new government's constitution, to enable it to make a decision based on three fundamental elements that you recalled, namely security of supply, the obligation to reduce CO2 emissions and the fact that it is affordable for the consumer. These issues must always remain in the forefront of those who make decisions at the right time. For now, I'm still working on the specifications. It is not necessary for CREG to ask premature questions. The CREG asked questions and they were answered. Today it decides to continue asking questions, while it has participated in all this work. I will eventually agree with CREG if we remove the extreme scenarios, if we say that there are intangible reserves in neighbouring countries, if, like it, we consider that global warming will lead to milder winters. I cannot foresee it and I believe it is a mistake in its head to reason in this way between the global and the individual. The CREG gives its opinion, it's normal, and the next government will give its direction, which is normal too. In the meantime, I am preparing the dossier so that we can launch the first public procurements in 2021, knowing that we are making an assessment of the capacity overall and that we will then refine it in 2024. At that time, we will see what the necessary volumes are and what the price of gas and electricity will be. So there are many premature issues that need to be continued to work together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u65	Mr President, Minister, let us be clear: energy policy must be affordable, sustainable and secure. If nuclear power stations are to be closed down, the alternative must be affordable, sustainable and secure. I apologise, but transferring EUR 14 billion to businesses and families is not affordable. That's the slope we don't want to take. You say that not everything ends up with the consumer, but also with the companies. That doesn't reassure me! That still ensures that you will ensure that the invoice goes in that direction, while the whole of Parliament says that the energy bill is already too high today. I think we should deal with this issue seriously. If we can still rely on a number of nuclear power stations that can contribute to making the invoice affordable, why not? Why do we have to fix ourselves on expensive gas plants, which put EUR 14 billion in the pockets of energy producers? That amount must come from somewhere, Madam Minister, and we do not want this amount to be sought from consumers or from our companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u66	Mr President, Minister, there are still many open questions. We know that these are large sums of money. Poland, Italy and Ireland have already launched tenders. The amount involved was EUR 10 billion each time. It is therefore very important that we think carefully. It is important for both citizens and businesses that energy remains affordable. With us the prices are already high. We must ensure that we do not end up in the same story as we did with the green certificates where we had to establish afterwards that the account had to be transferred or charged to the budget. I am counting on you for constructive and informative cooperation with Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u67	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I come back from Vienna when I went with the first night train, with three of my colleagues Ecolo-Groen. It can be said that this first train was really welcomed with enthusiasm by the Belgian people. The first tickets left like rolls. Social media and the press have been flooded by the news. That is, if the Belgians were eager to have access to night trains again to travel. On the spot, in Vienna, we had a very interesting meeting with OBB, the Austrian transport company. They explained to us that the new Brussels-Vienna link is actually a pilot project supported financially by the Austrian government. They also presented us with a whole plan, a strategy to continue to develop this network. It's really great! It is clear that today, with the climate emergency that we face, the citizens are ready, and show us that every day. We cannot understand that Belgium does not have a real strategy for international rail travel. On Monday, at the opening ceremony of the first train, I heard your very enthusiastic comments about his return to Belgium. Minister, what do you intend to do in practice to amplify its development in the years to come? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u68	Dear colleague, there are two medium- and long-distance rail options: fast trains and night trains. The latter almost disappeared in Europe in the 1990s, for lack of passengers or rather because of the intermittent use. At the time, Belgium made the bet of high speed and made significant investments in TGV infrastructure, which successfully enabled Brussels and Belgium to be a few hours away by train, or even an hour away, from many European capitals and major cities. With SNCB, I am attentive to the development of the night train market, which is a possibility on conventional lines. SNCB continues to respond to requests for international partnership when requested. On the basis of a business case submitted by the applicant, SNCB is examining the file. If there is a commercial interest, it responds positively. This is the case in the case of the Vienna-Brussels night train. I would remind you that Nightjet is part of the international passenger transport market, which has been liberalized since 2010, and is part of SNCB's commercial activities. European legislation allows State subsidies to open access operators, provided that there is a specific legal basis and that State aid legislation is respected, subject to prior agreement by the European Commission. This legal basis does not currently exist for passenger traffic. It could be envisaged by a future government, like what has been done for the transport of goods, in agreement with the European authorities, of course, and provided that there are no appeals before the Court of Justice of operators in other modes, which is sometimes a little tricky. It would be preferable, at present, to wait for a first feedback on the success of the night trains currently in service before embarking on a large network of night trains. I was contacted the day before yesterday by the Swedish minister. His country intended to launch a night train between Stockholm and Brussels and, of course, we welcomed his request. We are therefore going to ask the European Commission, at a European Transport Council, in the near future, to what extent and for what period such a project could be considered as a pilot to support it at the outset. It should be noted that in full service, the Commission is totally opposed to financial support from the States in the system. Such support is currently prohibited. I have also spoken about this with the President of the European Parliament's Committee, Mrs Deli, to point out to her that some development was essential if the development of night trains was to be supported during the initial phase. Subsequently, the project will have to be financially supported by itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u69	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. High speed is indeed a good thing, but it is a complementary market to the night train, because the high-speed train allows longer distances to be travelled. As far as funding rules are concerned, I am surprised that you are no more curious than that to know how others do. I invite you to study the Austrian model. The Netherlands will also embark on the adventure, in partnership with Austria. This means that things are being done, at the level of national funding. It is important to move forward before waiting for the European Commission's response. Other things can be done to support the development of the night train, such as reducing the cost of train paths during the night, studying new international roads with strong potential and thanks to which we could return to the tracks of other night trains; and identifying the necessary adjustments. Today, you're talking about patience. The climate emergency is not waiting. I do not want Belgium to be the weak link in international rail mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u70	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u71	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 165: Els Van Hoof, Nahima Lanjri, Patrick Prévot, Catherine Fonck, Evita Willaert, Kathleen Depoorter, Caroline Taquin, Robby De Caluwé, Nawal Farih, Sarah Schlitz - 46: Patrick Prévot, Eliane Tillieux, Laurence Zanchetta, Marc Goblet, Ludivine Dedonder, Jean-Marc Delizée - 61: Catherine Fonck - 696: Evita Willaert, Sarah Schlitz, Jessika Soors, Marie-Colline Leroy, Barbara Creemers, Laurence H annoyance, Séverine de Laveleye, Simon Moutquin, Kim Buyst, Julie Song.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u72	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u73	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u74	Mrs Depoorter, you are also on my list of speakers for the general discussion, so I will give you the floor first. Colleagues Willaert, Schlitz, Taquin, Vindevoghel, De Caluwe, Jiroflée, Fonck, Prévot, Van Hoof, Rohonyi and Sneppe are also registered. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that matters are made easier if the names of the speakers are communicated to the Registrar prior to the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the N-VA Group will support the proposal to combat discrimination between men and women, in particular the prohibition of discrimination against paternity and co-motherhood. Any direct distinction based on motherhood, transsexuality and gender expression is already recognised as a form of gender discrimination. For us, the legislative proposal sends out a very good signal that men have an equal place in the family as women, and so they can take care responsibilities into the family. The new text also gives men the means to combat sexism and discrimination. Indeed, we fully support the recognition of paternity as a grounds for discrimination. However, our group remains convinced of this, and I have already stressed that in the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and the Working Environment, paternity leave, which has nothing to do with this but is often linked to it, is a right and not a duty. Through the bill we also want to regulate co-motherhood. If a distinction is made on the basis of co-motherhood, that is discrimination. The co-mothers will now have the necessary protection and the opportunity to take up their role as parents, just like the fathers. However, ladies and gentlemen, we have also clarified in committee that we do not opt for an exhaustive list. We will therefore abstain from voting on the amendments, because we do not want to undermine the law. We are convinced that any individual, any person in the role of mother, father, parent, can be represented, that any person can take up his or her role and that with the amendment of the law as we approve it today, we will not let anyone fall out of the boat. Mr Fonck, your amendment concerns adoption. We just received it. We shall also abstain on the vote. We have also given our reason for abstaining in committee. Adoption is regulated through the regions. We therefore believe that the regions have the right to adopt laws themselves. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make one final point. We worked well together on the bill. We've been working together for quite some time. I was very sorry about the discussion just now. The N-VA Group will therefore vote as democrats to represent the 1 million voters who voted for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Van Hoof, who has put forward this bill as a priority in the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities. That's her credit. I would also like to thank all my fellow Members for their good cooperation. Today, we add a number of protective criteria to the 2007 Gender Discrimination Act. It concerns, in particular, paternity, co-motherhood, medically assisted reproduction and, very importantly, breast-feeding. I have also seen that there are amendments to add other criteria. With these new protective criteria, we want to give those concerned the legal tools to combat and prosecute discrimination. We are also sending a very strong signal that discrimination based on these criteria is not tolerated by our society. The first criterion is fatherhood. In doing so, we would point out that we think it is perfectly normal that father's care should also be taken into account. Too often we see that men applying for paternity leave are hitting thresholds. Sometimes that goes a long way. There are cases where there have been threats of dismissal. Besides, we don't forget the co-mothers. They now have the same legal status as fathers and deserve the necessary protection. If fathers already experience social pressure and sexism if they want to take birth leave, that is all the more true for parental leave. That is why we empower the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men to make progress on discrimination against fathers and co-mothers. This also addresses a question from the evaluation committee on anti-discrimination laws. In addition, we meet several international obligations. Another criterion to be added, and on which we ourselves have tabled a text, is the criterion of breast-feeding. I would like to comment on the criticism that was there. Although we have worked well together, the violins are not entirely like-minded. The fear of an inflation of criteria exists that it would undermine the strong signal we want to give. I believe, however, that this answers a question from an authority in this area, in particular the Evaluation Committee of the anti-discrimination laws. We put all our faith in those experts. It's a question from the institute to do this. Those are people who speak with knowledge. They're not light about that. I think we should look intrinsically at those criteria. The argument of inflation of criteria does not stand. We just need to make sure that whoever needs protection can get it. We are seeing a positive evolution in our society in the area of breast-feeding. We see less taboos around there. We see more mommies starting breastfeeding. However, there are still too many stories of mommies talking about weird looks when they're breast-feeding, of mommies being asked to cover themselves when they're breast-feeding, of mommies being asked to quit or leave the restaurant when they're breast-feeding. This summer there was also the case of a mommy who was breast-feeding in her car. A cop acted aggressively towards her and threatened to fine public vice. He asked her to stop. That mommy was so intimidated. This story shows that there are still problems and taboos, that people sometimes misunderstand this, that it's just a mommy who wants to feed a baby. It shows that it is very important that this is the most normal thing in the world, but it also shows that there is still a lot of work to be done. We are sending out a strong signal that it is not taboo. We are also increasing the support for breastfeeding, which clearly indicates that discrimination in this area will not be tolerated. Medically assisted reproduction is another criterion added to the protective criteria of the gender law. Currently, mommies and potential daddies are not adequately protected by gender law and labour law and have to rely on articles relating to motherhood, pregnancy and fatherhood, but they are not yet pregnant or not yet a mother or father. Unfortunately, some of them will never be. It is therefore important to provide more legal clarity and direct protection. I am very proud that we have succeeded in adding these criteria to the gender law. In this way, we show the victims that we are helping them by breaking the existing taboos and by giving them concrete tools to prosecute and combat discrimination. I am very proud that we are now making explicit that breast feeding mommies have the right to go free with their baby in public space, that they have free access to services and goods, and that they can breast-feed their baby when the mommy, or usually the baby, deems it necessary. Finally, I am very pleased that this text also enhances equality between men and women. It is not only women who too often have to fight stereotype images in this society. I am thinking, for example, of the image of the caring mother. Many men are all too often confronted with stereotype imaging and expectations of what "manhood" would mean. This text is an important step forward in getting rid of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against discrimination is more than ever at the heart of our concerns, particularly those of the Socialist Party. This fight must of course affect all spheres of society, including the labour market. To trace a bit of parliamentary history, it will be recalled that the 2007 anti-discrimination laws protected nineteen criteria. In addition, they are destined to evolve according to the new needs of society. It was therefore appropriate to go further. That is why we are in this House to discuss this bill. The text which the Socialist Group had tabled at the beginning of the legislature made the following observation: maternity was protected, in particular through the Gender Act, but it was not for paternity and co-maternity. Based on the recommendations of the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, we decided to formally include in the law this protection of co-mothers – a somewhat barbaric term, but we did not find any other one – and also fathers. It is indeed indispensable and necessary for us to offer the opportunity for co-mothers and fathers to fully integrate themselves into the essential process of motherhood and to be able to take full measure of this task. We know how important this is, since the mental load is determined in the first days of maternity. We therefore wish these criteria to be protected. Very practically, this means that, from now on, if a majority of you support this text – as I hope – when an employer wants to put pressure on a father or co-mother wishing to take maternity or paternity leave, he will no longer be able to do so. In addition, this legislation will allow parents to be brought to justice or to refer the matter to the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men in order to assist them in filing their complaints. I would point out, however, that there was a cruel lack of figures, as often with these kinds of problems. However, a 2010 study by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men indicated that more than 10 per cent of fathers claimed to have been under pressure when applying for paternity leave. These pressures were of several kinds. These were sometimes promotions that were no longer accepted, or pressure from all colleagues. Unfortunately, it is still evident that fathers usually give up their paternity leave, in particular as a result of pressure from the employer. From now on, that will no longer be the case. Employees will no longer be asked to give up this fight. I thank all my colleagues who have contributed to this text, and in particular those who have spoken before me. I would also like to thank Mrs Van Hoof for her text and her active cooperation in this matter. We wanted to expand this text, following the negotiations and discussions we had in the committees. That is why a more comprehensive proposal is being presented to you today. Beyond the protection of co-maternity and paternity, we wanted to include breastfeeding and medically assisted procreation (MPA). Here, too, it is realized that fathers and mothers who return to the LDC process often find themselves faced with a long, often painful path, sometimes marked by failures. We therefore wanted to enable these men and women to return fully to the process without discrimination on the part of their employers. It seemed to us very important to protect them. The same applies to women who wish to breastfeed, whether by choice or by necessity. Without storytelling, I was talking yesterday to a mom whose son had been diagnosed with Autism Asperger. She had had to breastfeed her child for thirteen months. She was fortunate to have benefited at the time from an understanding employer. Otherwise, her child should have spent much longer in hospital, since he only accepted breastfeeding. I thank all my colleagues once again. These two criteria can already be protected. That's a good thing. We have had many discussions and there has been a broad consensus on this text. We discussed, in particular, with Mrs Van Hoof on the criterion of sexual characteristics. We have been sensitized by the voluntary sector. Mrs Van Hoof was prepared to include this in her text, but at the time of the discussion there was no majority to do so. We have therefore adopted the theory of small steps and accepted the broad consensus on the text. Today, therefore, I am tabling an amendment co-signed by Mrs Van Hoof because we have heard this and there that the Socialist Party had an ambiguous position on this text. That is not the case, and we wanted to reaffirm it in this amendment so that we could also include sexual characteristics in protected characters. I am thinking in particular of the intersex system that is not now part of the binary system that wants us to be a man or a woman. I think that today we are taking a step in the right direction to combat discrimination in the long and beautiful journey of parenting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u78	Madam President, no matter what others say about the Flemish interest, the Flemish interest is also clear against any form of discrimination. We will therefore support this bill, particularly as it enhances paternity, which contributes to the upgrading of our families, which we, as a family party, of course, support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our group welcomes the inclusion on the agenda of the plenary today of this bill to add paternity, co-maternity, breastfeeding and medically assisted procreation to the recognized grounds of discrimination. It is essential to combat discrimination against men and fathers as well. This discrimination is just as unacceptable as any other discrimination. This proposal is a response to the difficulties men may face when they wish to benefit from paternity leave. This protection logic also applies to co-maternity, which is covered by this proposal. Fathers and co-parents, like mothers, must be able to accommodate their children in the best possible conditions. In addition, this text further improves the protection of women by adding the criteria related to medically assisted reproductive treatment and breastfeeding. This is therefore a step forward, although it is obviously not the only measure to ensure that men and women have an equal place in the family. Indeed, the MR has several proposals to continue the fight against discrimination. A number of ways can contribute to this. We want to extend paternity leave and relax parental leave, while the conditions for access to the profession, education for equality between men and women from an early age, or the feminization and masculinisation of certain professions in order to combat the famous glass ceiling are essential issues on which much remains to be done. These various measures contribute – as we know – to a better balance of everyone in family life. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be longer to avoid repeating what has already been said. I therefore conclude by reaffirming that the MR Group will continue to initiate and support initiatives to combat all forms of discrimination and to ensure a better reconciliation between private and professional life.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u80	Madam President, in Japan we have the word patahara for 'intimidation, because one is a father'. Fortunately, it is not so bad in Belgium that we have to look for a separate word, fortunately Belgium is not Japan, but unfortunately this does not mean that fathers in Belgium do not have any problems. In Belgium, too, men are confronted with sexism. It has been said a few times that this is most common in the expression of negative reactions and social pressures that fathers experience when they want to take leave and care tasks for their children. It is a good thing that everyone today wants to send an important signal that Fathers are equal in the family and that it is only natural that we should be able to take care of them. It is therefore a good thing that we will recognise this discrimination basis within the gender law. Fair is fair and equal is equal, and dads shouldn't play tricks on the workplace. No reference has been made to figures yet. Today, 15% of fathers still do not take their paternity leave and 30% of fathers only partially record it. It is also true that 10% of fathers experienced difficulties when asking for paternity leave at work. There is even the threat of dismissal and lack of promotion, and the employer sometimes also expresses his dissatisfaction. We clearly do not want patahara in Belgium, because what is one ultimately with rights if they are not enforceable? By including paternity as a protected criterion in the gender law, we ensure that fathers can also contact the institute, that the institute can mediate and that compensation may follow in the event of dismissal. As an ultimum remedium, the institute can of course also pose itself as a bourgeois party. I am therefore very pleased that we can overcome this gap together. However, there have been many other gaps. It is important that we know that an evaluation of the anti-discrimination laws is under way today. We must wait for the next report to see how parenthood and adoption are involved. In this way we will be able to take a few further steps. I also think it is important for us to remove those two gaps that we want to incorporate into this legislative proposal by means of an amendment. Mr Willaert has already referred to the fact that it is unacceptable that women should still be prevented from breast-feeding in both restaurants and restaurants, as is the case recently for swimming pools. Labour law exists which allows for a reduction in working hours. One can cobble twice for half an hour. However, 20% of employers do not allow this. This is unacceptable. In the hospital people are forced to breast-feed because it is much better for the health and development of the baby, but once at work they should not take those breast-feeding breaks. That is unacceptable. We must therefore give these women legal remedies, because today they are not sufficiently protected by the gender law. In this way, they can sue for unequal treatment at the institute. The same applies to medically assisted reproduction. A child's wish is very beautiful and very precious. Any disadvantage in this area must be rejected. Everyone has the right to have children, but unfortunately one in six couples notes that there may be problems in this area. We should not prevent these couples, but we should just support them in pursuing their wish to have children. After all, it is a demanding process with blood collections, hormone injections, oocyte punctures and embryo re-implantation. In short, a demanding process which often demands absences from the woman concerned at work. She often has to be creative at work in order to be able to go for her child's wish. It is unacceptable for some employers to regard this as unlawful. The problem with the gender law is that these women are neither mother nor pregnant and therefore they are not covered by the relevant provisions. It is therefore a good thing to name this separately and to give these women sufficient legal protection and clarity in this way. Moreover, this also gives them greater visibility. After all, it is important not to take immediate action to punish them. In my view, the inclusion of these criteria of discrimination in the law is very sensitising. In this way, everyone becomes sensitive to it, including employers. Furthermore, fathers and mothers become aware of their rights in this area and can no longer be discriminated against. I am very pleased that we have done this work together. I think this is also appropriate for such a subject. I have had as many people signed with me as possible because I think it is important that there is broad support for this, not only in society, but also in Parliament. I would also like to thank you for your cooperation. We are doing important work for many fathers, mothers and wishing parents. I hope that we can finish this work well. I will also support an additional amendment. It is an amendment on intersex. This too is a gap. Gender expression and gender identity are in the law, but a group of people are neither man nor woman. It is important that they too should be able to complain if they are discriminated against. This is why we have retabled this amendment. We look forward to the next expert report on anti-discrimination. In this way we can see how we can continue our work on parenting. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u81	The PVDA will fully support the bill. The text came on the basis of a recommendation from the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, because there are many gaps in the law. We will also support the amendments which have been added. I myself have worked for a long time as a trade union representative in a large company and I can assure you that many trade union representatives often have to intercede for workers who cannot take their leave, especially fathers who cannot take their paternity leave. So I can quite rightly say that there is often pressure on employees in this regard. Many workers in a weak position, who, for example, work in a small business or with a temporary contract, are often pressured by their employer not to take paternity leave. I know someone who works in the garden sector and to whom the employer said that he should take paternity leave when it suits the employer. That doesn't make it easy. It is not easy for many executives either. I also experienced it often that there was a very strong culture in a company where it did not hear that a man took paternity leave, because it could restrict his career. Ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to tackle discrimination on the basis of paternity and achieve real equality between women and men, we must extend the regime and grant paternity leave automatically. It simply needs to be equated with maternity leave, as simple as that. By granting paternity leave automatically, like maternity leave, we create space, allowing men to take more care of their newborn daughter or son. One of the reasons for the gender pay gap is that women work much more part-time because they take care and cannot combine care with full-time work. Sweden's example shows that the extension of the scheme through the automatic granting of paternity leave reduces the pay gap and greatly reduces the number of part-time jobs among women. Again, if we want to promote real equality between women and men and address the pay gap, we must automatically grant paternity leave to men and equate it with maternity leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u82	Madam President, it must be clear that any discrimination is out of the question. That is why we have good anti-discrimination legislation in our country. It has been shown that it needs to be more explicit. Explaining is exactly what the bill wants to do. This also demonstrates the broad support for Mrs Van Hoof's proposal, which we have signed with great enthusiasm. The discussion took up a lot of time, because there was a discussion on the issues that really needed to be clarified. There has not been a single second of discussion about the fact that a father or mother should not be discriminated against in order to take paternity leave or maternity leave. However, the question arose as to whether the admission of paternity or co-mother leave should be compulsory. As far as we are concerned, there can be no question of that, but this matter, which was raised in the margins of the debate, is fortunately not the subject of the legislative proposal, on which we will be voting shortly and which our group has signed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u83	On the inclusion of breastfeeding leave and medically assisted reproduction as explicit criteria for non-discrimination, there was more discussion, not about intention, but about necessity, but consensus was also found on this. This was not the case with the question of whether family responsibilities should also be included. This simply goes too far, especially when a request for advice from the Institute for Equality between Women and Men, which insisted on its inclusion in the anti-discrimination law, showed that the concrete content of that term needed further investigation. It was therefore decided to park the concept as a possible criterion for the time being. In general, on behalf of my group, I would like to point out that we do have good, protective legislation against discrimination. Mrs Willaert has just said that a number of people are concerned about inflation on grounds of discrimination. We are genuinely concerned about this. By explicitly including many grounds for discrimination in the law, it may well be that what is not explicated would be excluded from the anti-discrimination law. We must also bear in mind that a broader framework is needed to combat discrimination than simply adding discrimination criteria to the law of 10 May 2007. There is also a need to raise awareness, including through the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. Two amendments were tabled by PS and CD&V to add the right to protection against discrimination against intersexuals, but who says they are not already covered? That is precisely why we are not talking about gender discrimination or gender identity, but about the broader concept of gender, so that we can grasp the whole range of men, women and all other forms. Moreover, Mrs Van Hoof's explanatory statement specifically states that there have been no legal proceedings on this matter. That doesn't surprise me. We therefore believe that an opinion should be sought on whether it is strictly necessary to explicitly include this discrimination in the law. If that proves to be the case, we will of course not oppose it. Mrs. Fonck tabled an amendment on adoption. In our opinion, this discussion is not yet ripe. We are still waiting for new reports from the Institute for Equality between Women and Men. That is why we will not support that amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the proposal before us, we introduce fatherhood as a basis for discrimination in the gender law, as well as co-motherhood. Our group would like to emphasise above all that everyone, of whatever gender and orientation, has the right to take responsibility in the family. Education and care for children are not only for mommies, but for everyone who is older and feels older and takes care and responsibility in that sense. Ten percent of daddies, however, still experience pressure from the employer when he takes paternity leave. Motherhood is still not fully understood by many employers. For our group, these two observations are unacceptable. We therefore fully support Mr Van Hoof's proposal. It takes a village to raise a child , zegt men in Afrika. It is time we found it at least normal in Belgium that every adult in a family should take responsibility for the children. With equal conviction, we have co-signed Mr Prévot's amendment, which states that intersex persons must also be protected from discrimination, which they may be victims of by virtue of their sexual characteristics. That would be unworthy of our society. I therefore call for this possible discrimination to be eliminated today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, many things have already been said on this subject which is of particular interest to us. This text had already been tabled under the previous legislature. We are pleased that we have been able to unite the different energies and the different groups in order to finally be able to make it a reality. I hear the reservations of some colleagues. Often, the reality is going well within companies. We must dare to recall this, but in a number of cases what is happening is unacceptable. Those who wish to be able to give time in a balanced way, in this form of reconciliation between work and family life, can sometimes be pointed out and therefore be discriminated against. As with almost all colleagues here, it was important for us to take into account the different family realities, the different choices of individuals and people, whatever these choices, whatever their orientations, their desires, their loves, their passions. This question, which I believe is legitimate and essential. We also welcome the work done by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men on this issue. I would like to speak on two specific points. The first concerns close caregivers who are not currently taken into account. I would therefore like to reiterate my appeal to Minister De Block's party, since the legislation was passed nine months ago. It should have entered into force on 1 October 2019, but the implementing orders have still not been taken. This is obviously the highest priority. However, it will also be necessary, through the Discrimination Act, to cover the situations of close caregivers. Although one can be a parent of a child with a severely disabled minor and be protected, there are also parents who care for a child with a severely disabled adult and who invest with him or her as close caregivers. They are not protected as well as those who take care of situations of extremely severe dependency of one of their parents. This aspect will remain to be completed in this anti-discrimination law. The second aspect I would like to highlight concerns adoption. Ms. Depoorter of the N-VA said it was a regional regulation. Yes, in part! Adoption depends both on the federal government and – indeed – on community decrees. However, we are here in a 2007 federal legislation aimed at combating discrimination, regardless of family forms. In many cases, adoptive parents are left behind. Adoptive families are considered to be separate families, while, admittedly, the journeys are difficult. In everyday life and in this period before being a parent, their journey is sometimes very close to that of parents who are familiar with medically assisted procreation procedures. I see you want to react but I propose to finish so that you can really do it at your ease. I heard what you were saying. To abstain is in any case not to oppose. That's it! Adoptive families are not separate families. There are few of them. But, ladies and gentlemen, you must acknowledge that these parents are considered half-mamans or half-papas in many laws. However, it is not a matter of adopting for a few weeks or months. Once you are a parent, you have the same rights, except at the time of adoption, to remind you. But, before being a parent, the journey is sometimes difficult because it is suddenly necessary to go abroad and this could not be anticipated. I say this again; this happens regularly very well on the employers' side, with positive collaboration between each other. But in a number of cases this is a real problem. I would therefore like to reiterate my plea to you that these future parents can enjoy the same rights, the same support as other parents and other family forms.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u86	Mrs Fonck, you say that adoptive parents are in a very fragile situation. That is, of course, the case and we believe that every individual has the same right to care for his or her child. Why should we abstain? Because we don't want to complicate it. In my speech, I put a very clear emphasis on 'each individual'. Adoption parents are part of this, but adoption and care for adoptive children remain a Flemish competence. I believe that there is absolutely no need in an anti-discrimination law to specify that an adoptive parent is also a parent. That is why we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u87	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group fully subscribes to the bill before our House today and welcomes the positive developments it has brought about. I thank the colleagues who have done a great job in committee and who have sought the common denominator between the various texts that were being debated. Our support for the text finally accepted is mainly justified for three reasons. First, because it responds to our progressive and emancipatory vision of our model of society, that is, a society in which gender equality is pursued and ensured through genuine mechanisms of protection. As Léon Gambetta said, what constitutes true democracy is not to recognize equals but really to make them. As has been repeated in the committee, it cannot be more accepted in the 21st century of discrimination against men for their role as fathers than discrimination against women for their role as mothers because any parent, regardless of sex, plays a key role in the good emotional and physical development of a child, but also because the father must have equal place with the mother in the family structure. It is for this reason that the question of the compulsory nature of paternity leave was raised in the course of the debates in committee, but I regret that. I regret this precisely because it is through the establishment of compulsory parental time for both parents that a better reconciliation between private and professional life will be achieved, the presence of women in the labour market will be strengthened and the equality of men and women in the upbringing of children will be strengthened. This is all the more essential as the equality of citizens in our society begins with their equality at the private and family level. I am pleased that comaternity is recognized as a criterion of discrimination. This is, after all, the logical follow-up that should be given to the law of May 5, 2014, which establishes filiation with respect to the co-parent in the same way as with respect to the father. As a result, the father, like the co-parent who is alleged to be discriminated against in her workplace, will finally be able to file a complaint. This is a significant step forward, especially when it is known that one in four reports of discrimination received by Unia relate to the field of employment. If we also support this text, it is because of the addition of breastfeeding to the list of discrimination criteria, thus fulfilling the will of the European Parliament expressed in its resolution of 14 March 2017. It aimed to fully implement the principle of equal treatment between women and men. The inclusion of this criterion will undoubtedly help to raise women's awareness of their rights, as well as to ensure the legal protection to which they are entitled. One cannot accept that a woman is discriminated against, insulted, harassed simply because she feeds her child. Finally, we welcome the addition of assisted reproduction to the criteria of discrimination, thus providing legal protection for women treated in the context of in vitro fertilisation – as has been recommended by some colleagues by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. I therefore welcome the fact that, in a context which is currently very difficult at the federal level, this House shows that it fully has its right of legislative initiative – in this case, to strengthen gender equality, but also to ensure better legal protection for all victims of discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many things have already been said. We welcome the adoption of these new criteria, which lead us towards a more equal society between men and women and more inclusive, where everyone can find their place, regardless of their choices or constraints. With regard to the criterion of anti-discrimination vis-à-vis co-mothers or fathers, they should be given more space with their children. It's positive for everyone. In this way, other models of masculinity will be disseminated in our society. As for breastfeeding, it is a long-standing struggle of environmentalists. We have taken over the torch that was carried by Muriel Gerkens, of which we are very pleased that the fight is coming to an end today. This subject remains a great taboo in our society. In fact, a UCL study revealed that, for more than 50% of Belgians, breastfeeding is still considered to be a sexual practice. I therefore believe that the law we are voting today will break this taboo. What is important for us is to guarantee women's freedom of choice and to ensure that they have their place everywhere in our society, in the public space and in all places. Whether they decide not to breastfeed or decide to breastfeed, and regardless of the age of the child, because late breastfeeding is also a higher criterion of discrimination than when it comes to a small baby. I won't be longer. I welcome the collective work that has been done in this Parliament to build a more progressive society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u89	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u90	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (165/8) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (165/8) The title has been amended by the committee to "proposal for a law amending the Act of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination between women and men in respect of the prohibition of discrimination in respect of paternity or comaternity, breastfeeding and medically assisted reproduction". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending the law of 10 May 2007 to combat discrimination between women and men as regards the prohibition of discrimination against paternity or co-motherhood, breast-feeding and medically assisted reproduction." The bill has two articles. The bill has 2 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u91	• 13 – Patrick Prévot cs (165/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u92	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u93	Sustained: the amendments and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u94	Article adopted by article: Article 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u95	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u96	By email dated January 23, 2020, the PS group reported that Mr.Emir Kir would no longer be part of the PS group. By e-mail dated 23 January 2020, the PS Group announced that Mr Emir Kir would no longer be part of the PS Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u97	By letter 9 January 2020, the Attorney General of the Brussels Court of Appeal provided documents in order to enable the Chamber to possibly authorize prosecution of one of our colleagues under article 59 of the Constitution. By letter of 9 January 2020, the Attorney General shall send documents to the Court of Appeal in Brussels to enable the Chamber to allow, in application of Article 59 of the Constitution, any prosecutions against one of our colleagues. In accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the documents were referred to the Prosecution Committee. In accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the documents were sent to the Commission for the Prosecutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u98	Pursuant to Article 1, 4° of the Law of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of election expenses incurred for the election of the House of Representatives, as well as on the financing and open accounting of political parties, I inform you that the Monitoring Committee was established on Tuesday, 21 January 2020. Pursuant to Article 1, 4° of the Law of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of electoral expenditure for the election of the Chamber of Representatives, the financing and open accounting of the political parties, I inform you that the Audit Board was set up on Tuesday 21 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, there was an initial request for urgency from the government on the Brexit (draft law introducing various transitional fiscal provisions as regards the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union, No. 948/1). However, there are no government members present. We discussed this yesterday in the Conference of Presidents. The draft law is qualified as a draft that can be dealt with in current cases, but the urgency did not seem obvious to me. Let's get back to the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u100	You have taken note of the list of proposals that have been requested for consideration in the last agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u101	Vote on Amendment No 14 by Catherine Fonck to Article 2. (165/11) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Catherine Fonck on Article 2. (165/11) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 89 Yes No. [[11]] No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Patrick Prévot cs to Article 2. (1659) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Patrick Prévot cs on Article 2. (1659) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[85]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 51 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot allow the final vote to continue today because of the acceptance of those two amendments. We can't vote on the amended bill until next week. Mrs Reuter, you will have to wait until next week to express your justification for the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-23-55-plenair-ip021x.u102	We must approve the agenda for the next sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the next sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, January 30, 2020 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 30 January 2020 at 2.15 p.m.
