ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u1	Minister, in full containment, ONDRAF began a public consultation on its highly radioactive waste landfill project. The public will be consulted from 15 April 2020 to 13 June 2020. A motion for a resolution on this subject is on Parliament's table and will be discussed tomorrow morning in the Committee on Energy. This is the perfect time to have your point of view because this public consultation poses at least two problems. From a legal point of view, there are many doubts surrounding this consultation. The Walloon, Brussels and Flemish governments have all decided to suspend the time limits for investigations and public consultations during the period of confinement. In order to guarantee the principle of legal certainty and equality, would it not be necessary to suspend the deadlines for such an important consultation at the federal level? It would be exciting if deadlines for building permits were suspended while those for highly radioactive waste could continue. From a more practical point of view, even if Belgians can easily respond via the Internet, how will they be able to actively inform themselves without publicity, without public meeting, without a panel of experts? Transparency and citizen participation are obviously being undermined. Minister, how do you intend to actively exercise your supervisory authority over ONDRAF to require a suspension, postponement or extension of public consultation in order to ensure a democratic debate in full transparency on such a serious and important matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u2	Mr Cogolati, first of all, I refer to the answer given on 15 April by Minister Marghem in the Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate to your same questions. As you know, ONDRAF has drawn up a proposal for a national policy on the long-term management of radioactive waste with high activity and/or long-lived packaging as part of its legal mandate. In concrete terms, the solution proposed at this stage is a geological storage system on Belgian territory. ONDRAF also proposes to set out what should be called the decision-making process, which will specify the modalities for consultation and intervention of all stakeholders at the later stages of the case. As Minister Marghem indicated in her response, the question of the feasibility of a possible extension of the consultation period will be addressed in an evolving context. By April 27, 2020, at noon, after 13 days of consultation of the 60 planned, ONDRAF had received 1,788 responses. During the same period, 17 responses were received by the organization during the 2010 public consultation under the Waste Plan. We find that within 13 days more than 105 times the number of responses received during the same period in 2010 were collected. Responses to date, after less than a quarter of the duration of the current consultation, already account for almost 67% of the total of those received in 2010, or 2,710 responses. On this basis, a significant exceedance of the 2010 participation is reasonably possible. After an initial analysis, it would appear that the responses received in 2020 are much more varied than those received in 2010, 85 of which were more or less exhaustive in the same text. It appears that the pandemic context has no negative effect on the public participation rate. I would like to point out that both Council Directive 2011/70/Euratom of 19 July 2011 and the latest reports from the European Commission to the Council and Parliament on the implementation of this Directive clearly state that geological storage is the only long-term solution for the management of high-level radioactive waste and/or long-term radioactive waste. In conclusion, on the basis of all these elements, it seems to me that there is no reason to require an extension of the time limit for consultation, neither from a legal point of view nor from a practical point of view. Nevertheless, I will continue to follow this issue in an evolving context with my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u3	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. Quite honestly, I don't really know a file that has consequences for such long periods. We are talking about hundreds of thousands of years or even a million years, according to ONDRAF. The budgets are also huge, since for the moment ENGIE has provided more than €7.5 billion for the management of highly radioactive waste. I am sorry, but we cannot ignore the current context, which is quite exceptional. Everyone's confined. Of course, you can participate on the Internet in the survey but there is absolutely no possibility of holding public meetings or expert panels. I find it a pity for such an important subject which has such long-term consequences that it must prevent any debate in this way. On the contrary, I think that we should make all the transparency here. That is why the resolution will be discussed tomorrow in the Committee on Energy so that I hope it can extend the duration of the public consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u4	Madam Minister, we all know that there has been a lot to do about the ban on promotion in supermarkets. On 18 March, the government announced that it would introduce a ban on the promotion of hamster behaviour: in order to avoid further hoarding, it decided to put all the promotions on hold. On 3 April, the ban was partly relaxed. This relaxation came under two conditions: promotions were now allowed when it comes to old promotions or already planned promotions. From studies that have been carried out on this subject, we find that the supermarket cart has become considerably more expensive, especially during that period. An average price increase of 2.6 to 4 % for traditional shop purchases is mentioned. In some cases there were even price increases of more than 10%, depending on the products in the shopping cart. The strange thing about the whole story is that we have not seen the same price increases in countries such as France and Germany: in France there was only an increase of 0.3% and in Germany of 0.6%. However, these neighbouring countries did not introduce a prohibition on promotion. We also note that hamster behaviour disappeared as quickly as we did in those countries. At the same time, we see that the supermarket chains have achieved a turnover increase of 21% compared to the same period last year. Madam Minister, the Flemish interest has always shown understanding for the necessary measures in the fight against COOVID-19. We have always been very constructive about this, but here we have to ask ourselves whether this measure was useful, especially when we compare it with our neighbouring countries which have not introduced such a ban and where the problem has also come under control. Those who checked their ticket outside were surprised, because the shopping cart was never so expensive. Following the relaxation on 3 April, some shops give a fixed discount of, for example, 5% on the cash ticket, but in general, the price level has still increased. That is perverse and painful, especially at times when our consumers' purchasing power is falling. Our residents are faced with income reductions and it is particularly regrettable that at the same time the purchases in the shop become more expensive. How do we explain this to people? It's true that it was busy in the shops at the time. There were chains of shops that were hard to restock, but because of the promotional ban we may have played too much into the hands of certain shops. It is strange that the government has decided to make consumers pay more in the supermarket, while we are discussing legislative proposals in committee, such as earlier, on consumer credit and in the coming weeks and months on many other measures. We are now a few weeks away, Madam Secretary. Do you still support your approach to avoiding hamster behavior with a promotional ban? How do you explain the link between the price increase and the lockdown, on the one hand, and the price increase and the promotional ban, on the other? How do you explain the differences with the neighbouring countries that I have just spoken about? In the meantime, there has been a relaxation, but when will the ban on promotion be finally lifted?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u5	Mr Van Lommel, for food, inflation is 3.63 %. For its calculation, the price comparison of the first week of April was also taken into account. As a result, inflation has been at the highest level since March 2016, when it was 3.43 %, but remains lower than in 2013 when the inflation rate for food even exceeded 5%. There are certain structural explanations for the increase, which cannot simply be attributed to the COOVID effect or to usury prices in the supermarket alone. We came from a period of low inflation for food. The inflation rate for food in 2019 was the lowest since 2014. Inflation is subject to several factors in the short term, including bad weather conditions in southern Europe, seasonal effects and promotions the year before. Now there was also the ban on discounts between 18 March and 2 or 3 April. Indeed, one of the reasons for the ban and a very important one was... you have referred to it.. hoarding. In addition, there was the signal from concerned customers and from the distribution sector itself that, in order to protect staff at checkouts, customer flows had to be limited and structured and additional customer flows avoided by discounts. Indeed, on 18 March, the National Security Council decided to intervene against discount measures. But all the actions planned before 18 March could be retained, because with the prospect of the Easter holiday there were already a lot of promotions for fresh food and surpluses of fresh food would arise if they were removed. And we certainly didn't want that food waste. The ban on discounts during those few weeks still has an effect on today's prices. For example, the price increases in the last week of March and the first week of April were significantly lower than in the previous weeks. I have also read the article in a particular newspaper, but of course I do not have a reference framework for product types or the deadline. For example, in that article some products on the ticket are compared with very large promotions from February. When a promotion of one plus one free is compared with the usual price afterwards, the price of that article has of course increased by percentage. With regard to prices, I can only build on data from inflation and our index, including parameters such as the consumer index and the health index. From that framework, I must indeed confirm an impact. We also see an impact in other countries. You have the figures you're quoting from the newspapers, but I don't blame you, because I've read them too. However, I compare it on the basis of European inflation rates, which will also arise in the case of other questions. Our comparison also extends beyond nutrition alone. We are actually doing well in comparison with other countries, particularly with energy prices, with an inflation rate of 0.4%, whereas in the Netherlands the figure is 0.8 % and in Germany it is 1.1 %. Let me also make the comparison for food, although over a longer period of time, we have inflation at 2.4 %, while France at 2 % is better, but Germany and the Netherlands are above 3%. I don't know where the numbers come from in the paper. Statistics can prove a lot of things. However, I agree with you that the time is right to take a further step. I've already made statements on that. In the supermarkets we have the situation well under control today. I have also already put forward a proposal to amend the Ministerial Decision, which will be discussed today and tomorrow after a decision to implement the National Security Council on Friday, to completely abolish the ban on discounts and also to delete it in the Ministerial Decision on food shops. As Minister responsible for the fight against poverty, I do not underestimate its impact: my mailbox is filled with messages from concerned citizens. I therefore hope that tomorrow the Council of Ministers will respond to the request for the ban on discounts to be removed from next week, as the time seems appropriate to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u6	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The price increase will indeed be due to several factors. You indicate a number of reasons. No matter how we turn it or turn it around, the ban on discounts has played a very important, decisive role in any case. I also understand, of course, that there were signals from the distribution sector to reduce customer flows. That may be so, but we also see very clearly that the first relaxations had a clear effect in favour of the consumer, which we recognise and which is certainly a good thing. If the ban is now completely abolished in the next step, everything will return to the old. The hamster behavior is also completely behind us and was only a phenomenon that played especially in the first days. Madam Minister, if I have understood correctly, the amendment of the ministerial decision will be discussed in the next few days, so that from next week onwards discounts can be fully accepted. I would like to thank you for that. We had prepared a motion of recommendation, but we will not table it, because you yourself indicate that promotions will apply again from next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u7	I see that Mr Wollants is present now. Mr Wollants, we have a habit of starting on time. So we were actually past your question, which I wanted to delete. However, for once I will be helpful, go back to the agenda and let your question be considered. However, be on time in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u8	Mr President, I was notified to the Committee on Energy and did not know that it would take so much time to go virtually from one committee room to another. Thank you for your generous attitude. Madam Secretary, my question concerns prices for dropped customers. Since the adjustment of the social tariff system, there have also been problems with the maximum prices for unprotected customers, customers who are therefore not supplied by a classic supplier. On the basis of a ministerial decision, issued at the time by former Minister Moerman, they end up with the distribution system operator. A formula has been laid down to ensure that these tariffs are not too low and focus on the average of prices, in order to ensure that there is no reason to end up specifically with that distribution system operator. In the past, the CREG has already taken decisions on how to calculate this formula and, in particular, the margin to be counted at prices. This has been corrected a number of times, but it still causes a number of strange consequences. For example, November prices are used to determine the rates for the first half of the year, from January to June, and May prices for the rest of the year. As a result, the high market prices of the winter remain valid during the first half of the year, at a time when these prices are very different for classic suppliers. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Are you prepared to evaluate that ministerial decision and move to quarterly or even monthly prices for this rate? Do you see other aspects of the Ministerial Decision that need to be evaluated? I am thinking in particular of the objective of aligning prices on average prices. Have you already consulted the regional ministers on these rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u9	Thank you, Mr Wollants. I'm gonna have to make it quick. Following the recent reform of the social tariffs for natural gas and electricity, I asked the CREG to give an opinion on the method of calculating the prices of the dropped customers, as you have so beautifully outlined. My question concerns in particular the frequency of calculation and the basic rate. The opinion of the CREG is expected in the next few weeks, and very soon, so we have been informed. It will then be submitted to the Council of Ministers and the Council of State. I hope that the new system will be in place from 1 July. There have indeed been talks with the regions. Recently, Flemish Minister for Energy Demir asked me the question you are asking me. I have informed her that we are fully adjusting the regulations here. As soon as the opinion of the CREG is received, we will involve it in its efforts to bring this new system into force from 1 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I am in the very special situation that I am allowed to inform the Minister of the opinion of the CREG which was formulated ten minutes ago in the Committee on Energy. They propose to go to quarterly prices and adjust the reference price so that the lowest rates are also taken into account when comparing the mix. In addition, they estimate that for gas and electricity this would together be worth EUR 60 per year. The only thing we need to keep in mind, in my view, is that determining that margin is one thing, but another is that I feel that the purchase price of energy is higher than the result of that formula for some distribution system operators today. Well, then we're not even a step closer, but I realize that this is not within your jurisdiction. Thank you in any case for the information provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u11	Mr Wollants, I have not yet received the opinion. This morning we sat down with the consultant before that. I'm gonna have to look into that. If you want, you can ask questions about this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u12	In the meantime, Mr Wollants knows the way to our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u13	The calculation of the social tariffs for natural gas and electricity was analysed in 2019, leading to the amendment introduced by the Ministerial Decision of 3 April 2020. That reform was aimed at countering price shocks. We discussed them extensively in committee. One of the elements was the introduction of a trimesterial calculation. Colleague Wollants just referred to it. The CREG will therefore calculate the following social rates in June and publish them before 15 June. These rates will be valid for a period of 3 months from 1 July. If the previous system had been followed, these rates would have started from 1 August for a period of six months. That is the change we have been making since 3 April.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u14	That's obvious. Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u15	Madam Minister, the monthly survey of the National Bank shows that the confidence indicator is close to the historical low. About 1 in 8 families are extremely vulnerable to the COOVID-19 crisis and have a loss of income of at least 10% and very little savings. These are worrying figures. The prospects of consumers in relation to the general economic situation and unemployment in Belgium have collapsed completely. The financial situation for the next 12 months is very worrying. In particular, workers expect large income losses. Madam Secretary, how do you interpret the figures? The workers are particularly concerned. You've taken a lot of measures. The situation also changes day after day. It may be very difficult to predict what is going to happen to consumers. Some measures which have not yet been extended may be extended in the future. Can you give me more information on that? For example, we get a lot of reports from the event sector, which looks at it with very little work by a summer and is very concerned about it. What slopes do you see to support consumers and purchasing power in the coming months?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u16	Madam Secretary, the corona crisis has reduced consumer confidence to the lowest level in 35 years. This is demonstrated by an indicator from the National Bank. The National Bank also raises a number of concerns: 55% of the non-affected population consists of people with a pension or benefit, students and housewives or self-employed persons, with workers in addition. It is important that especially those who are not affected by the corona crisis do not become afraid to consume and so do not postpone their purchases or start saving up their money. Madam Minister, you have already taken a number of initiatives to improve consumer confidence. Are you planning any initiatives to restore consumer confidence? Are proposals to stimulate consumption being examined in the Economic Risk Management Group? If so, what proposals can be implemented in the short term? If consumers start delaying purchases, this will also have a major impact on the self-employed, who will sell less. Certainly consumers who are not financially comfortable will delay large purchases rather. There may then be a greater gap between people who do and those who do not have financial difficulties. Will you take measures specifically for those who need it to stimulate or maintain consumption with them? If so, what measures will these be?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the National Bank of Belgium's monthly consumer survey indeed shows a significant reduction in consumer confidence by March 2020. The decrease in consumer confidence is inter alia related to the potential income loss of households. The consumer confidence indicator, which was clearly influenced by the spread of the coronavirus, is negative 9. I do not have the figures for the actual loss of income. Of course, I can give you the number of temporary unemployed. This figure gives an indication of the number of families currently suffering income losses. On 24 April 2020, that means the following. 133 000 companies have applied for temporary unemployment. There are 1.3 million employees in these companies. By March 2020, 865.987 workers received temporary unemployment benefits. The average premium is between 400 and 450 euros for nine days. So we are certainly already noticing an impact on income in March 2020, even though employees have only been temporarily unemployed for nine days. Only in April, when more of these 1.3 million workers have been temporarily unemployed and for a large part for several days, will the impact be fully clear. I understand that proposals will be discussed today or tomorrow in the Finance Committee to give additional purchasing power to those who are temporarily unemployed. We have also taken measures to this end. In fact, we have increased the rate of temporary unemployment benefit from 65% to 70% and, in addition, we have granted a supplement of EUR 5.63 per day, which gives some EUR 150 per month extra. This has already happened in addition to the measures taken by the Land governments. I am thinking of the energy intervention given by certain regions. It will now also be important to work with the Economic Risk Management Group on how to proceed in the coming period. For me, it was important to take a first set of measures, not only on measures relating to temporary unemployment, but also, for example, on the introduction of the voucher system for the travel and event sector, which some of us were not so happy about. In any case, this has enabled us to give oxygen to many sectors and to retain jobs, which is important for the purchasing power of many consumers. Furthermore, there was the mortgage credit measure and there would have been a long way to go with consumer credit measures, which would be a very good thing. Finally, the approximation of bankruptcy legislation is also being pursued. A series of measures have therefore already been taken. On 4 May there will be a first relaxation and on 11 May the shops will be reopened. It will be important to look at its effects. In the neighbouring countries where there is already some progress, consumer confidence is beginning to recover very carefully. We hear figures of 20% and 40% for the businesses that are starting up again in neighbouring countries, because consumers are not immediately in the right mood to spend large sums. We will have to monitor the effects in the coming weeks and then take additional measures in consultation with various experts. It is too early to assess the impact of the relaxations on 4 and 11 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u18	Madam Minister, the figures for the month of April will be effective and we are already holding our hearts in that regard. You have talked for a long time about the technical unemployed, a very important group which is now suffering from loss of income. Hopefully re-launching a number of companies will ensure that these people can count on a full income again. After that, however, it will also be very important to support a number of other groups, including freelancers, working students and the self-employed. They may suffer even more income losses over an even longer period. Targeted measures must also be taken for them. However, I fully understand the changing situation and the fact that it is difficult to anticipate it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u19	Madam Minister, measures have been taken at all political levels and I personally thank you for your hard work. We must keep a close eye on this, but it is hopeful that consumer confidence in neighbouring countries will begin to grow gradually. That gives us good courage for the evolution in Belgium. The next few weeks will be crucial and I am sure you will take the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u20	How many infringements could be identified and what sanctions were attached to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u21	Mr President, Minister, on March 30, 2020, Test Achats launched a platform to enable consumers to report any scams they might have encountered during this period of health crisis. Unfortunately, in three weeks, they have received more than 200 reports and more than half of them concern price increases for protective equipment (hydro-alcoholic masks and gels), foodstuffs and essential goods. It is obviously worrying to see that some companies, online shops take advantage of consumer anxiety at this very difficult time to sell medical devices and protective equipment at excessive prices. Since these are apparently unfair prices for strategic products in times of health crisis, consumers are faced with "unfair and inflationary commercial practices". Minister, what means does the FPS Economy have to control these abusive prices? Would there already be statistics on market developments for these products? We are also aware that the Economic Inspectorate has been informed of abusive prices for the sale of disinfectant masks and gels and that minutes have been prepared. Could you please tell me how many minutes were drawn up after 13 March 2020? Finally, by the time we start deconfining and when the use of masks will be strongly recommended, we will certainly again see an increasing demand for these products. The issue is therefore becoming crucial. Minister, how do you intend to limit price increases for protective equipment and strategic products (hydro-alcoholic gel, disinfectant gel, etc.) in order to avoid speculation about what has become essential goods? Minister, I know the importance you attach to consumer protection. Such a measure would provide an additional and strengthened guarantee. Several other EU Member States, including Italy, Spain and Portugal, have taken steps in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the FPS Economy provides a weekly report on price development to the Economic Risk Management Group. These reports effectively show, as mentioned in Mr Van Lommel's answer to the question, an increase in retail prices of food products, which, however, is much less pronounced than media coverage. Moreover, this upward price development is already taking place and is not directly linked to COOVID-19, although COOVID-19 has a clear impact. In addition to these weekly reports, there are monthly inflation rates published at detailed level by Statbel on which the quarterly reports of the Prize Observatory are based. The first quarterly report of the Prize Observatory will examine in detail price developments by product group. For the food group, products such as seafood, fish and vegetables have seen a sharp rise in prices over the last few weeks. However, these product categories are often subject to marked price fluctuations which are often the result of climatic conditions with an impact on supply. In order to tackle any obvious price increases, we continue to insist on the removal of the total ban on discounts which has been in force since the Ministerial Decision of 18 March. It is also important that food and non-alcoholic beverages are only one important part of the household budget. Other expenditures, such as energy prices, have fallen sharply since the corona crisis. In order to benefit from lower prices in network sectors, such as energy and telecommunications, the Easy Switch principle allows consumers to easily switch to a cheaper operator. The harmonised inflation rates for March, published on 17 April, show an inflation rate of 0.4% for Belgium. This is in line with the figures in neighbouring countries. Inflation in Germany is 1.3 % in France 0.8 % and in the Netherlands 1.1 %. Specifically for food and non-alcoholic beverages, inflation in Belgium was 2.4 % in March, compared with 3.6 % in Germany, 2% in France and 3.1 % in the Netherlands. It should also be noted that average inflation for the last 12 months in Belgium was significantly lower by 0.8 % than in neighbouring countries. This average naturally absorbs short-term fluctuations. In order to tackle any obvious price increases, I have the tools available to me about the Price Observatory, in order to intervene in any failure to operate on the market for a particular product or service. In this context, the Economic Inspectorate received 146 notifications through the hotline for price increases and price misdirection. The top 5 of these notifications consists of usury and exuberant prices with 87 notifications, price misdirection due to the quality and properties of a product with 23 notifications, premiums given following the corona crisis with 17 notifications, price misdirection in general with 12 notifications and alleged miracles with 5 notifications. As regards your question about the notifications received, I can inform you that 70 checks have been carried out. Of these, 12 files gave rise to the preparation of a report, 5 minutes of warning and 9 minutes of tout court. Of these 9 minutes, 2 led to the transaction procedure and 7 were forwarded to the court. It is therefore also important to continue to report to the SPF Economy contact points concrete practices of counterfeits, scams or abnormal prices. With regard to oral masks and hydro-alcoholic gels, last month I issued a ministerial order to channel the sale of many medical devices, biocides and personal protective equipment. The aim is first of all to ensure that hospitals and health professionals who come into contact with contaminated or potentially contaminated persons have the necessary resources in mind. Meanwhile, in Belgium, alcohol production has been increased and the risk of a shortage of hydro-alcoholic gel no longer exists. The gels were therefore removed from the list of products concerned. It is therefore unlikely that abnormal prices will continue to be applied in the market for these gels. I do not have objective numerical data that would indicate that, at present, abnormal gains would be made structurally with the sale of oral masks. As already stated, the Economic Inspectorate can act and will act against exuberant prices if they are found. With regard to the suggestion - and I am replying to Mrs Dedonder - to impose maximum prices for oral masks and protective means, we cannot lose sight of the fact that most of these products are imported from abroad and that I cannot have control over the prices charged by foreign producers. We also need to ensure that some of the government's actions do not result in our market no longer being provided. Finally, if the SPF Qualité et Sécurité or the Economic Inspectorate finds a forgery, the latter is immediately seized so that it is no longer on the market. Here too, I have no control over the counterfeiting of foreign producers who offer their products via foreign webshops. France, for example, had to adjust the maximum prices because it was no longer supplied with mouth masks. We must, of course, ensure that the supply of our market continues to run.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u23	Madam Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive answer and for showing all the figures. From this we can once again deduce that the coverage in the newspapers was harrowing more than the effective figures. In itself, it's a good thing this isn't as bad as we thought. You mentioned earlier that you will present a dossier to the Council of Ministers tomorrow to remove the ban on discounts. I can only hope that you will come forward with positive news tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u24	Madam Minister, it is indeed necessary to juggle the possibility of supply with the fact that the citizen must not be in a situation where some would take advantage of the crisis to increase prices in an exaggerated way. I note from your answer that we must not hesitate to give them the information and that we must continue to report to the FPS Economy any difficulties. I still encourage you to discuss with your colleagues from other European countries what measures they have taken, and whether there are any best practices that could be used in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u25	Madam Minister, thanks to the Ministerial Decision of 19 March 2020, any person who is forced to cancel his journey can count on a refund. The travel organisation can give a voucher to book within the year. If the consumer does not do so within the year, he can still count on a refund of the outstanding amount. You have already explained this scheme in detail here, but I still had a number of questions about it. Madam Minister, can this decision also cover package travel that has already been cancelled as a result of the coronavirus before 20 March 2020? I suppose there were a lot of them anyway. If the measure cannot be applied retroactively, are passengers in any event obliged to apply for a voucher? Or what system could they fall back on? The ministerial decision says that package travel can be cancelled in a period of three months, with the offer of the voucher. Does this mean that it is only possible to cancel package travel which is, in principle, also carried out during that period, or is it also about package travel which is being carried out after this period, but which is already being cancelled by the travel organisation? I can imagine that the measure will be extended. For example, several airlines have been canceling travel for up to a year, or even a little longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u26	Thank you, Mrs Depraetere. It's true, of course. The decision of 19 March which you refer to applies to package travel, not to the sale of airline tickets. We have to make that important distinction here. The Ministerial Decision applies to package travel cancelled on account of the corona measures and for which reimbursement had not yet been made on the date of entry into force of the Decision. That's the start. If that is the case, the tour operator has the right to award a voucher instead of paying it back immediately. From the scheduled date comes the voucher system, for which one is in the old scheme. That's obvious. The decision currently applies for a period of three months and applies to the cancellations which took place during that period due to corona. This can thus possibly also be done for travel at a later time, when it is clear that they will not continue for reasons of corona. As regards the reimbursement of airline tickets, the European Regulation 261/2004 determines the rights of the air passenger. This Regulation shall be followed by the Minister for Mobility. It provides that when a flight is cancelled, if no replacement flight is proposed and accepted by the passenger, there is a right to reimbursement. As a result of the coronapandemic, most airlines have too limited liquid resources to make those refunds and therefore award vouchers. A number of Member States have urged the European Commission to adapt the regulation so that the practice of vouchers would be legally possible. Our country supports that question. We have written this together with the Minister for Mobility and addressed to the European Commissioner for Transport. Mrs Depraetere, out of contact with customers and especially the travel sector, I feel that this situation has shifted away from package travel. Those who had paid for a package trip in the short term were already reimbursed with a voucher or in the other system. It is only about longer-term advances. We are talking about situations where in the longer term there has been no commitment to hotels and other things, but already for airline tickets. Suppose one would go to South Africa in November and have already fixed the ticket, but not the other bookings yet. This is becoming a problem because many airlines are not making it clear. They even recommend many travel agencies to put themselves on a list, after which they will get some clarity. Will it work with a voucher system or will a refund follow? That is the question, although the legislation today still imposes on airlines a refund of airline tickets. That is a very important problem today. That is why I and my colleague, Mr Bellot, have taken an initiative so that Europe has to clarify this very quickly. When I read in the newspapers every day how difficult a lot of European airlines are, I fear that they will be reimbursed. At least give us the security via voucher systems, so that the customer and the travel sector get clarity. That is the biggest question at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u27	Madam Minister, the voucher system is a good solution, both for travel organisations and for consumers. However, it is important that, when the consumer has absolutely no intention of booking a flight or a trip, he or she has the possibility of reimbursement. On the website of Brussels Airlines, a company that will receive a lot of support in the coming months, it is almost impossible to apply for a refund. The application is simply untraceable. If you find a link to a form, you will be redirected to a voucher system. So there is no way to get a refund. Consumer friendliness could therefore be improved, especially for a company which will soon be able to count on substantial State aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u28	Mr President, Minister, like the vouchers, a system has been developed for the event sector and the live music sector. Under strict conditions you can get a voucher for purchased festival tickets via this system and, if not used, a refund can still be obtained. In this way, both consumers are protected and the impact on the organisers is limited. I think that is a very good measure. For example, Rock Werchter already informed the consumer that the full amount of the tickets for 2020 will be available on ticketmaster.be from 15 September. The credit can then be used freely and when organising a new festival the ticket holders can have access to an exclusive presale for the 2021 edition. That seems to me to be a good solution for the consumer. Unlike the credit for the tickets themselves, however, there is no refund for the purchased beverage and food vouchers. These are costs most organizers probably haven't made today, especially when it comes to food. As these are often multi-day festivals, many consumers buy these receipts in large numbers. It is sometimes about hundreds of euros, especially because they are often offered at a lower rate when ordering the tickets in advance. Madam Secretary, I have two questions on this matter. Firstly, will there also be a refund scheme for food and beverage receipts? Secondly, for example via TicketSwap tickets can be purchased for an event or a festival. This is a website that the consumer considers to be fairly reliable as it is widely used. However, the refund via TicketSwap is not so obvious. TicketSwap states that it only pays back to the original buyer and not to anyone who bought the ticket via TicketSwap. However, it is very difficult to track down the original buyer, which means that the consumer who bought a ticket via the platform is less protected. Are you aware of this problem? Can anything be done about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u29	Mrs Depraetere, when an event is cancelled by an organizer who invokes force majeure, that organizer is in principle free of his commitments. At the same time, the counterparty is also freed from its commitments, namely payment. In principle, the organiser must pay back, but in order to support the event sector, we issued the Ministerial Decision of 19 March 2020. This deals with the provision of a voucher instead of the refund of the ticket. Today's decision concerns only the arrangements for access tickets. The offer of other things, such as food and drink vouchers, is not covered here. That seems too far-reaching to me today, although I understand that they have been bought. I understand that next year they will be able to be used at many of these events. However, I am not going to go along with that, because we are going to do a preliminaries on many other matters. With regard to your second question, it is normal that the organizer only knows the original buyer. As regards TicketSwap, there are also specific contractual provisions for the seller using the platform. These require him to refund the buyer of the ticket in case of cancellation of the event. The Economic Inspectorate has informed me that it has not yet received any reports on this matter. I also had a contact with Tomorrowland myself, because I had heard on the radio that Tomorrowland would work with a system of switching tickets itself. That means that if one could not go next year, one could offer his ticket to someone else on a platform, knowing that there are queues for tickets. Perhaps anyone who wants to lose their ticket will find a new buyer, but if not, Tomorrowland will still have an obligation to pay back the ticket. I pointed that out to them. It is good that such initiatives are taken, but the consumer remains protected: if he cannot be present at the event and he has a valid reason for doing so, then there must always be a refund at the end of the period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u30	Madam Minister, it is a bit the same as the previous question: we expect a little more responsibility because of the organizers. Of course, it is obvious that they are trying to work with vouchers as much as possible, but purchases of drinks and food stamps have not yet taken place, so it would be even more customer-friendly if they could repay those costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u31	Madam Minister, anyone who has looked closely at the Brussels Airlines website in recent weeks and beyond will have seen that it is perfectly possible to book airline tickets on a number of questionable dates. We can see that Brussels Airlines has repeatedly set a date in which it is intended to be able to provide flights again. They did that in April. Eventually the communication came that there would be another flight on May 15, 2020. Now it's shifted to June 1st. For example, today it is perfectly possible to buy a plane ticket for June 1st to Tenerife for 150 euros. Only we all know very well that the chances of that flight taking place will be very low. Brussels Airlines communicates far too late and flawed that flights do not continue. But that's not a problem, they say, one can use that money later for a new flight. On top of that, the traveller receives a cheque of 50 euros. This is a very strange way of working and a strange form of dealing with commercial practices. But that's not the only thing. False expectations are also created here. The consumer hopes to be able to go abroad. Then it is very painful when communication is not in line with what the National Security Council communicates. Are the data that Brussels Airlines communicates related to the opening of airspace for passenger flights accurate? If so, which flights would it be about? Then why wasn't this communicated earlier? Will conditions also be imposed if airspace is reopened for passengers? What conditions will that be? How do you, as a minister, look at these rather questionable practices of Brussels Airlines to attract consumers and pay for flights in this way, while they know very well in advance that the flights will not take place. Do you intend to take initiatives in this area, or have you already taken the necessary initiatives in this area? How do you look at the question of state aid that they have submitted? I know things are still under investigation. On the other hand, they are greedy with 50 euro vouchers to bring in financial resources in the short term. Surely that is contradictory when we place these two elements opposite each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u32	Mr Van Lommel, your first, second and fourth questions are addressed to the Minister for Mobility. As far as State aid is concerned, that applies to Mr De Croo. I can only answer the consumer's door that you quote in your question. It is true that the ban on misleading commercial practices must be respected at all times. In order to avoid deception, consumers need to be properly and fully informed in the first place. Brussels Airlines states on its website that flights will not resume before 15 May. The FAQ also states that the decision to resume the flight schedule depends on how the current situation evolves worldwide. This date is also partly in line with the ministerial decision taken by the government. It will also be important to consider in the coming period whether this ministerial decision should be amended after 15 May, in order to clarify to the consumer as soon as possible when this would be possible at the earliest. What is on the website today, which I have in mind here, seems to me to be correct information and not misleading communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u33	Madam Minister, I think that the blame lies with the government. We all know very well that it will not be possible to fly in the very short term. After all, there are still a lot of uncertainties about the exit strategy. That is twice as bad for the consumer who is the victim of this. He's booking a flight today, for example before June 1, which is not a problem right now. People have that hope or even get that false hope. At the end of the ride everyone here around the table knows that that flight will not take place. Well, that's a real shame. People don't get their money back at the time. A travel cheque of 50 euros is given on top as compensation. I stand by it: if it is not an act of Brussels Airlines, at least it is lateness of the government and a lack of determination to come up with clear communication and action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u34	Mr Van Lommel, we are not alone as a country. I know you like to blame us, but there are also neighbouring countries. When neighbouring countries re-open borders and their airspace and allow flights to be re-opened, this information is quite essential in making the decision. So we are now trying to see as quickly as possible how we can offer a new perspective and communicate the date. I repeat that there is consultation at European level to give a new date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u35	Minister, on March 23, you issued a ministerial order authorizing only pharmacies to sell FFP2 and FFP3 masks and other protective products related to the VOCID-19 pandemic. However, requests were made to the Council of State against this text. According to its initiators, the ministerial decree prohibiting the sale of masks in conventional shops and supermarkets is illegal. According to them, the minister should have submitted the text to the legislative section of the Council of State in advance, but this was not done. Minister, my questions are very simple. I asked a more or less similar question on the health aspect to your colleague Maggie De Block yesterday. As far as you're concerned, here are my questions. While healthcare staff and all front-line people are already struggling to obtain masks, such as FFP2 and FFP3, what does the government intend to do if the petition against your ministerial order is admissible, which would de facto allow the sale of FFP2 and FFP3 masks in supermarkets, and therefore to all Lambda citizens? Have any solutions been considered? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u36	Mr Prévot, to date, I have not yet been informed of a request for the annulment of the ministerial decree of 23 March 2020 regulating, among other things, the sale of certain oral masks. The SPF Economy is also not aware of a request. I have also read this information in an article of the Last Hour, but we are not aware of a request for cancellation. As long as the Council of State does not declare a cancellation or suspension, the decree shall be in force. Pharmacists are health care professionals and, in my opinion, are well placed to judge the situation of their patients, and this justifies the provision of oral masks – for example, the fact that a family member is contaminated. There have already been a number of surveys of officials. No infringement of the provisions of the decree cited has been found. But of course, the Economic Inspectorate continues to monitor the situation closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u37	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to see that, contrary to what I had read in the press, there is currently no request for annulment and that there is therefore no suspension from your ministerial order. As far as pharmacists are concerned, I said to Minister De Block yesterday, I know that checks are being carried out, but we must be careful because the priority is to provide these FFP2, FFP3 and even surgical masks to the healthcare staff. Unfortunately, this is not the case in some pharmacies, since it is evident – and I saw it yesterday and this morning again – that some pharmacies sometimes apologies for the sale of masks, especially FFP2, for the Lambda citizen. It is obviously a total ineptitude that people who are neither in the medical sector nor in the front line walk around with FFP2 masks to go shopping. Let us therefore remain consistent and keep vigilant in this respect! This is also a request from the Belgian Pharmacists Association.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u38	Madam Secretary, shops are having a very difficult time in this period of corona. They are obligatory closed and therefore have no or hardly any turnover. In order to reduce losses, many shops and companies quickly focus on e-commerce and try to sell their products through a web shop. However, webshops and internet sales in general have to comply with a lot of European and Belgian legislation on, among other things, sales, cookies and privacy. It is therefore important that the criteria and modalities to be met are clear and easy to find. That's where the shoe pinches. I went to the website of the FPS Economy myself and they find a link'selling over the Internet', but if you click on it you will get the message 'page not found'. As a result, entrepreneurs who want to focus on e-commerce and webshops, since this is now the only way for them to generate some sales, are faced with fines because some parts of their webshop are incompatible with the applicable legislation. I have a few very specific questions about this. Firstly, do you agree that information on legislation relating to internet sales should be clear and easy to find? Secondly, do you agree that it does not make sense to fine practices for which there is hardly any information available? Thirdly, do you agree that, just now, in this corona period in which shops should physically close, the government should provide information on internet sales and, for example, actively communicate a roadmap on how to sell online? Fourthly, how does the Economic Inspectorate carry out its checks? Is there always being sanctioned from the first breach? Is it not appropriate for the inspection services, especially in a first phase, to be more advisory and supportive and only in spite of the company concerned to comply with the legislation in force, to adopt a sanctioning policy? Finally, many shops are looking forward to the publication of the ministerial decision to implement last Friday's decisions by the National Security Council. There still isn't. When will this be published in the Belgian Official Journal so that everyone can take the necessary measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u39	Mrs. Van Bossuyt, you weren't always very clear. I think it's better to use a headset. The Minister didn't quite understand your last question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u40	Last week at the National Security Council it was decided that from 4 May the companies and the stores will be allowed to open again from 11 May. The Ministerial Decree has not yet been published in the Belgian Official Journal. A lot of people want to settle down so they can open up. When will the Ministerial Decision be published?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u41	Mrs Van Bossuyt, your last question was not in your written version. I will give you a brief answer to that. I'm surprised you say there's no information on the FPS Economy website about anything related to e-commerce. I just see here everything I need to know as a trader. Maybe the search term isn't that simple? It's not e-commerce. It's electronic commerce. When you type "electronic commerce" on the website of the FPS Economy, several sub-headings appear, such as advertising and sales via e-commerce. If you click on "sales via e-commerce," you will find everything. This sub-heading includes the legislation, which should be taken into account in the payment transactions, the acceptance of means of payment, the delivery agreement, all information on the online settlement of disputes and what needs to be done with them. The full legislation on e-commerce is therefore covered by that sub-heading. I have to admit that "electronic commerce" is not the logical concept. Perhaps when typing "e-commerce" one should get on that page faster. However, the information is on it. In addition, there is also a didactic site, infoshopping.be, on which everything can be found as well as answers to questions such as how to start and how to handle things practically. As you also know, the information on the e-commerce story is certainly available and there is also guidance from professional organisations, for whom they are members. Over the past few weeks, there have been many creative examples of shops that are physically closed. I note that the professional organisations have accompanied a lot of traders in these creative solutions. The Economic Inspectorate is not just prosecuting and sanctioning. She's also trying to support. It often also works with warnings, when violations have been established, unless, of course, it turns out that real bad faith is at stake. In the case of a warning, a certain period is given, to set itself in order and as a rule. A second check will follow. That is also the way the Economic Inspectorate works. It's no different here. In reply to your question on the ministerial decision, I can inform you that the decision was indeed taken on Friday. We are now preparing everything, to take tomorrow's ministerial decision on business before 4 May 2020. We are also in full preparation for the Ministerial Decision of 11 May 2020, on which questions will follow later. We hope to be able to take this decision next week because it contains three important aspects. First of all, the employee in retail. This is the guide. Employers and employees did their jobs there. Secondly, how do we deal with customers in a period of COVID-19? What are the rules that will apply there? This is fully prepared, in consultation with the experts and health experts. Thirdly, how do we set up the public domain, how do we deal with customer flows in the public domain? That is a matter of public order. It is now being prepared. This will also be the subject of a new decision by the National Security Council. The start-up on May 11th is not insignificant. We hope to be able to do so early next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u42	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I will certainly look at the term 'electronic commerce', because European legislation is about 'distance selling'. If you want to click on "internet sales" at "distance sales," you will be told that this page does not exist, while you can click on the other parts, such as "post order sales." Anyway, thank you for that extra tip. As far as the Economic Inspectorate is concerned, it is indeed important that there should be a warning first and not a fine immediately, because many certainly do not do so in bad faith. If I have understood you correctly about the ministerial decisions, tomorrow the ministerial decision on the decisions of 4 May would be published and only next week that for everything related to 11 May. Finally, you are talking about the new meeting of the National Security Council, but if I understood correctly, it would have been postponed. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u43	Mrs Van Bossuyt, the information on distance selling is.. I can show you all to consult.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Perhaps you should go to the FPS Economy website with another web browser. We can open all the pages, so I don't think there's a problem with that. So you'll have to look at that again. As for your final question, there will now be a ministerial decision before 4 May and early next week before 11 May. The meeting of the National Security Council was also not postponed. There was a core on which I was present this morning. We are in full preparation on 11 May with regard to the three aspects I have just mentioned. Once they are fully ready, they will also be clearly communicated and submitted to a new meeting of the National Security Council, the date of which is not yet fixed. However, it has been decided that there should be a meeting before the start-up can take place on 11 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u44	Debates of the European Parliament 5505547C by Mr Gilles Vanden Burre is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u45	Mr President, Madam Minister, since the appearance of coronavirus, many insured persons have wondered whether the pandemic is a risk that is covered in their insurance contracts (cancellation, assistance, hospitalization, etc.). Do you have an overview of how this risk is generally covered in the various branches of insurance? Has the FSMA found that some insurers have changed their terms and conditions to exclude pandemics? If so, in which branches of insurance and what is your reaction to this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u46	Mr Lacroix, European law determines that insurance control cannot be carried out a priori or systematically. FSMA's control of insurance can therefore only be carried out ex post, once the products have already been marketed and only on a case-by-case basis. As a result, FSMA does not have an overall view of how the pandemic risk is addressed in the various insurance sectors. Insurance undertakings are obliged to communicate in a clear, consistent and correct manner on the application of the conditions of an insurance policy and must therefore clearly and comprehensiblely indicate the coverages and exclusions of the insurance contracts they offer to the consumer. However, these coverages and exclusions may vary from one insurance company to another, even within the same industry. Insurance undertakings and intermediaries must take all necessary measures to inform policyholders clearly and in a timely manner of their contractual rights. This is all the more justified in the current uncertain circumstances. Contract law does not allow insurance companies to unilaterally modify existing contracts, with the exception of two specific cases. The first case is where the insurance undertaking, at least three months before the date of expiry of the contract, opposes the tacit renewal of the contract and invites the policyholder to enter into a new contract which contains the differences from the previous contract. This new contract will only be concluded if the policyholder accepts it. In addition, both when it objects to the tacit renewal of the current contract and when it proposes a new modified contract, the insurance undertaking must comply with all the procedures and rules laid down by law. The second case is where the insurance undertaking unilaterally amends a contract within the limits permitted by a clause of the contract. Such an amendment may, however, relate only to non-essential elements of the contract and may be applied only within certain well-defined legal limits. It goes without saying, therefore, that the addition of exclusions from essential coverage cannot be decided unilaterally. Furthermore, if an insurance undertaking is authorized to unilaterally amend the contract on the basis of such a clause and uses it within the limits referred to above, it must immediately inform the policyholder, together with the insurance intermediary. In conclusion, if FSMA finds that an insurance undertaking does not comply with these rules, it will take the necessary measures to protect the interests of the policyholders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u47	Minister, thank you for your clarification of the applicable legislation. I invite you, of course, to ensure that, as you have said in conclusion, the FSMA can act, having discovered a potential suspicious case – since it cannot do so a priori – as quickly as possible in the interests of consumers. Secondly, since – in accordance with the legal requirement – the insurance company needs the agreement of the policyholder to modify the substantial terms of the contract, it is hoped that it will not fall behind a possible customer disagreement in order to terminate the contract unilaterally. This would mean that the policyholder would be deprived of an insurance contract. I therefore hope that he is covered against such an eventuality. In any case, minister, I thank you for the quality of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u48	Mr President, this question is a little related to my first question, since it is also about insurance. Despite the support provided to deal with the coronavirus crisis, many independents and SMEs face serious threats to the sustainability of their business. In many cases, these companies have subscribed to professional insurance which may take the form of a guarantee of operating loss. I recently – two days ago – was questioned by an association of traders in the region of Liège, which analyses that these insurance contracts would not allow traders and businesses to be compensated for the loss of business they suffer as a result of the crisis of the coronavirus. Minister, do you confirm this analysis? According to the association, a possible solution would be to recognize coronavirus as a natural disaster under Article 124 § 3 of the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014. Is this track being examined by the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u49	I must be very brief, Mr. Lacroix. As a result of the sixth reform of the State, the recognition of a disaster, the criteria for the recognition of a disaster and compensation for damage caused by it through the disaster fund are the responsibility of the federated entities. They must make the decision that serves as a guarantee for insurance. That is not within my competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u50	Thank you for your answer. I will see at the level of the federated entities. There is indeed a federal insurance law, but it is true that natural disasters fall within the competence of the federated entities. What I'm worried about is that insurance – which for the time being realizes huge profits because there are fewer road accidents and fewer accidents at work, for example – seems to be really instruments that don't play their part when citizens need it especially. I will not let it go and I will discuss with my colleagues in the Regions how to find a solution for optimal consumer protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u51	Mr President, Madam Minister, in the context of the crisis of the VOCID-19 and the Assuralia agreement, a solution has been devised to ensure the continuity of group insurance coverage. In principle, when a person is placed on temporary unemployment, the coverage provided for in the collective contract which the employer has signed (hospitalisation, pension, incapacity for work, etc.) is suspended. In order to avoid this in the context of the crisis of the VOCID-19, a deal, an arrangement on the payment of premiums was agreed: in principle the payment is maintained at the employer's expense, but it can also be postponed until 30 September. However, the employer may also derogate from this option and suspend the guarantees during the period of temporary unemployment. To date, have any employers made use of this possibility of derogation? If so, how many insured persons have their group insurance suspended? These group insurance measures should be included in a legislative framework: what is the status of the bill or royal decree? Are there any avenues for solutions to go further than the Assuralia agreement and to ensure the continuity of all collective contracts during the period of the coronavirus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u52	During the current affairs debate in the Joint Committee on the Economy and Social Affairs on 8 April, I have already explained in detail the scope of the commitments made by the insurance sector in the context of the coronavirus crisis. The text of this reply was also given to parliamentarians. There are currently no plans to go beyond the sector's commitments with respect to group insurance contracts, as they already provide for the possibility of continuing group insurance contracts. As regards the continuity of these contracts and supplementary pension plans, a legislative initiative is needed to make this part of the commitment possible. In constructive consultation with the insurance sector and the National Bank of Belgium and FSMA, the office of the Minister of Pensions and my cabinet have drafted a bill to this effect. The Supplementary Pensions Commission, the FSMA and the National Bank were also consulted on this text. According to my information, this proposal was already adopted in the form of an amendment in the Committee on Social Affairs yesterday afternoon. The specific questions you are asking me about the continuity of group insurance coverage and pension plans in the context of the VOCID-19 epidemic fall under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Pensions. I invite you to ask him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u53	I thank the Minister for these clarifications. She recalled what had already been done, as well as the initiatives she had taken. As I told Minister Goffin, you are one of the few ministers to answer your questions. I will consult with my group to interview the Minister of Pensions on matters within his jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u54	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, I will ask my questions one after the other. Minister, at last Friday's National Security Council, the Prime Minister announced the reopening of all businesses without discrimination on 11 May, provided the situation permits. For shopping centres, the announced reopening allows managers to organise themselves in terms of security in order to avoid too much flow in front of certain signs. However, they expect clearer instructions so that there is some uniformity of rules in all Belgian shopping centres. Minister, can you give us more information on the conditions for reopening? Will specific guidelines be provided for shopping centres? Do you intend to take steps to ensure that the safety rules are the same in all shopping centres in Belgium? Mr President, Madam Minister, I turn directly to my second question. Last Friday, the Prime Minister also announced the reopening of retail stores on May 11. Technically, food markets are also engaged in retail trade and should therefore have been affected by this reopening. However, since their activity is open-air, markets are considered as gatherings and are therefore prohibited. Despite this, in Hainaut, some municipalities have allowed small food markets. For marketers' representatives, small markets are often more secure than large brands. They therefore expect clear rules to allow them to resume their activity. Minister, how do you respond to the representatives of these marketers? Why can't they open when it's sometimes more secure than in a big supermarket sign? Is there a date for lifting the ban on food markets? Can you tell us more? Finally, once reopening is possible, what will be the restrictions and rules in force in order to respect all actions in a food market?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u55	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to return to the difficult and paradoxical situation of the market gardeners. Last Friday, as a result of the announcements on deconfining, the representatives of the sector felt totally forgotten, like Mr Nys, director of the Brussels morning market. As a result of the press conference, it is surprising that there is no clear answer. This professional category, which brings together more than 6,000 companies, or nearly 20,000 players, is waiting. The seasonal fragility of these trades is significant and deprives operators of reserve funds. In addition, the season of fresh produce is now. Other representatives of the sector are concerned about the consistency of the measures. In fact, marketers are forbidden to sell their local products outdoors, while people line up to cloister in large areas. In addition, specific measures have been taken for the nursery industry. Why not for the market gardeners? The situation is all the less understandable because, on the one hand, the demand for local and sustainable products is strong and, on the other hand, the players in the sector say they are ready to open up now. We must also look at what is being done abroad. In France and the Netherlands, markets are open and solutions have been taken to comply with social distancing rules. Thus, in some French cities, for example, markets take place on football fields so that stands are sufficiently spaced. My question is simple, Madam Minister. Can you assure the markets that they will be able to resume their activity at the most on May 11th? Mr President, Madam Minister, I move on to my second question. The Horeca sector is undoubtedly one of the sectors most affected by the coronavirus crisis. These businesses were the first to close and will be the last to reopen, at best, on June 8. The sector has received an oxygen bubble through various aids granted by regional and federal entities. Initiatives have taken place on the part of the actors of the Horeca, such as Horeca Comeback. However, this is not enough to keep all the businesses in the sector in good condition. Many bankruptcies were announced and workers had already been laid off. In addition to the difficulty of not knowing when their activities will be able to resume, there are also the opening arrangements. Indeed, distancing measures will inevitably have to be taken. But at what price for traders? A financial officer from Charleroi said in the press that if he had to leave 1.5 m of space between customers, his turnover would decrease by 50 to 70 %. This situation is all the more problematic given the risk that containment-related aid measures may stop with the opening of shops. " It's kind of a disaster scenario for us. " We only have a choice between two evils. Either stay closed and have 0 % turnover, or reopen and have to pay for staff and goods, but with a significantly reduced turnover." Nevertheless, many employers risk working at a loss. Indeed, the horeca sector suffers an additional penalty: the suppression of cultural events and the financial returns that accompany them. In this context, Minister Clarinval said last Sunday in a French-language political program that measures will be taken to help the sector. Minister, have you already defined the type and amount of aid to be granted to the horeca sector? If so, do they take sufficient account of the difficulties outlined above? Can you explain yourself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u56	Mr President, Mrs Dedonder has also asked a question about the situation of foragemen in Belgium. It's also included in my answer. Generally speaking, at the federal level, there are various measures to support entrepreneurs and self-employed people, as well as in the Regions. Those who have been forced to close their businesses or who have had to cease their activities for 7 days are entitled to the bridge fee: from 1 291.69 euros to 1 614.10 euros per month. This measure has been approved for March and April and my colleague Mr Ducrame has already announced that this will also be the case for May. Additional measures have also been taken for supplementary self-employed persons who do not pay social security contributions in the course of their main activity, but who have a reduced income of between 7,000 and 14,000 euros. They are entitled to half the bridge right. In addition, a two-month tax deferral and social security contributions for the first two quarters are also foreseen. We should also note that the sectors covered by your questions are also entitled to additional support measures at the regional level, such as a nuisance premium, a corona compensation premium, and others, not only for businesses that have had to physically close their store or establishment, but also for the travelling trade. Remember that many of these sectors have also employed staff and are covered by temporary unemployment. This period extends until 30 June. It will be important to extend it for different sectors. As far as the fairgrounders are concerned, no decision has been taken today in the National Security Council. This decision is linked to the decision on the organization of events, when and how. The decision is taken at the level of the National Security Council. It was decided that this would be done as soon as possible from 8 June. We will assess the possibility of organizing smaller outdoor events in consultation with local authorities. Here too, caution must be exercised, given the unpredictability of the situation. With regard to the horeca sector, the National Security Council will also review the gradual reopening of cafes, bars and restaurants and other venues such as cinemas from 8 June. This will probably have to be done under conditions as well. The National Security Council provides for the gradual opening of restaurants first and then of cafés, with great caution. The impact will still be felt for a long time. Since the sector is also very dependent on the organisation of events this summer, temporary unemployment will have to be extended beyond 30 June. The government is also working today on an additional package with the Regions to support the sector during this difficult period, with for example the reduction of VAT, the postponement of rent... We have also read the proposals of the representatives of the Horeca. With respect to contracts, the government will make a quick decision as to when and under what circumstances they will be able to restart in consultation with local authorities. This also concerns the organisation of the public domain. Today markets can only take place in municipalities where the supply of food is insufficient. This measure is maintained. We hope to clarify before May 11 the date of their restart. I'm going to the store openings and the conditions. An exercise began to take a decision on this issue at a new National Security Council in the course of next week. I have already explained this to Mrs Van Bossuyt. There are three important aspects here: workers, customers and the organisation of the public domain. Let's go to workers and safety at work. In this context, we have drawn up with the social partners the generic "Working in safety" guide with which the various Joint Committees within trade are now working to see if further measures are needed. How to interact with customers without physical contact? To this end, a working group has been set up with the Minister of Economy and Middle Classes, as well as with the experts from GEES. The Conseil Supérieur des Indépendants has already prepared an opinion which can serve as a basis. How many customers will we allow per store? Do we have to go shopping alone? How are we going to organize the flow of customers at the door, in the shopping streets? What to do with the large shopping malls that house several shops? All these things need to be clarified quickly. Here, Mr. Chairman, are my answers to the five questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u57	Thank you again, Minister. My colleague Lacroix said earlier, but it is particularly pleasant to exercise his right of control over the government with ministers like you. Your answers are always detailed. At the same time, I would like to thank your firm, which can provide the precise answers to the questions we ask ourselves. I will note that for the markets, the decision is pending for the time being, but that the government should look at the organisation of these markets, which can sometimes have a real role in providing food in some small villages, and which also allow these market gardeners to survive in these difficult times. I hear that clarification could be made by 11 May. I appeal to him with all my wishes and hope that a clarification will come for this sector in great difficulty, and that its members will be able, subject to a series of conditions, particularly those relating to the organisation of public space, to resume their activities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u58	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. I hope that your willingness to help the sector in practice will be visible on the ground and that the market gardeners will have a quick answer because they are really impatient.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u59	Minister, I would like to share with you a study on a source of funding in times of crisis. It comes from the Research Group for an Alternative Economic Strategy and is based on figures from the National Bank between 2006 and 2018. The aim of the study is to tackle a structural problem: in each crisis, public aid must be repeated. The principle is therefore simple. If each company pays part of the dividends it grants to its shareholders on a special fund, the company could be able to deal alone, without state support, with a crisis similar to the one we are currently going through. The study calculated that if companies had paid 2% of their dividends to this special fund between 2006 and 2018, the total amount would now be EUR 12.7 billion. Knowing that in 2018, one month of the wage bill was equivalent to 12.1 billion euros - the figure that is not very different today in view of low inflation - this scheme gives us an idea of the force that such a fund could have and of the help it could provide to public finances in times of crisis. On the other hand, but still in connection with the last element, the proposed scheme would thus have the advantage of avoiding the error we made in 2007-2008, namely giving generous aid to companies, particularly through economic unemployment, while they continued to pay millions of dividends to their shareholders. Considering the fact that the virus can come back at any time in successive waves, that climate change will inevitably lead to natural disasters, that the situation in our public finances raises questions and that huge amounts are paid each year to shareholders, what do you think of this mechanism? Would you consider putting it on the table for discussion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u60	Thank you, Mr D'Amico, this subject could be the subject of lengthy discussion. I have also read the article to which you refer on the GRESEA website (Research Group for an Alternative Economic Strategy). This article calls into question public aid to our companies in the event of a crisis. The question is why public funds are used to support businesses. The article is quite guilty of our businesses. However, it was not the companies or the leaders that caused the Corona crisis. It was not our real-economy businesses that caused the 2008-2009 financial crisis. It should also be noted that measures relating to temporary unemployment are mainly taken to guarantee our workers income and purchasing power during this difficult period if they are temporarily unable to go to work. These measures also serve not only to give businesses time to respite in times of crisis, but also to ensure that future jobs of our citizens are maintained. The article proposes that 2% be deducted from dividends paid in the form of a special tax. The article is not clear on this point. The proceeds would then be transferred to a fund to amortise the financial consequences, in particular for the security of an economic crisis. As the measure proposed in the article exceeds my competence in the context of employment and the economy, I have submitted your question and the article in question to the President of the Economic Risk Management Group (ERMG) asking them to give an opinion on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-29-55-commissie-ic165x.u61	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I feel a willingness on your part to act in a favourable way. We therefore remain attentive.
