ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u1	Mrs Van Bossuyt, you can ask your questions one after the other. However, I would ask you to respect the speaking time, which is limited to two minutes per speaker, because there are a lot of questions on the agenda this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u2	Minister, at the moment about 5,000 Belgians with dual nationality are stuck in Morocco. The Moroccan Foreign Minister has taken the stand. During a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee, he indicated that there would only be repatriation problems with the Netherlands and Belgium and that Morocco had not yet refused to return to the country with which he or she has a connection. What followed was a direct accusation of discriminatory behaviour against you and your Dutch colleague. Meanwhile, the stranded families at the Moroccan Embassy had to demonstrate the family, professional or medical urgency of a repatriation. Of the 4,000 applications, only 1,700 fulfilled. It's a very serious accusation from your colleague. What are your views on the statements made by Morocco and will you follow them up? Is there any clarity about the Moroccan examination of the list of 1,700 urgent dossiers? How quickly can effective repatriation be achieved? What lessons do you draw from this? Do you intend, for example, to conclude specific agreements on repatriation with third countries such as Morocco? The Moroccan Ministry of Foreign Affairs has therefore accepted a first list of persons in a vulnerable situation. Those people will be able to return in the coming days and weeks. The Moroccan Government not only determines the pace, but also who is allowed to go and who is to stay. However, there are questions about the identity and profile of some people who are sending Morocco our direction. In view of the special circumstances in which repatriations take place, does the government at all times have a view of who is entering our territory? Are the persons on the list approved by Morocco subject to an additional security check by us? Are there individuals on the Moroccan list where our security services ask questions and who are already the subject of an investigation or are part of a risk group? Are there possible links to terrorism, for example?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u3	Minister, I would like to start by sending my first thoughts to all those families that are still blocked in Morocco. It has now been exactly two months since our compatriots were blocked in Morocco – exactly since March 18th. For several weeks we have been asking you about these particularly difficult situations, with families who are really in distress, we feel it well. Families are separated, with minors who often remain alone, either in Morocco or in Belgium, with parents who cannot join them. People are at risk of losing their jobs or have already lost them. Independent people, for example, have vandalized their case here in Brussels and cannot come back to settle the situation. There are a number of cases that could put the key under the doormat. These are really very difficult situations. We understand that these Belgians, today, lose patience. I hear that some people would even like to move on to legal action now. Minister, the first time we questioned you was April 7. You told us there were 500 Belgians stranded there. This figure has increased almost tenfold in a few weeks. Today, there are 4,000 to 5,000 people blocked in Morocco. It is obviously difficult to understand how we could not better anticipate this number of family cases to be rescued and repatriated to Belgium. Minister, I will allow myself to ask you a few very simple and factual questions. How many flights are you still planning to repatriate all the people still stranded on site? How many people did they eventually have to face refusals as they came under the criteria of repatriation, both humanitarian and social? It is quite disturbing that several families likely to meet all the criteria that you yourself imposed, following negotiations with the Kingdom of Morocco, sometimes do not receive a response at all or receive a negative response. How many Belgians remain blocked in Morocco? Do you have an accurate picture of the number of Belgians currently located in Morocco? Apart from all the efforts necessary for the organization of repatriations, what proactive communication is in place to help these families? As I said last time, it's pretty amazing that all these families are contacting us. I myself receive calls or messages on social networks every day. These families really don't know who to turn to. Minister, how are you going to be able to process all these formal repatriation requests?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u4	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, but I will have to be absent at some point to attend the funeral of a member of my family who unfortunately died as a result of the VOCID-19. I will therefore not be able to follow the whole of the committee's work, but I still wanted to be there to ask the question, given the importance of the subject and the seriousness of the situation. Minister, I am not going to repeat what has been said in recent weeks. I am not going to go back to managing these repatriations and all the problems. Nor will I go back to the chaotic management of the repatriation of some fellow citizens in recent times, a management of their contemptuous file with late answers and sometimes even bad answers. For example, people who were eligible were not included. In any case, I think we will have to go back to all these elements at some point. Today, Mr Minister, the most important thing, in view of the appeals and appeals that I receive from our fellow citizens, is to find a solution to this situation that has been going on for two months. It's been way too long. Today, we must find a solution to repatriate our compatriots. The answer so far is largely inadequate. There are still thousands of people in Morocco. What do you intend to do to repatriate them? Belgians are asking to go home. The Moroccan government has insisted that it does not prevent any binational from being repatriated. The proof is that France managed to repatriate 30,000 people during the same period when Belgium barely repatriated 3,000. Minister, what is your repatriation plan today? How many flights will they be organized? How many people will be repatriated? Why do you define restrictive criteria that will prevent some of our compatriots from being repatriated, while Morocco does not impose any restrictions on that level? Why does Belgium restrict the repatriation of its citizens? Do you intend to work to ensure that all Belgians who are stranded in Morocco are repatriated as soon as possible? It's been over two months. This is becoming a humanitarian issue. What is happening today is very serious. Every effort must be made to repatriate them as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u5	Mr Boukili, thank you and we offer you our condolences for the loss in your family.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u6	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it will of course be difficult to deny that these repatriation operations have been carried out without a certain mess or confusion. There have indeed been many problems in the application of the criteria negotiated with Morocco. Some people received an agreement before receiving a refusal the next day. There have been clear violations of the GDPR rules. Some persons who met the criteria for repatriation have, however, been refused. There is also the situation of mixed couples. The whole file was refused, for example when the gentleman was of Moroccan nationality, the Belgian or Belgian-Moroccan woman and the Belgian children. Of course, we will have to understand what happened. Where have there been malfunctions, knowing – I am convinced – that our services have fulfilled their duty with all the required commitment? Nevertheless, serious issues remain. On the other hand, I would also like to stress the attitude of the minister, who, in his personal capacity, has always shown responsibility and courage, looking at the difficulties in the face and always trying to find solutions. I believe that he has never been in denial and that he too has had to endure the heavy difficulties that have accompanied these repatriations. You have to say it. Minister, could you take a full look at the situation with as many numbers as possible? How many people did they get home? How many people are still there? Do you intend to negotiate further flights, knowing that people are still blocked on site? What about the situation in Spain and the other countries? I have been personally questioned by Belgians who are still in Gran Canaria and Tenerife and who are experiencing enormous difficulties.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u7	Mr President, Minister, first of all, I would like to apologize to the interpreters, because I do not have a microphone, and thank them for their work in these difficult times. I will not be long, because many things have already been said, but I would nevertheless like to commend the work done by the FPS Foreign Affairs. It cannot be said that nothing has been done. Humanitarian flights have, of course, taken place and many of our compatriots have been repatriated. Nevertheless, we still receive many messages about some problems and disorderly management in certain aspects. This is how several people have told us that we cannot have a certificate stamped by the Moroccan authorities, allowing us to move there – since all the administrations are closed there. They do not understand why they were not included in the list drawn up by the Belgian services, although they appeared to meet the criteria laid down. And then, edifying stories are sometimes told to us, such as that of the couple whose only spouse can be repatriated. Finally, the practical organization of buses has been criticized by our nationals on the spot. My questions will be simple, minister. While acknowledging the work already done, I would like you to provide us with an update. How do you respond to criticisms about the organization of bus transfers to the airport? How many flights are still planned and how many Belgians do you still expect to be able to repatriate from Morocco, given the seriousness of some of the remaining family and professional situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u8	Mr President, Minister, for many weeks now we have been concerned about the repatriation of our Belgian-Moroccan compatriots. Your services, which I welcome once again, have worked tirelessly to carry out this operation, despite the difficulties resulting from the actions of the Moroccan authorities. An agreement was finally reached at the end of April, thanks to which the first repatriation flights could be organised as early as 1 May. We have already discussed this in committee. These returns are subject to several conditions. Minister, may I ask you to take a full new look at this issue at this stage? How many Belgian Moroccans have been repatriated? How many of them still have to be, and within what time frame? How many, not subject to the conditions imposed by the Moroccan authorities, are they blocked on the spot? As far as the latter are concerned, will new contacts be made with local authorities to find a way to repatriate them or is this not on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u9	Mr President, Minister, about 3,400 Belgians of dual nationality would still be detained. This would be provided for in repatriation flights, if there are no commercial flights. Is it true it's about 3,400 people? If not, how many are there? How many of them are registered for repatriation? How many have been able to return from Morocco in the last week? How do you evaluate the cooperation with the Moroccan authorities for the return? Is there regular contact with European partners for a common message, strategy or methodology on the repatriation of EU citizens? What is the latest state of affairs regarding the state of health in Morocco itself? Is there evolution in that? What is the number of repatriation flights planned for the next few days?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u10	Minister, a few weeks ago you stated in committee that nationals of Moroccan nationality and a permanent residence permit in Belgium could not be repatriated at the request of the Moroccan authorities. Since then, we have heard that the Moroccan Foreign Minister has accused Belgium and the Netherlands of a certain kind of behaviour in relation to the repatriation of citizens, where, according to him, both countries have only chosen their native nationals and excluded people of dual nationality. According to Mr Nasser Bourita, Morocco has never refused to allow anyone who has a connection with another country to repatriate. You yourself stated that, during the first seven flights from the Belgian State, 50% of the Belgian Moroccans could return, contrary to your first claim. At the end of April, at the beginning of May, you organised seven additional flights, but you restricted the applications according to certain criteria. Moreover, there was enormous administrative chaos. Some people only received information about selection or even refusal after their return to Belgium, while some couples and families had only one person selected. We even heard about an unaccompanied underage woman, who would not have been selected until she was included on a list submitted to the Moroccan Ministry of Foreign Affairs, while Belgium would have rejected her file several times. Minister, I have three questions for you. Why did you ultimately select only 1,700 persons from the more than 3,500 Belgian-Moroccan persons who have applied for repatriation? When does the government intend to repatriate the thousands of people of dual nationality or permanent residence permits who are still detained in Morocco against their will? Finally, do you still intend to maintain the previous selection criteria, now that it is clear that the Moroccan State is not refusing their repatriation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u11	Mr President, Minister, over the last few weeks and months many Belgians have been stuck abroad. It is about Belgians who have one nationality, Belgians with a double nationality or compatriots who have lived here for a long time, but are not yet Belgians. In the meantime, some of those involved have already been able to fly back through commercial flights. That was at the beginning of the period. Others were able to return via repatriation flights. However, there are still thousands of people trapped, not only in Morocco but also in many other countries. This causes them a feeling of fear, powerlessness and sometimes even anger. They feel abandoned or second-class citizens. Those are the sounds that reach us. So, Minister, my questions to you are as follows. How many people have said since the closure of airspace that they want to return to Belgium? I would like to have a split between Belgians, people of dual nationality and others who have permanent residence permits in our country. How many of them are back in Belgium by now? How many have returned via commercial flights? How many have returned via repatriation flights or flights in cooperation with the European Union? Which countries were difficult to organise flights with? Why was that difficult? What were the reasons? How many people are still stuck abroad at the moment? What countries are they in? What initiatives are you planning in the future, to bring them back home and bring them back to where they live, in Belgium? What flights are planned in the short term? For which countries will our country no longer take initiatives? In what way will they be helped? Morocco is a specific case, alongside countries such as Burundi. For Morocco, however, it was stated at some point that a number of humanitarian criteria had been drawn up for people with dual nationality in agreement with Morocco. Only those people could be transferred with the second wave of repatriation. With the first wave, a number of commercial flights have been able to do so. Since 1 May 2020, 1,800 people have been repatriated in this way. However, there are 2,700 people still in prison, who had also indicated that they wanted to return. I have the following questions. What steps has our country taken to bring those people back to our country? How'd it go with the Moroccan government? Why was that difficult in some respects? What appointments were made? After all, I, along with my colleagues, note that ping-pong is being played in communication. On the one hand, Belgium says it does everything, and I think we have to believe that our country has done everything it could to bring people back, and on the other hand we hear that people with dual nationality should not come back. Later, however, the Moroccan government said that they can go back. I can see in the facts that this is possible for a number of countries, for example for France, but it has not been possible for everyone in our country. People have already been brought back, but there are still 2,700 registered people and perhaps others. What steps will or can you take for the thousands of Belgians, whether or not with the dual nationality, who are still stuck there today? If airspace is soon reopened, it will be a solution and these people can come back on their own initiative. But if that does not happen and the airspace remains closed for a long time, how will these people be able to come back to their homes in Belgium? Finally, I do not think it is a problem at all when people opt for a dual nationality. I have said this before in unsuspecting times, and I tabled a resolution in December to address the fact that in a number of countries, including Morocco, Turkey, Greece and Burundi, dual nationality is not a choice. People get the two nationalities anyway when they are born of parents of which one also has that nationality. It is even very difficult or even impossible to get rid of that first nationality. That could cause trouble. We have now seen that this is causing an additional problem, namely that people are considered Moroccans and should not leave the country. Do you also wish, as I asked in my resolution, to engage in diplomatic consultations with several countries in the future, not only in Morocco, which still has a problem with dual nationality?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u12	I ask colleagues to limit themselves to two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u13	Mr President, I would like to associate my word with that of the colleagues who expressed the anger and distress of the Belgian-Moroccan nationals who are stuck in Morocco. This causes a series of very serious disadvantages for these people in terms of health, employment, housing and family separation. This situation is beginning to last too long and makes no sense. I would remind you that it has its origin in the fact that Morocco has closed its airspace and has put in place an extremely strict confinement of its nationals. It considers that these persons of dual nationality are Moroccan. From a health point of view, it is absurd to prevent them from joining Belgium, where they usually reside. I sent a letter to the Ambassador of Morocco to Belgium asking him to find a solution to this crisis. I got it on the phone and he told me that the reason it's complicated is that these people are scattered throughout Moroccan territory and that it is difficult to get them to Casablanca airport. But it seems to me today that it is essential that we find a quick solution to this crisis, especially since Morocco has managed this epidemic very well since there are very few cases and deaths. If there was a health risk, it would eventually be in Belgium but this risk is extremely reduced since these people come from an area where there are very few cases. Minister, what is the status of your contacts with the Moroccan authorities? I understand that the situation could be gradually cleared up. Time is running out and we must find a quick solution to this extremely unpleasant situation for these people and which is totally absurd in terms of health management.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u14	Minister, as Mr. Ben Achour, we must pay tribute to the work that has been done in an unprecedented situation and that obliges us to understand the difficulties that anyone would have faced at some point. We must note what has been done and commend the work of the Belgian Foreign Affairs staff here and there. The on-site work was not easy. Of course, there is still work; the figures have been heard. I do not know whether it is appropriate to compare France with Belgium for such operations. There has probably been – you may tell us – more or less easy cooperation, according to the partners involved. No one is unaware of the relationship difficulties between Morocco and the Netherlands, for example. In addition, there are also the criteria that have been decided. At some point, decisions had to be made on certain criteria. Moreover, Morocco is not the only country. It may be necessary to have a vision of the number of people who remain abroad, knowing that we must be realistic and not be able to bring everyone back. Otherwise, it would be an untenable promise. We need to know if the work continues. I would like to say a word from Burundi. The situation in that country was of great concern. There will be elections tomorrow and we do not know how they will take place. But perhaps mechanisms have been implemented in the event of a risk of deterioration of the situation at the local level. As some colleagues have mentioned, there is also the problem of buses, it is difficult to mobilise buses to move around a territory that is confined and where curfew is applied. That's what I wanted to say today. The minister will no doubt give us figures and will tell us what is happening with regard to Burundi.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my condolences to Mr Boukili if he is still present. This is the fourth time that I have the honour to speak in the Committee on Foreign Affairs about the repatriation of our nationals. This gives me the opportunity to re-examine the situation. Having said that, I would like to hear my words without transforming them into a single part because it would be more comfortable. Indeed, this is about people who, in certain circumstances, have moved a little further away. There is Morocco, but there are many other places in the world where people want to return. It is therefore important to take stock of the situation. But it is also important to be able to listen to the answers given because I have a sense of duty, because democratic control requires it, to repeat myself on a series of subjects. That said, this is an opportunity to come back with consistency and consistency on the state of work of the Department of Foreign Affairs. First of all, I would like to stress, as I do every time, the enormous work done by my services both in Brussels and abroad, both in Brussels and in the various embassies or consulates throughout the world, to ensure that our nationals can be heard. I register totally fake when I read these e-mails. Mr Cogolati, I too receive a lot of e-mails and calls. I'm connected to the world like you. I get people who say we don't answer them, we don't hear them. Worse, we don't know them. That's not true. We must also see the reality of the ground, and you probably know it as I do. Some people send you 40 times the same email. I say 40 times. Some people call you, and if you don't answer in the minute, they call you every ten minutes. I can understand the anxiety, but we must also put ourselves in the place of our agents. Through the insinuations that create doubt, it is the probity of the foreign affairs officers that is called into question. I can't accept it. I repeat once again my full confidence in the work that has been done, both in Brussels and abroad. It is rather a pleasure to be able to say it, because it is a public service that works well. I think we are all committed to the proper functioning of the public service. This does not prevent us from analysing what has happened, but with the serenity and the necessary setback. It is the purpose of my answer that may be a little long. Unfortunately, there will be a lot of repetitions. As you know, we have 118 diplomatic and consular representations all over the world, with expatriate or local agents, men and women who, as I said, continue to do everything possible to ensure that our compatriots can either return to the country or pass this coronavirus crisis under the least difficult conditions possible. This goes from Peru to the Philippines, Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia. Mr. Flahaut also pointed to problems in Burundi. We pay particular attention to this on the eve of the elections there. This is such a crisis that we have never had until now. I have already taken the example of an earthquake in committee, following which we are repatriating a few nationals because, for example, their resort is no longer habitable. But here, it's all over the world. We must be able to express it clearly. Another important reminder was that on March 14, my department did not recommend all non-essential travel around the world. Things were very clear as early as March 14. Our Crisis Centre was activated from that day on. I recall that on 18 March, pursuant to section 7 of the Ministerial Order, we banned all non-essential travel abroad. From there, our repatriation operations started. They say we didn't do anything and we abandoned our nationals. I'll take the numbers back. They must be communicated, published and known to all: 47 flights have been carried out. We have brought nearly 7,750 Belgians, as well as 1,550 European and other nationals to Belgium. It's only been two months. In addition to this, the 2,430 Belgian and eligible persons who were able to benefit from a flight of return aid set up by one of our European partners under the European Civil Protection Mechanism. I also want to thank them. Yesterday, I was still on a conference call with my counterparts from neighbouring countries to highlight the positive aspects of European collaboration. The Union has sometimes been criticized during this crisis. It is true that some national selfishness has awakened because fear reigned. However, we can also distribute good points and extract from sinistrose. The European Union has worked by allowing nationals to return to the country. Sometimes it was Germans who were able to benefit from Belgian aid, French and Dutch – and vice versa. "External Affairs has abandoned us." How many times have I not read or heard this expression in the last few weeks? Not all Belgians are back, some are still stuck somewhere. That is the reality, but we have always done the best we can to help everyone and to find solutions. Let me also regret that, at times, we are allowed to report stories by failing to verify the truthfulness of the facts either with the spokespersons or simply by taking the time to analyse a little what really happened! We are always told of the case of a person perhaps in Haiti, perhaps in Tenerife, perhaps in Casablanca, perhaps in Argentina. We're just taking a piece of history. You should sometimes take the time to watch the end of the story. I'm not going to go into personal cases. That is obviously not my objective. It's not my role either, but I invite you to be careful when relaying stories. Sometimes you have to go to the end of the story. Once again, in relation to these stories that take time for analysis, I want to relay the colossal work of all the agents. As far as Morocco is concerned, since it is the bulk of today's issues that once again form the basis of the current debate, we have made important efforts, as you know, in relation to the situation in this beautiful country. The first wave of repatriation flights was carried out with seven flights which allowed Belgian nationals, be they Belgian or Belgian-Moroccan, to return to the country. At that time, you should say it more clearly, there were no so-called humanitarian criteria. There were no so-called social criteria. We have simply facilitated the return of these nationals by chartering, at the expense of the State, planes to go to Morocco. These planes did not go to northern Morocco simply because we had permission to land in Casablanca. It's as simple as that. What happened next? We also had Ryanair flights that had the opportunity to continue to assume their contractual obligations to their customers. Rather, they are flights from northern Morocco. The situation then stalled with the Moroccan health authorities. I would remind you that Morocco, as some of you have pointed out, has entered into a fairly strict and strict confinement, and we must pay tribute to it because it has achieved very good results in relation to the coronavrius pandemic. Negotiations were then initiated with the Moroccan authorities. The Moroccan Foreign Minister with whom we have regular contacts has, at one point, allowed the return of our nationals on the basis of two criteria: the so-called humanitarian and the so-called social. Mr Boukili, when you continue to say that there are no criteria or lists, that is simply not true! I don't know how I can say it otherwise. These are criteria that were negotiated with the Moroccan authority that managed – and it is to his credit – the crisis of the VOCID-19 as it felt it had to do, with strict containment and with more than positive results, as in our country, where we see the results of the efforts that have borne fruit. From the moment we obtained these two criteria with the Moroccan authorities, we again made an appeal and allowed our nationals to respond, to send certificates. We received them at our Rabat representation. After a serious analysis, because we had to be serious about the Moroccan authorities, we sent them these lists and we organized repatriation flights. I repeat once again: yes, there were criteria. Yes, we had to submit these lists to the Moroccan authority. And it was on the basis of these lists that we were able to organize repatriations. We have organized more than originally planned to meet as many requests as possible. I hope that this is quite clear. Otherwise, I don't know what to say or how to clarify it. The first air repatriation took place on 18 March and the last on 15 May. As I said, there have been a total of seven flights from Morocco since the beginning of the repatriation, which has led to the repatriation of a total of 3,050 people. This represents one third of all repatriations organised by Belgium. One third of the returnees to Belgium were from Morocco. It is a figure that must also be taken into account. To be precise, I take the figures: 1,139 people repatriated during the first operation and 1,912 during the second series. If we had had a problem with the second series, would we have had so many repatriations? We've done as much work as we can. We did. Among the second series of 1,912 people, there were 1,710 Belgians and 202 non-Belges. I repeat, she's one in three. The Moroccan authorities have indeed imposed a drastic lockdown with positive effects, which has sometimes complicated travel within the country. I would also point out that the Moroccan Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs Nezha El Ouafi, said: "Once in the national territory, binationals are considered to be Moroccan nationals. They are subject to the same laws as other Moroccans." This position vis-à-vis binationals has been constant. Like their fellow citizens residing in Morocco, they are supposed to remain on national soil. As I said: from 19 March 2020, this position to consider that binationals on Moroccan territory were only Moroccan in relation to the authority as such was adopted and we were able to relax the consequences of this decision on the basis of negotiated criteria - the so-called "humanitarian" criterion and the so-called "social" criterion. These discussions lasted a little bit. Some say it dragged and it was complicated. Yeah, it was complicated, but it didn't drag. We have had permanent contacts from Belgium or from Rabat, whether it is with the Moroccan ambassador here, whom I thank for his availability, or with the minister or the responsible authorities there. Yes, it took time, but it allowed us to work and move forward with the solutions I have just mentioned. The numbers speak for themselves. We've been told there's been some cracking. We need to put ourselves in place of our services. I have quoted a whole series of figures that are now being confirmed. I remind them: 6100 e-mails were received from the moment the second wave of repatriations was announced. For 4,450 people, there were humanitarian repatriations, of which 3,440 were Belgian or binational, to be clear. Indeed, I would not like to see any further ambiguity in this matter. Mrs Van Bossuyt, you asked a question about the statements made by Minister Bourita to our country in the Foreign Affairs Committee, when our agreement has already been concluded and implemented. I will not comment on what my colleague said at a closed meeting. I just want to clarify that in a Moroccan press release dated 24 April last, only our northern neighbours were mentioned. It is important to mention this. After intense and thorough work, there were therefore the famous cases of people who were submitted to the Moroccan authority with the results that I was able to report. Mr Boukili, I repeat once again that it is totally incorrect that Morocco has accepted the whole list submitted by Belgium and that we would have deliberately reduced it by depriving compatriots of repatriation. There is a simple logic: for the first repatriation, there were no criteria. Why would we suddenly have said that Belgium, on its own, was going to set criteria? That's not true. There was a negotiation with the Moroccan authority. We must also respect the way in which the Moroccan authority has chosen to manage its confinement. I would remind you that we ourselves have very strict rules in terms of containment. I would also remind you that we have rules, which may differ a little from those of our neighbours, hence the discussion we had yesterday with the neighbouring countries. This is a matter of national sovereignty. The "second wave" repatriation flights, I will call them that, were carried out on 1, 2, 5, 7, 11, 13 and 15 May. It cannot be said that the federal state has not mobilized itself to succeed in these repatriations. It wasn't easy. A certain chaos has been mentioned with regard to the fact that we have organized in addition to transport to the airport of departure of the flights. I think that again, it is to the honour of Belgium to have wanted to facilitate a situation of return and arrival at the airport, knowing that, given the strict rules of confinement, it was not so simple for our nationals to be able to get to the airport. We did. In relation to this, I read that sometimes a document had to be stamped, that it was necessary to go to the local Moroccan authority to do so. Again, let's be a little logical! It is not up to us, like the SPF of Belgian Foreign Affairs, to give instructions to the Moroccan local authorities regarding documents useful for the trip. It is the Moroccan authority that must do so. I think there is a minimum of common sense that we can all share. We can also say positively that a state, ours, can really be happy to have gone so far in the process to allow the return of as many as possible, knowing that there were indeed areas quite far from the airport. Mrs Van Bossuyt, I can assure you that checks have been carried out on the national register numbers and on the effective residence in Belgium, which has allowed us to identify many persons who have been removed from office and to identify cases of tax fraud. The presence of many children subject to compulsory education was another phenomenon that surprised us. Indeed, it is surprising that in March, in the midst of compulsory schooling, minors are abroad. Finally, passenger lists were sent in advance for verification to the airlines, to the federal police and to Zaventem's border control services. That's important, too. With regard to Belgians scattered throughout the country, we have actually allowed the use of transport. This has not been done in a simple way and the first profession of outside representation is not to organize this kind of travel. Yet it has been done. I also think that this can be stressed. We were told that the calls were coming, sometimes, a little late. I would remind you that list checks were not simple. In the face of inaccuracies, it is always surprising to endorse them to the administrative authority. I am not saying that, in some cases, there have been no difficulties, but systematically take the fold to say that the Belgian authority has worked badly, I disapprove. It was a really substantial, colossal job, and if you ever have to live this situation, you'll find it wasn't that simple. We also received late calls, linked to a fairly strict containment on site. Let me remind you that from 7:00 to 5:00 in the morning, everything was strictly closed. It was therefore sometimes difficult to organize repatriation under the most comfortable conditions possible. Mr Boukili, you are talking about rather absurd practical arrangements. I think it's simply absurd to talk about absurdities in that case, when we made it easier for our nationals to get back on the plane. In summary, in the first sequence, there were no criteria, in the second sequence, criteria were negotiated. The lists have been submitted to the Moroccan authority and it has indeed validated a whole part of these lists. Unfortunately, some people who would like to return to the country are still stuck there. We have maintained constant contact with the Moroccan authorities. Even yesterday, I was in contact with the Moroccan Foreign Minister and we agreed to continue repatriation operations with the so-called forced commercial theft mechanism. The minister has confirmed to me that he is still asking for lists, always presenting the two so-called humanitarian and social criteria. Lists will have to be sent to the Moroccan authority and if we succeed in obtaining forced commercial flights, further repatriations may take place. I heard a somewhat surprising comparison with France. When you make a comparison, you have to go to the end. France has 67 million inhabitants and I understand that Belgium has 11.5 million inhabitants. It would be interesting to reduce the figures to their fair proportion in relation to the number of French returnees from France to its territory. Looking at these proportions, we find that we are in a fairly similar proportion and when we discuss with our counterparts in the different European countries, we find that the same mechanism is necessary for them. There has been no so-called European repatriation. Each country negotiated directly with the Moroccan authority. That is what we do and continue to do. France did the same, the Netherlands did the same and other countries did the same. I quote these two countries for having had more advanced discussions with my two Foreign Affairs counterparts. To conclude again, we will continue the operation. We are fully aware of the difficulties encountered by some of our nationals. I haven't heard much thanks for the 1,910 people who were repatriated a few days ago. These flights have just been organized in particularly difficult conditions; I am very pleased that our nationals have been able to return in these conditions. I have to tell you something, too, because we have to talk about everything. We were told that some flights were not complete. In your opinion, why? Because, unfortunately, some of our nationals have not resigned to give way to others or have not presented themselves. That's how it is. It is a reality that must be expressed. So that means we didn't consider that we could afford to get a half-filled plane back. All the planes were filled. Simply, some people felt it was useful not to introduce themselves and, in some cases, not to even warn. That's how it is! Very positively, we continue the work. We have advanced contacts with the Moroccan authority. I hope that, as soon as possible, our citizens will be able to return home. As Mr Flahaut said, unfortunately there are nationals in the world who will not be able to return. Every effort is made to make it as difficult for them as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your long answer. We're going to the replicas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. The only thing I am still a little concerned about is the control of the people on the list. You say that the passenger lists are being forwarded and reviewed in advance and that a number of cases of tax fraud could be filtered out. I think it is important that this extra control has taken place. However, you did not explicitly answer my question as to whether additional security checks are being carried out by the services. You cannot therefore guarantee that people who are the subject of an investigation or who are part of a group at risk, such as terrorism, will be excluded from repatriation to Belgium. I'm a little worried about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u18	I would remind colleagues that the reply is limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answers. There is no doubt that we remain grateful for the people mobilized almost day and night at both the FPS Foreign Affairs and the consular posts and at our embassy in Rabat. It is obvious that we have underestimated the tragedy of these families stranded in Morocco. In recent weeks, we have increased from 500 to 6,100 applications for repatriation from Morocco to Belgium. It must be noted that the situation remains difficult. We encourage and support you in your efforts to continue this repatriation operation because it is urgent to be able to bring together separated families and repatriate young people, people who risk losing their jobs in Belgium and elderly people who need medical treatment in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. I sometimes felt like I was reviving one of the April commissions by seeing problems resurrected, which, in my view, were no longer in the second wave of repatriations, particularly the issue of binationals, which came back to the table today. From the moment that there are still people who meet the criteria for a return, it is necessary to maintain an intense dialogue with the Moroccan authorities in order to consider other aspects. I hear it's your will and you're working on it. That's the right thing to do. We fully support you in this process, and I invite you to show the same commitment as you and our services in recent weeks, even though we will have to draw the lessons from the difficulties we have encountered. Then, Minister, you did not answer me about Spain. These may be special cases, but I have still been asked by several people to do so. I imagine that we will come back to committee to take stock of this important situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u21	Minister, thank you for your unusually annoyed but very comprehensive response. We are all aware of the work done by the FPS Foreign Affairs and we thank him for that – of course. Be also assured that, when we identify certain problems on the spot – such as the history of buses or tampons – the reproach is not addressed to Belgium, which can't help it. Simply put, we would like to hear your views on the difficulties facing our compatriots. Finally, we support and encourage you to continue this work that we know is difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u22	Minister, thank you for your particularly comprehensive answer. I also believe that we should pay tribute to the tremendous work done by the Foreign Affairs Department in our 118 consular representations around the world. This crisis is unprecedented, precisely because it is simultaneous throughout the world. I will keep an eloquent figure: 3,050 repatriations from Morocco, i.e. one third of the 7,750 Belgian repatriations and 1,150 European repatriations carried out by our country. It's huge! This proves to those who still doubt that, no, Belgian or Belgian-Moroccan nationals have not been abandoned by the authorities. Of course, I urge you to continue the contacts – which I am pleased to hear – with the Moroccan authorities, with a view to allowing further repatriations, which are also subject to Rabat's assessment – as you pointed out – while remaining under the strict control of the Belgian authorities in order to avoid any fraud that could undermine the credibility of our services. Thank you, Minister, and through you all the Foreign Affairs interlocutors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In discussions you are usually quite calm by nature, but today I thought you were a little angry in your reply. The questions, of course, relate to a very large number of people, whatever you have mentioned, and there are a lot of precarious situations under them. The situation may be even more complex for those concerned, which we in Parliament are talking about as a public authority. I would like to express my thanks to all those who are making efforts. From this Parliament, I think we should follow both sides very closely. Are you gonna be okay soon enough? Is there enough consultation with Morocco, preferably with several countries? The current situation, with those numbers, cannot last. At some point there must be a structural solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u24	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to say that Mr Boukili has been excused for a funeral which took place at 10.30 a.m., so that he cannot replicate. Minister, I hope that the remaining people of dual nationality or permanent residence permits will soon be repatriated again. After all, the situation is poignant. These include divorced families and people with health problems. You really need to do something about this as a matter of urgency, because I do not think there is any justification for waiting any longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would also, of course, like to thank the services. We have ended up in an incredible crisis situation, where suddenly around 27,000 Belgians were imprisoned worldwide, who had to be repatriated. It is good that a lot of work has already been done and that about a third has already been done. The others, however, are also compatriots and they also want to return home as soon as possible. I therefore welcome your announcement that you will continue the repatriation mission, albeit with commercial flights; that is okay. That must, of course, be done with everyone who is trapped, wherever in the world. So it is not just about Morocco, but also about many people who are still stuck in Spain, for example. We must continue to work on this. We know that the services were flooded with e-mails. Some people have e-mailed 40 to 50 times. Better communication is therefore a working point so that everyone gets at least an answer and knows what they are up to. You say that the selection criteria will be used for the continuation of repatriations. I understand that you do that in a first phase, but in the end everyone has to return, for example a student who does not have underage children, but who has to do tests here in college. Those are also people who want to go back home. It concerns not only people of dual nationality but also people who are permanently resident here but who do not have a dual nationality. Minister, please give everyone the perspective that they can return home. I hope and trust that you will do everything you can to make that happen, to reunite families and give people the perspective that they can return home.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u26	Minister, I understand your annoyance with regard to the campaign of denigration against your services, when we know – and I am well placed to know that since I have been in this situation very closely since the first day as well as that of other nationals in other countries – that they have done everything possible to repatriate the maximum of our citizens. I know, moreover, that in some positions, the staff, the diplomats are at the end of the roll, are exhausted, after all the work carried out for weeks. I would like to congratulate them on the work they have done. You said that this was a decision of the Moroccan authorities that diplomacy managed to ease. You also stated that you would continue to work so that the persons concerned could return to the country, while taking into account the criteria of the Moroccan authorities. As far as I am concerned, I would like to join Mrs Lanjri in saying that, beyond the criteria, all our compatriots must be able to return home. The Moroccan authorities must be urged to do so. Indeed, the decision not to let them leave Morocco is totally absurd in terms of managing the epidemic, as I told the Moroccan ambassador. I therefore propose that all the colleagues in this committee take a joint approach to the Moroccan embassy, since it is at this level that the decision is taken, it is at this level that there is a blockage. This approach could make sense and perhaps help to resolve the situation more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u27	Minister, I thank you for this fourth frank and comprehensive answer, as we say in diplomatic language. I can assure you that your smiling face would probably contrast with mine if I had been in your place! As you said, we are indeed far from repatriation following the tsunami that I had to deal with. Today, the whole earth is concerned and history is not over. As you have confirmed, there will be other flights – this is good news – on the basis of criteria that will probably be defined. However, I am not sure that increasing the number of speakers in Morocco and Belgium to diplomatic staff is a good way forward. The train is on track and must be allowed to continue its journey. As Mrs Lanjri said, problems also arise with other countries. But I guess at this level, we're also working on solutions. This demonstrates, in any case, the urgent need for European coordination to respond to this kind of humanitarian disaster. In this case, action has been very pragmatic and concrete, but it may be possible to structure things without falling into the European bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, we turn to the other questions on the agenda. We have over sixty questions this morning. I propose that you limit yourself strictly to two minutes per question. To save time for colleagues, especially the minister, you can refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u29	Mr. President, excuse me. Is there an end time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u30	Yes, it is. Mr. Minister must leave at 12:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u31	Mr President, there are a lot of questions. You know my willingness to be as available to Parliament as possible. It had been agreed with the committee to see us next week for further questions, because we realize that the whole of the questions cannot be asked. This postponement is, in any case, not very long. And I would like to come next week to answer in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u32	I thank the Minister and his services so much for their availability.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u33	Mr President, my question concerns the reopening of borders. This would be possible at the earliest from 8 June, depending on the successful roll-out of the previous phases. Both you and Minister De Crem have shown that there are already several talks on this subject. Your German colleague Heiko Maas has already referred to the importance of a European agreement on this issue. Last week we also received the European Commission's proposals on how this could possibly be done. I have a number of specific questions on this subject, Minister. Do you agree that there is a common European agreement on the possible reopening of European internal borders? If the borders were to open again, does that mean that the repatriations will end or will they simply continue until everyone can resume normal commercial flights? How will your administration handle this? Will you scale up its capacity to inform passengers sufficiently before they leave? How will the operation of the postal network be strengthened? It is no secret that Belgium has a bad reputation abroad for the number of corona infections and deaths. Will the FOD make efforts to reconnect destinations for Belgians? Will our postal network play a role in this? My second question concerns, among other things, the COOVID-19 passport. Is that what you're arguing for? To what extent are the tourism ministers involved in the consultations, because it is important that Belgium has a coordinated approach? What is your opinion on tourist corridors? In connection with information exchange, there would be a website at European level. Is Belgium already cooperating in this? In short, can you offer a perspective when borders may be reopened and in what way this will happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u34	Minister, I hope you will have heard the sound of the question better.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u35	Mr President, I have heard almost everything. With a view to the gradual and secure reopening of borders, Belgium has for a long time argued for a common approach by mutual agreement. Together with my colleagues, I am in close contact with colleagues in neighbouring countries for the elaboration of the national exit strategy. The repatriations will be examined on a case-by-case basis. The operation's coming to an end. This is also noticeable by the decrease in the number of repatriation flights from the EU countries. As I said before, it is impossible to repatriate everyone. The Belgian embassies will continue to offer the necessary consular assistance, if necessary. The acute crisis is over. The traditional consular assistance will also be taken back to the field of assistance. Facilitating and assisting are now the key words, and no longer repatriating. With its network, the FPS Foreign Affairs is sufficiently able to process the expected wave of applications. Additional workload will mainly consist of informing future travellers well. The travel advice on the FPS Foreign Affairs website is the appropriate instrument for this purpose. The temporary rest between the repatriation phase and the re-opening phase of the borders allows the functioning of the crisis teams to prepare for this. The call centre will remain operational to respond to calls and e-mails. Each country has developed its own statistical data collection system based on the local situation of the COVID-19 crisis and the characteristics of the local public health system. After the press in some countries drew attention to the high mortality rates in Belgium due to COVID-19, the federal government communicated on the Belgian statistical system. In an international press conference, Sciensano's experts explained that Belgium simply applied the World Health Organisation's recommended methodologies. Belgium was praised for this and other countries were encouraged to apply this methodology. Following these communication exercises, no diplomatic post abroad has found that Belgium has acquired a bad reputation. On the contrary, Belgium has been recognised as a country that has managed to control the pandemic, without public health saturation and with the WTO's congratulations. Like Belgium, many countries in their travel advice recommend non-essential movements abroad, based on an analysis of the situation. Many countries, like Belgium, restrict access to their territory to essential movements. The FPS Foreign Affairs and its postal network have regular contacts with the foreign embassies in Brussels and with the authorities of the partner countries to explain Belgian policy and demonstrate the results achieved. We support all efforts to deliver medical material, for example through our expedition services, to our posts and fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. However, I have not heard whether there is any prospect of reopening our borders. Several neighbouring countries and other European countries have already announced when they will be able to travel again, but I have not heard from you yet. In this way, of course, we will maintain a European race. So you don't have a visual on that yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u37	I have regular contact with the other countries. Yesterday I had contact with the Netherlands, Germany, Luxembourg and France. We are looking for solutions together with these countries and it is therefore still too early to make an announcement on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u38	Mr President, I am glad that this question has finally been raised. After all, it was filed a month ago. Mr Minister, I have a number of specific questions about the return flight to the Congo from Belgo-Congolese on 12 April. Can you confirm that the mere possession of a Belgian passport in some repatriations was a sufficient condition for an evacuation, without the need for proof of contact or residence? Why is there a difference between the different countries? On 8 April, in reply to my question, you said that defence would only be involved if civil resources were not available or not sufficient. We see so far that the embassy in Kinshasa provides via social media or direct contact suggestions about potential commercial flights that can be taken. Was the deployment of Defense strictly necessary? Can you confirm that on the flight of 12 April some 20 persons with corona symptoms were taken on board? Why was this done? Were they and the rest of the passengers subsequently subject to restrictive measures? Have they been quarantined? So this was checked, too? In reply to my question of 8 April, you replied that all costs will be pooled at the level of the Defence Staff and that the distribution of costs between the various departments will be decided later. Has an agreement already been made on the cost allocation? How much of this was paid by the passengers themselves? Can you give an overview of the total cost of the repatriation operation for the Defense to date? I had submitted these questions to the Defence Committee, but I was not allowed to do so. That's why they were sent to the Foreign Affairs Committee. So these questions have gone back and forth. It's been a month. I am sorry to have to bother you with dated questions, Minister, but I hope to have clarity and clarity after a month.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u39	Mr Francken, the mere possession of a Belgian passport was never a sufficient condition. Of all the repatriated Belgians, the whereabouts were checked. The goal of each repatriation flight continues to help stranded Belgians return to Belgium. In the second place, holders of a residence permit could also be admitted on board the deposited flights. If there were not enough Belgians left room for an EU national in the context of European solidarity. As far as I know, there is no different treatment per country either. Belgians residing abroad were not repatriated. That is the spirit of the measures against the further spread of the virus: stay in your vomit, even if you are abroad. The flight from Defense to Kinshasa on April 11 was a flight that would have been inlayed anyway, as it also brought relief supplies to Kinshasa. It is clear that Belgians were placed on the return flight. You may be referring to the flight from Kinshasa that was deposited on April 11th, not April 12th. Persons with corona symptoms were not allowed on the flight. That was clearly in the instructions to the embassies. Every Belgian with or without symptoms who returned via a repatriation flight had to remain in quarantine for two weeks thereafter. This was also communicated to all Belgians. The government had reserved an envelope of EUR 5 million for repatriation operations. This envelope was respected. In consultation with the services of the Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the budget, it was decided that the reimbursement of the costs of repatriation carried out on an aircraft of Defence would be requested directly by this department to the interdepartmental commission corona. In addition, my services have started to recover the sums due for repatriation flights. Indeed, every passenger has had to sign a debt statement amounting to between EUR 200 and EUR 500, depending on the total cost of the flight. My services are also waiting for the recovery of the European Union for the repatriation flights that were deposited in the framework of the European Civil Protection Mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u40	Mr President, Minister, you were quite right to say that it was 11 April, which was a mistake of mine. You say you took those people because you were going to send goods anyway. That doesn't seem illogical to me. You say there were no people with corona on board. That goes absolutely against the information I have at my disposal. Mr. Secretary, there were about 20 people on board with corona symptoms. There's a lot of them. They were quarantined on the plane all the way in the back. There was a medical team that measured the temperature before departure in Kinshasa, looked at the symptoms and then isolated 20 people on the plane all the way back. There was no testing. One could not perform a test in Kinshasa in a few minutes. However, about 20 people had clear symptoms. What you're saying is completely contrary to my information, which comes from a reliable source. So that needs to be looked at more closely. You say there was no one with corona, my information just says the opposite and talks about about about 20 people with symptoms. However, there is no evidence, because there was not tested and so one can never be 100 % sure. However, if one is coughing and has a fever, there is a chance that it will go in that direction. I'll check that again. I certainly hope you are telling the truth in Parliament. Perhaps you've been misinformed by your people. However, it is very strange. Finally, EUR 200 to 500 will be recovered from passengers. Do you already have an exact amount of the cost from Kinshasa? You say that it costs 200 to 500 euros but that this depends on the place of departure. I understand that. A flight from Australia will probably cost more than a flight from Morocco. Has it been decided how much it is for Kinshasa? You didn't really say that. Does that still have to be decided? Or haven't you got a visual on that yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u41	Mr President, Minister, for three decades Eritrea has been under the leadership of an iron hand by President Afwerki, who has set up a particularly brutal dictatorial regime there. This country is one of the worst students in respect of human rights: arbitrary arrests, torture, inhuman and degrading punishment, repression of opponents... This country checks all cases of violations of fundamental rights. Human rights organisations are prohibited there, the regime even refuses to grant visas to United Nations special rapporteurs. This dictatorship, considered one of the most violent in the world, has long led to a massive flight of its population, especially young people fleeing the "national service", considered slavery by the United Nations Commission of Inquiry on Human Rights in Eritrea. There are now approximately 170,000 Eritrean refugees in camps in Ethiopia. Ethiopia, until very recently, offered Eritrean refugees automatic protection when they arrived on Ethiopian soil. This policy ensured minimum protection for Eritrean refugees, both against traffickers in human beings and from the repression of the Eritrean regime. Unfortunately, Ethiopia had put an end to that protective policy, which raised serious concerns from the field, including UNHCR and Human Rights Watch. This change in policy on the protection of Eritrean refugees in Ethiopia will also, and probably will, have an impact on the number of refugees trying their luck to Europe. Minister, what are the European Union and Belgium doing to ensure protection for refugees fleeing the Eritrean regime? Do the European Union and Belgium provide logistical and financial assistance to Ethiopia to address the challenges posed by migration from Eritrea? If so, is it possible to strengthen this aid in the future? Is the possibility of allowing Eritrean refugees to apply for asylum in Europe from Ethiopian refugee camps and thus avoid them a dangerous and expensive journey? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u42	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, 1,187 Eritrean nationals applied for asylum in Belgium in 2019, out of a total of 27,742 applications received. Eritreans then constituted the sixth largest contingent of asylum-seekers in our country; 75 per cent of the decisions rendered resulted in the granting of refugee status. In other words, the protection rate for Eritreans is well above the national average of 36.9 per cent in 2019. In the first three months of 2020, 244 Eritreans applied for asylum in Belgium, with a recognition rate of up to 71%. At European level, in 2019, over 13 000 Eritrean nationals applied for asylum, out of a total of 680,000 applications received. Their recognition rate was close to 81 per cent. So far, in 2020, some 2,500 Eritreans have applied for asylum in the European Union, of which around 10% in Belgium. In Ethiopia, the Belgian Embassy in Addis Ababa is part of the Refugee donor group, a group of representatives from various donors, countries and organizations involved in the work on refugee issues in Ethiopia. This group meets four times a year. When rumours of a new Ethiopian policy of recognition of Eritrean refugees began to circulate and news of the closure of the largest camp in the Tiger region, where Eritrean refugees were welcomed, the Refugee donor group took the initiative to write a letter to the Ethiopian authorities concerned. After numerous informal attempts to revive the difficult dialogue with the Agency for Refugees and Returnees, this letter, signed by some ten ambassadors, including those of the European Union and Belgium, was intended to formalise these efforts and to express concerns about the closure of the refugee camp. However, the Agency took note of this initiative and attempted to discredit this approach through a personal campaign targeting a few personalities from the donor group. It was therefore decided to leave the group of letters in abeyance. Denmark and the United Kingdom have tried in vain to contact the (?). The European Union and Belgium are already providing significant support to Ethiopia to deal with the many challenges posed by migration, notably through the Emergency Trust Fund for Africa, which at this stage finances 12 projects, for a total amount approaching EUR 250 million. These projects aim to support Ethiopia in creating economic opportunities, particularly for refugees, through vocational training, access to micro-finance, the creation of industrial parks, etc. It also aims to enable Ethiopia to meet the long-term development and protection needs of Eritrean and other refugees, their host communities, and to address the root causes of internal instability and forced displacement. This possibility is not on the agenda at this time. The basic principle within the EU remains that it is necessary to be in the territory of a Member State in order to be able to apply for asylum there. Recognized refugees living in a third country may sometimes be able to be resettled to the territory of a Member State if they meet certain conditions. These resettlement plans apply to particularly vulnerable refugees. Eritreans can also benefit if they meet the criteria. The places are obviously limited but several Member States have carried out resettlement operations for Eritrean nationals in recent years, including Belgium - 33 Eritreans from Niger have been resettled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u43	Mr Minister, thank you because, on the migration side, you sometimes provide more specific answers than your colleague, Mrs De Block, who, I know, is on other issues at this time. Thank you, therefore, for these very clear figures. When you mention a rate of 71 % of recognition in Belgium, I wonder, however, what are the criteria for the rejection of the other 29 %, knowing the reality of the ground in Eritrea? I will ask Mrs De Block this question. I thank you for your complete answers to the initiative and support for this letter, which, unfortunately, has not been successful. The Ecolo-Groen Group remains convinced that a solution to the migration issue is indeed the possibility of making requests at the source to prevent these people from putting themselves in danger because, in any event and whatever happens, they will make the migration journey. I really encourage you to allow what we call relocations. This has been done in the past and is being done in other countries. With NGOs on the ground, work can be done on vulnerable people, given the situation and pending a structural settlement, both on aid in Ethiopia and on the catastrophic situation in Eritrea.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u44	Mr President, excuse me for interrupting this question-and-answer session. I have noted that the minister was available until 12:30 p.m., that is to say, 55 minutes. I reviewed the agenda and saw that the questions about Egypt were at the end, leaving little hope for the possibility of asking these questions today and, above all, hearing the Minister's answers. Amnesty International is planning action tomorrow in front of the Egyptian embassy, and it seems important for Parliament to be able to speak on this very serious, very worrying subject today. Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, would there be any objection to these issues going back on the agenda, so as to allow maximum visibility on this major issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u45	Mr President, I can only support Mr. Ben Achour, not because my question is part of these questions, but because the situation on the ground demands it. It's not just because of Amnesty's campaign. You know that less than a week ago, a journalist died in Egyptian prisons and that many political opponents have been wanted for the past few weeks. I know that in the organization it's quite complicated, but I want to stress the urgency and use collective intelligence to bring these issues up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, as a compromise and if there is no objection, I propose that you actually move on to the questions contained in item 36 of the agenda, but that you limit yourself strictly to two minutes per question and, if possible, refer to the written report to move forward faster.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u47	Mr President, I want to understand the emergencies, but I also think that my questions are urgent. There's a timeline. If we proceed in this way, honestly, there are sixty questions and therefore a lot of urgency. In that case, let us organize a commission more quickly! I have other obligations, I have to attend other commissions. Do so, take these questions about Egypt! I'll come back with my questions next week, but I don't think that's a way to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u48	I note that there are therefore objections. Colleagues, we'll try to move fast. There are still questions that need to be addressed at the end of the session.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u49	Mr President, it is a pity that we did not address this issue at the beginning of the sitting in the order of business. We are indeed flexible, but I hear Mr Crombez's objections. I propose that the questions relating to Palestine be referred back this afternoon, since we have two hearings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u50	Mr President, it has been a long time since I sat not only in this committee but also in Parliament to tell you that with all due respect for Mr. Ben Achour – I am very sensitive to the subject myself and we have all been questioned, as have the minister – if we want to implement and change an agenda, we must do so at the beginning of the sitting so that all the Commissioners present can organize themselves. Indeed, what Mr Crombez has just explained is quite understandable. There can be no differentiation according to what is considered urgent or not. I can assure you that the situation in Afghanistan is very urgent too. Where do we put the cursor? I just wish we could have a regulation, apply it and stick to it. This is the fairest and most egalitarian way to deal with all the issues we wish to address in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u51	Mr President, in terms of methodology, I agree with my colleague Jadin. Such a change must be reported at the beginning of the commission meeting, so that everyone can position themselves. I regret that this is happening in this way, because we are wasting time instead of gaining time. I would also like to point out to my colleague that I am very concerned about the situation in Egypt, as my question No 55006071C, which deals with it and is not at the end of the agenda, shows. I would therefore like us to move forward as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u52	Thank you, Mr De Maegd, and note that this change of agenda raises objections. In order to move as quickly as possible, I would remind you that inquiries are scheduled at the end of the meeting. We will not be able to exhaust the sixty items on the agenda. We therefore turn to the debate on Afghanistan, beginning with Mrs Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u53	Minister, despite the health crisis of the VOCID-19, the world continues to turn. According to the UN, violence is increasing in Afghanistan, despite an agreement to withdraw foreign forces signed in February 2020. How do you analyze the situation on the spot?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u54	Mrs Jadin, the situation in Afghanistan is worrying. The United States entered into an agreement with the Taliban on 29 February and on the same day issued a joint statement with the Afghan Government. The aim was to reduce violence, to start an intra-Afghan dialogue that would lead to a peace process, a peace and conciliation agreement and a ceasefire. The release of prisoners slipped into the agreement at the last minute. The Afghan government, which is not part of the agreement with the Taliban, has already released nearly 1,000 prisoners. On the other hand, the Taliban reportedly captured new people to claim to release them later. The Afghan people need peace after more than forty years of war. It is primarily the Afghans, the Government and the Taliban who must make peace between them, but the international community obviously has its role to play. Before the summer, it can be verified whether there is already a reduction in US troops to about 8,600 units, the number that was present in the summer of 2018. A further reduction depends on the situation on the ground and can be considered in NATO after 135 days, i.e. mid-June 2020. Only when the number of Americans clearly falls below 8,600 units could the other members of the coalition begin to withdraw. If the Taliban is to cooperate with the European Union as part of an alliance government, a process of negotiation must now be launched in good faith. Now the Taliban operate with force on the ground from the logic of power. With what I see today, I do not see any willingness on their part to reach a negotiated solution. That has to change. Hopefully, the political agreement in Kabul on Sunday 17 May 2020 between President Ghani and former Prime Minister Abdullah Abdullah will help. It is too early to assess the full impact of COVID-19 on Afghanistan, but it can be large. Afghanistan is one of the poorest countries in the world, partly due to 40 years of conflict. So it has a weak health system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answers. We will have to follow this situation very closely. It is not enough for the difficult agreement to be reviewed, but the safeguard of democracy in Afghanistan must be ensured.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u56	Mr President, Minister, on 3 May last was World Press Freedom Day, an opportunity to remind us that if we are lucky enough to live in a country where the latter is free, it is unfortunately far from being the case everywhere. I am thinking here of Algeria, an example among many others, where in recent weeks the current government has arrested many anti-regime activists, members of the Hirak movement, as well as journalists who have given them the floor or covered the protest of recent months. In mid-April, the Minister of Communication admitted that he had blocked two independent online media without warning. A few days earlier, a TV5 Monde correspondent was arrested – and he was still in pre-trial detention at the time I wrote my question – as he filmed the demonstrations and shared his images on social networks. He is accused of "damaging the integrity of the national territory". This is one example among others. Minister, this is obviously unacceptable. We are witnessing a real judicial harassment. In view of this situation, is it possible, in consultation with your European counterparts, to plead with the Algerian authorities for respect for freedom of the press and freedom of expression? What are the levers that the Member States of the European Union could leverage in this direction? Have any contacts been made in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u57	Mr President, Mr De Maegd, like you, I am aware of the difficult circumstances in which the Algerian press must carry out its work. Several reports refer to the deterioration of freedom of information in Algeria. This situation is confirmed by Reporters Without Borders, which ranks 146th out of 180 countries in the world press freedom index for this year. This country lost five places compared to the 2019 ranking. In principle, this freedom is guaranteed by article 50 of the Algerian Constitution, which also prohibits the imprisonment of journalists for press and opinion offences. The promotion of freedom of the press and of freedom of expression and peaceful association is one of the most prominent priorities of our country's foreign policy, especially in times of crisis – as is currently the case with the VOCID-19 pandemic, which makes even more obvious the importance of a free and independent press. It is clear that freedom of the press is essential and universal and that everyone should be able to invoke it without distinction, both in Belgium and abroad. Our country systematically promotes this right in its bilateral relations as well as within the European Union or in multilateral forums such as the United Nations. Thus, Belgium – like any other Member State of the European Union – co-sponsored the resolution on the safety of journalists and the issue of impunity, which was negotiated last year in the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly. In the previous year, the twenty-eight member States of the European Union had also co-sponsored a resolution on the same subject in the Human Rights Council. Our country also strongly supports the mandate of the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression. With regard to the letter from Reporters Without Borders, Belgium supports in principle the independent role of the special procedures of the Human Rights Council and encourages all countries to issue a standing invitation to all special procedures. Algeria has not yet done so. I would also like to draw your attention to the recent statement by High Representative and Vice-President Josep Borrell on World Press Freedom Day, which took place on 3 May. He recalled the importance of freedom of expression and expressed concern that, in some countries, the VOCID-19 pandemic was used as a pretext for imposing undue restrictions on press freedom. My European counterparts and I are aware of these challenges. We must remain vigilant in the face of this worrying development and continue our efforts to defend freedom of expression. As you know, Mr De Maegd, the European Union's new strategic framework in terms of human rights and democracy, as well as the European Union's action plan in this area, have set themselves the objective of placing the protection and monitoring of human rights at the centre of all European policies. The priorities of the partnership between the Union and Algeria are divided into five parts, including that of governance and fundamental rights. It goes without saying that the European Union will continue to engage in an open and constructive dialogue with the Algerian authorities on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for that answer. I believe that the European Union is an indispensable lever to exert effective pressure on the Algerian authorities in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I believe that both Belgium and the European Union could publicly support Reporters Without Borders' request that a thorough investigation be conducted by the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the right to health, but also by his counterpart in charge of the right to freedom of opinion and expression in that country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u60	Mrs Samyn, a video conference of the European Foreign Ministers led by the European Commission's foreign representative Josep Borrell took place on 22 April. The agenda included the state of play of the Turkey deal and the writing of the Maltese Foreign Minister. Following the meeting on 9 March between Ursula von der Leyen and Charles Michel with President Erdogan, it was agreed that the EU foreign chief Borrell and the Turkish Foreign Minister Cavusoglu would take stock of the state of play on the Turkey deal. The writing of the Maltese Foreign Minister was also on the agenda. He expressed his fear of new large migratory flows towards Europe. That fear is now shared by Frontex. Following his contact with Turkish President Erdogan at the beginning of March, the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, invited the High Representative and Vice-President of the Borrell Commission to hold consultations with Turkey on the implementation of the 2016 EU-Turkey Declaration. This work has not yet been completed. Three working groups were set up, in particular on migration, on Facility for Refugees in Turkey and on the humanitarian situation. The situation in Libya was indeed discussed at the informal video meeting of the EU Foreign Ministers on 22 April. It is regrettable that, despite the international calls and the COVID-19 situation, fighting continues and even intensifys. A ceasefire is needed so that the political process can make a start on resolving the conflict. There was agreement that only if the situation in Libya is stabilised can a lasting solution be found for migration challenges. Frontex's annual report was not in itself discussed at this video conference of Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u61	Mr. Secretary, the noise wasn't so good. I did not understand whether Malta's letter was being dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u62	On the agenda was the writing of the Maltese Foreign Minister, expressing his fear of new large migratory flows towards Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Already on 9 April Malta reported that it could not guarantee the inclusion of new migrants during the corona pandemic. Malta is rightly concerned. 2019 was already a record year for Malta with 3.046 migrants arriving in Valletta. The first two months of this year already 16 times more migrants came to land. Malta has already warned against a new large wave of migration. Frontex and the European Asylum Support Service also warned about this recently. What about Malta's call for aid on the ground, in the region of origin, to counter a new influx of illegal immigrants?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u64	Mr President, Minister, in order to enforce the arms embargo on Libya, the European Union has launched a new operation called IRINI, which will last until 31 March. The main task is the implementation of the United Nations embargo by air, satellite and maritime means. Secondary tasks include illegal exports from Libya, the dismantling of migrant smuggling networks and the training of Libyan coastguards and the Libyan navy. Minister, will Belgium participate in the IRINI mission? If so, how does she intend to contribute to this mission?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u65	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, at present Belgium does not envisage short- and medium-term participation in Operation IRINI, since the operational maritime capabilities available are currently planned under NATO. On 31 March, the IRINI mission was officially launched by the European Union. This mission has naval, air and satellite capabilities. IRINI began operations at sea in early May. This is a mission of vital importance to the European Union, particularly in the light of the instability and deterioration of the situation in Libya which has accelerated in recent weeks. This is the direct neighbourhood of the European Union. At the Belgian level, we urge that the IRINI mission be accompanied by a diplomatic action plan to which IRINI must support. Last week, Malta announced that it had objections to the financing of the mission. In the meantime, it would appear that this problem has been resolved. As you know, the IRINI mission is fully within the framework of United Nations Security Council resolutions 1970, 2292 and 2473. Therefore, no new resolution for the launch of IRINI was necessary. It should be noted, however, that resolution 2473 on the arms embargo on Libya will expire next month. Discussions on its renewal will therefore begin shortly in the Security Council. Russia's position on this issue will be decisive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u67	Mr President, Minister, recently the Yemeni separatists, who have been at war with government forces for many years, declared the autonomy of the southern part of the country, when recently a peace agreement had been reached. This agreement attributed control of the strategic port city of Aden to the Yemeni government. By declaring its autonomy, the separatists had therefore definitively broken the peace agreement. In the north of the country, the internationally recognized Yemeni government must also face up to the Huthis rebels, who already have much of the north under their control. The situation is desperate for the government still in place, which seems, without international assistance, to count its last days of existence. The world continues to turn. Minister, our country is no longer in true diplomatic relations with the Yemeni authorities. I would still like to hear from you about the current situation. Can you and do you want to look forward to the very worrying development that has taken place in Yemen for many years now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u68	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, Belgium still maintains diplomatic relations with the internationally recognised Yemeni government. At the end of March 2020, the Yemeni government entered its fifth year of conflict against the Huthis rebels. The latter have under their control a series of territories located in the north of the country. In the south, the independence movement called the Southern Transition Council (STC) announced on 25 April the self-government of the southern territories, initially disavowing the Riyadh agreement. The agreement was concluded under Saudi mediation between the Yemeni Government and the representatives of the STC, including the management of the southern part of the country. The United Nations Security Council, of which Belgium is a non-permanent member, quickly expressed its great concern at this announcement and reiterated its support for the unity, sovereignty and integrity of Yemen's territory. The CTC has since reiterated its support for the United Nations-led political process and is ready to engage effectively in discussions with the Yemeni government. However, the situation in Yemen remains very worrying. Despite the arrival of the coronavirus pandemic and the extension of the ceasefire announced by the Saudi-led coalition, fighting continues on the ground. Once again, the civilian population and especially children are the first victims of this conflict. Belgium continues to advocate for unimpeded access to humanitarian assistance in the Security Council and other multilateral fora and in its bilateral contacts. We regret the obstruction of humanitarian assistance and remind the parties of their obligations to respect international humanitarian law. We call on all parties to the conflict to exercise restraint, to respect a national ceasefire and to engage effectively in a political process led by the United Nations. We fully support the efforts of Special Envoy Martin Griffiths. Only an inclusive political solution can be envisaged for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u69	Minister, thank you. Indeed, only an inclusive policy will be able to bring solutions to the region that is experiencing increasing turmoil. You're talking about Libya. I was telling you about my Yemeni concerns. Others will tell you about Egypt. It is imperative, Mr Minister, as you know, that we should be able to take on our own colours in our political action to defend human rights. I know that you are putting the weight of Belgium very high on the Security Council. However, we will still have a lot of work to do in the months and years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u70	Mrs Jadin, like you, I am very close to developments in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia via the Belgian Embassy in Riyadh and the services here in Brussels. I have taken note of the communiqué of the Human Rights Commission of Saudi Arabia informing us that the country would no longer apply the punishment of flogging or the death penalty to juvenile offenders. Saudi Arabia's official communication confirms this, including in cases related to terrorism. This new Royal Decree is an extension of the Juvenile Delinquency Act introduced in 2018. It is important that the Royal Decree has retroactive effect and that it also covers convictions related to terrorism. This is an important step for Saudi Arabia. However, the amendment of the law would not in principle apply to the seven crimes of Islamic law. Thus, this change only partially aligns Saudi law with its international obligations, including the Convention on the Rights of the Child. In addition, it remains important that the announced reforms be implemented by letter and that the measures to implement the decree be made public. Belgium has a principled position on the death penalty and calls on each country applying the death penalty to establish an official moratorium on executions as the first step towards the complete abolition of the death penalty. Through the messages of Crown Prince Mohamed bin Salmane, the country has, on several occasions in recent years, referred to socio-economic reforms with a 2030 vision and reforms in the field of human rights. Belgium encourages these reforms that Saudi Arabia is undertaking, and recognizes their societal scale. At the same time, I would like to continue to stress the importance of implementing these reforms equally for all, including implementation for all, while respecting the international obligations that the country has undertaken. There are still major human rights challenges, particularly with regard to the protection of freedom of expression, association and the press, both online and offline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u71	Minister, thank you for your well-substantiated answer. We had, last week, at the request of my colleague, Mr. De Maegd, very important hearings with representatives of the protection of human rights around the world to take stock of situations. It is clear that Saudi Arabia still happens to be a country where much remains to be done in terms of human rights protection and equality. Even if there is no reason to rejoice, we can still be cautiously optimistic about these small advances. I have every confidence in our Belgian ambassador in Saudi Arabia to use all his diplomatic skills to advance the issues in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, we have little time left and we must move on to the inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u73	Mr President, forgive me, we have 25 minutes and I think there is ample time to ask the question I had planned on Egypt. So there is no problem with my question with the remaining 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u74	Mr De Maegd, I am sorry, but there are six questions about China on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u75	Mr President, I agree to refer my question 55005763C on Palestine to item 14 of the agenda in order to save time, but I believe that item 12 of the agenda should be addressed. You wanted to change the agenda of this committee to talk about Egypt, so let's talk about Egypt in order!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u76	I didn't want to change the calendar. I was simply answering a question from two members of this House and, in response to objections, we maintained the agenda as it was set. I therefore propose that you move very quickly to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u77	Mr President, Minister, we were talking earlier about freedom of the press. The situation of journalists around the world still raises many questions. Last November, two journalists and a lawyer were arrested and allegedly raped in Cairo by agents of the National Security Agency. Solafa Magdy, Hossam el Sayed and Mohamed Salah were detained after having been questioned extensively about their work history and the media for which they work. They were promptly accused of belonging to a terrorist group and, for two of them, of spreading false news. Several NGOs consider these accusations totally false and denounce the arbitrary detention of prisoners of conscience, whose only crime is to have wanted to exercise their profession by denouncing human rights violations. This type of process is not unique and is not new. He was also denounced in a report published in 2019 by Amnesty International, which believed that the Egyptian authorities were using a system of "parallel justice" in order to suppress any opposition to the President. I would add, Minister, that since the introduction of this question, the editor-in-chief of an independent newspaper, critical of the regime in place, has also been arrested this Sunday. The health crisis that we all face has an impact on this situation. Indeed, Mrs Magdy's relatives, for example, find themselves deprived of any contact with her and fear for her safety, fearing that she will be disciplined. Minister, are you aware of this issue? If so, do you have any recent information on the situation of these three detainees? Have they, to your knowledge, been the subject of international discussions? Finally, with regard to the situation of press freedom in Egypt more broadly, and this goes along with some of my previous questions, how can we act, alone or with other countries? Have policies been or will they be in place in the future to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u78	Mr De Maegd, first of all, I would like to clarify things. You allowed yourself to skip two questions that were on the agenda. To save time, I propose to refer to the written report for my attached question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u79	Minister, the International Federation of Journalists, based in Brussels, has 187 journalists' unions and associations in 140 countries, representing more than 600,000 journalists worldwide.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u80	Mr President, Mr De Maegd, like you, I am aware of the extremely difficult situation in which the Egyptian press must carry out its work. Several reports indicate that freedom of information in Egypt is further deteriorating, which is also confirmed by Reporters Without Borders, which ranked Egypt 166th out of 180 countries in the world press freedom index in 2020. Egypt fell by three places compared to 2019. I share your concern about the imprisonment of the journalists mentioned. I assure you that the Belgian Embassy in Cairo and my services in Brussels closely monitor the situation of press freedom and the human rights situation in Egypt. During the last universal periodic review in November 2019, Belgium recommended that Egypt amend laws that, among other things, are a concern for their negative effect on freedom of expression. As you know, the European Union's new strategic framework for human rights and democracy, as well as the European Union's action plan in this area, are aimed at placing the protection and respect of human rights at the centre of all European Union policies, including in its relations with Egypt. The priorities of the partnership between Europe and Egypt are divided into three main priorities, including a governance and fundamental rights component. More comprehensively, I would like to stress the vital role played by a free, independent and reliable press, which is an important indicator of a democratic and open society. It can only function properly if the citizens are well informed. Freedom of the press guarantees the right of every citizen to have neutral information. It guarantees the right not to agree, to say it and to disseminate it on as many media as necessary, and as often as necessary. The promotion of freedom of expression and association is one of the priorities of Belgian foreign policy. Freedom of the press, which is part of it, is essential for the enjoyment and realization of a wide range of human rights as a whole. Many journalists work under difficult conditions and are often targeted by individuals or organizations who wish to restrict freedom of expression. On the occasion of the International Press Freedom Day, which took place on 3 May, I paid tribute to journalists from all over the world who lost their lives while practising their profession. States must ensure adequate protection of journalists and that perpetrators of acts of violence or intimidation against journalists are held accountable and prosecuted. Our country promotes freedom of the press systematically in its bilateral relations as well as at European Union level, within multilateral forums such as the United Nations and others. For example, Belgium, like the other Member States of the European Union, co-sponsored the resolution on the safety of journalists and the issue of impunity that was negotiated in the Third Committee at the United Nations General Assembly last year. Finally, we are not currently aware of a specific draft resolution on the killing of journalists that would be introduced by the International Federation of Journalists to the United Nations General Assembly. I would like to make it clear that, in principle, only States members of the United Nations have the opportunity to introduce draft resolutions. We will, of course, continue to follow closely all initiatives in multilateral formats, such as the United Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Council of Europe or the European Union, aimed at promoting freedom of expression, including freedom of the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u81	Mr President, I am abstaining from a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u82	Minister, thank you for your answers. I invite you to be very vigilant about the specific cases of Solafa Magdy, Hossam el Sayed and Mohamed Salah that I mentioned. We can press in Belgium, through bilateral contacts and within the framework of the United Nations or the European Union, to try to improve things with regard to press freedom in Egypt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u83	Mr President, I am appealing to the Rules of Procedure. I don't understand anything! I don't know where we are in our series of questions. Mr. Crombez left us, maybe a little disappointed or disgusted. What's going to happen? Will we start a debate with six speakers, while we have 16 minutes left? Is this serious?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u84	Mr Flahaut, I have no choice. The Rules oblige us to deal with questions about China because two motions must be read. I've been saying it for over a quarter of an hour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u85	Mr President, why is the Rules of Procedure imposing this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u86	Mr President, I am asking for this debate, which is important. It can be carried out quickly, it is not necessary to make long presentations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u87	Questions No 55005701C by Mr Cogolati, No 55005758C by Mr Crombez, No 55005763C by Mr Crombez. De Maegd, No 55006119C by M. Ben Achour, No. 55006239C by Mr. De Smet, No. 55005781C of Mr. Cogolati, No. 55005816C of Mr. Flahaut, No. 55005782C of Mr. Cogolati, No. 55005790C of Mr. Ben Achour, No 55005897C of Mrs Van Bossuyt and No 55006199C of Mr Van Bossuyt. From Maegd are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u88	Minister, the international press reports that, according to a 15-page report by several intelligence agencies (United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Australia and New Zealand), China has reportedly destroyed evidence of the appearance of coronavirus in its laboratories and silenced the doctors concerned about the ability of the virus to spread between humans. Moreover, some of them have disappeared. In addition, the Chinese authorities reportedly refused to provide live samples to global specialists working on a vaccine. Minister, could you tell me what information you have on this subject? Have our security services, including intelligence, received a copy or contributed to this report? Are our intelligence services working on this issue of the erasure of evidence by the Chinese authorities? Mr President, if I may, I will go on with my next question. Minister, on April 21, the Sûreté de l'Etat published an interesting brochure entitled The Hidden Danger Behind the Covid-19. Extremism, potential interference and damage to economic and scientific potential. It was a good communication, which in general clearly named the stakes: right-wing extremism, pro-Russian communication, extreme left. Russia is also widely cited - at least six times in this short booklet - as a serious danger. I don't complain about it. I might as well call a cat a cat. On the other hand, the chapter "Protection of economic and scientific potential", which calls for "vigilance against foreign powers that covet strategic takeovers of firms in difficulty", does not refer to any particular country. It is suddenly vague as to the origin of the threats. Yet we know that it is indeed China. Since 2010, several confidential State Security reports have warned about the risks and attempts of bio-espionage by Chinese officials in Brussels towards vaccine specialists and pharmaceutical companies. One cannot help but think that a self-censorship or, worse still, that Chinese pressure has been exerted to spare this country, whose threat to our economic interests and our democratic model is clearly known. There are many recent cases of China's intimidation of European governments. Minister, why such a brochure? How is it distributed to individuals and institutions that can benefit from such warnings? What is its impact on the companies concerned? Do you share the analysis of many observers that China is taking advantage of the coronavirus crisis to try to buy Belgian and/or foreign companies cheaply, especially in strategic areas of high technology (I am thinking in particular of biology)? Why don't you say it? Did China exert pressure to sweeten certain passages of the note? Did the State Security prefer to anticipate China's wrath and not name it? More generally, how is this very aggressive diplomacy of China exercised over our services, which is such that today any criticism of its attitude is immediately subject to threats of retaliation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u89	Mr Minister, I will make my introduction brief. The consequences of the spread of the coronavirus are painfully felt worldwide, not just in terms of public health. In economic and geopolitical terms, too, we are at risk of going into an unprecedented crisis. The People's Republic of China's share and the responsibility of the communist regime have been raised on several occasions; indeed, there are a lot of questions and uncertainties and little or no answers or transparency. It is therefore high time that our country, a founding member of the EU, was a member of the UN Security Council and in many other international bodies, developed a vision and expressed that vision in all relevant fora. In addition, it is very important for my group that we, as a asking party, join the demand to conduct an independent investigation into the truth and the negligence of the communist regime in China. It is also crucial that we are critical of the outsourcing of our macro-economy to China and that we therefore secure our strategic sectors. Minister, what steps has the government already taken to draw China's attention to its responsibility and to address the irregularities and abuses? Will the government support the demand of a number of Western countries and plead for an independent international investigation into the true cause and approach of the crisis by China? Finally, will the government urge the European Union to limit the outsourcing of our macro-economy and safeguard our strategic sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u90	Mr President, I would just like to point out to the committee that I am tabling a simple motion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u91	Colleagues, I propose that you deal with both motions after hearing the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u92	Mr President, if I may, I also had a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u93	Very soon, then, your first question about China, Mrs Van Bossuyt.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u94	I will not repeat everything that has already been said. My question concerns in particular the possible influence on the use of words in the latest report of the European External Action Service under the influence of China. I have three questions about that. Firstly, was Belgium at any time approached by Chinese diplomats in connection with the reporting and reporting in our country? Was there, for example, an allusion or urge to reduce China's share of the corona crisis? Secondly, how did Belgium react or how will it react? Does this affect diplomatic relations with China? Finally, were the European or NATO authorities informed about this? Is there a collection of information up there somewhere?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u95	Mr President, at the moment, in full sanitary crisis, our priority continues to be to control the pandemic and international cooperation, particularly with China, with a view to making the necessary medical supplies available. At this stage, it is premature to draw any conclusions regarding the management of the health crisis by China and the origin of the VOCID-19. With regard to matters relating to our security services and their possible involvement in the preparation of the report recently published by several Western intelligence agencies, I would like to refer you to my colleague, the Minister of Justice, Koen Geens, who exercises oversight over State Security. Once this health crisis has been overcome, there will undoubtedly be a need for an objective, transparent and thorough analysis of it. At its last meeting on 1 May, the IHR, the World Health Organisation's Emergency Committee, explicitly advised the WHO to carry out a thorough investigation into the root causes of the COVID-19 pandemic. Belgium endorses this recommendation, which should lead to a comprehensive evaluation of the COOVID-19 pandemic. In response to this recommendation, Belgium has again tabled a resolution approving the World Health Assembly. This resolution calls on the WHO, in close cooperation with the Food and Agriculture Organisation and the World Organisation for Animal Health, to look for the animal source of this virus and how it was transmitted to humans. Belgium believes that the WHO is best placed to conduct this research as a UN technical organisation for health. Furthermore, the WTO, including at EU level, is putting pressure on China to open up the circumstances that led to the outbreak of the virus in Wuhan. Therefore, although I fully support the need for international transparency in relation to COVID-19, this is not the responsibility of the UN Security Council. Therefore, Belgium will not take any initiative in the framework of its mandate in the Security Council. Chinese disinformation efforts are being followed with great attention in the framework of the European Union, NATO and the United Nations. In the beginning of the COVID-19 crisis in China, my services were approached by Chinese diplomats in connection with the corona caricatures in some Belgian media. In this context, Chinese criticism was directed at xenophobia and discrimination. I also received a letter from the Chinese ambassador. So far, my services have not been approached by Chinese diplomats in connection with Belgian reporting and reporting on China's share of the corona crisis. So far, no pressure has been put on my services to reduce China's share of this crisis. In order to manage the economic impact of the VOCID-19 crisis as effectively as possible, efforts have been made at European level for a coordinated economic response to this health crisis. In particular, initiatives have been taken at both European and Belgian level to prevent entities or third countries from taking advantage of this crisis in an attempt to buy Belgian or European companies at low prices in strategic areas. In this regard, on 25 March 2020, the Commission issued recommendations for Member States to use their filtering mechanisms and other possible tools in the context of this period of health crisis and economic vulnerability in the European Union. The European Regulation on the filtering of foreign direct investment, which will be applied from 11 October 2020, creates a cooperation mechanism through which Member States and the Commission will be able to exchange information and raise their concerns about specific investments. At this stage, the arrangements for implementing the obligations laid down in the Regulation at Belgian level are still being drawn up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u96	Minister, I would like to call on you to remain vigilant and on our guard against possible Chinese influence here. Last week, for example, we read reports about possible Chinese espionage in the European institutions. Josep Borrell, the High Representative, said earlier that there had been no influence in the preparation of the report of the European External Action Service, but has now returned to his words and admitted that this was the case. I would certainly check and look at everything twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u97	Minister, thank you for your answer and for your insistence on continuing to press China for full transparency. I believe that this transparency is indeed indispensable. Today, China claims that it has worked properly. The only way to verify this is to conduct a thorough investigation. It is not clear in your reply whether Belgium has specifically addressed this request to China. I would like to know whether Belgium itself has taken steps to demand this transparency. I think it's very important. I call for vigilance and I also call for a cat, a cat! When there are attacks on our interests on the part of a third country, we must not take refuge behind the generic term "third country". If it is indeed China, we must be able to say so, as we say in relation to other countries. I believe that we must refuse to submit to this intimidation by the Chinese services, which we know in many respects. I have been the subject of this, also as a parliamentarian, and I stress that it is absolutely necessary, in a country of democracy and freedom, to refuse this intimidation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u98	Mr President, I find it particularly regrettable that I have not been able to ask my question, I tried to call but was not accepted. I tried calling for 20 minutes, but the secretary wouldn't let me in. I was let in late, because a coffee had to be picked up or I don't know. I really don't think that's a way of working. Minister, I have also tabled a resolution on China's position and I hope that it can also be dealt with urgently. I regret that Belgium is hiding behind the WTO. China has once again been strongly influenced by China's research through the WHO. A lot of conditions have been set. It won't be until the end of the corona crisis. China determines the agenda and who exactly comes as an independent. There is no reference to Wuhan, where of course it started. It's all very, very steered. I insist on the need for full independent clarification and that Belgium, as a Western country and as a NATO Member State, should ask for clarity about China's position. We cannot continue to tolerate this. We have been far too naive towards China in recent years. The Chinese espionage is well known. It is necessary that Belgium, together with the other NATO partners, is clearly on its side and that we do not let the Chinese roll over us any further. That's my point. A resolution is coming, and I hope that the debate can continue if I am allowed in on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u99	Mr President, Minister, your answer was somewhat disappointing. You say it's too early to draw conclusions. I think the demand for independent international research can never come early enough. At present, there are many signs and suspicions that are starting to resound louder and come from more and more countries. More than ever, there is a question of promoting transparency. We do not need to wait until the epidemic is over, as China and the World Health Organisation are now suggesting. The fact that both China and the World Health Organisation are now openly saying that they will conduct and support an independent investigation seems, frankly, not plausible to me, to say it with a euphemism. They do so only under specific conditions, namely that such an evaluation is carried out by international scientists under the auspices of the WHO. From the moment the words independent and WHO are used in one sentence when it comes to China, it is known that it will be a measure of nothing. In addition, the Chinese government remains committed to the statement that they have always been transparent, since the discovery of the virus, that they have always cooperated and have freely shared all the data, well. If it is somewhat similar to the fact that the European Union immediately gave in to the Chinese censorship, when that crucial passage in the opinion contribution had to be removed, that does not, frankly, promise much good. We therefore ask, on behalf of the Flemish Interest, by means of a motion of recommendation, that the government, as a requesting party, should join in an international independent investigation into the root cause of the outbreak of the COVID-19 virus and the negligence of the communist regime in China. We also call for this initiative to be expressed and urged in international fora. We also call on the government to maintain strategic sectors and the production of important strategic stocks within the European Union in order to ensure that the current situation, in which we no longer have any control over the supply chain, is reversed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u100	Mr. Chairman, since the time has expired for the minister, I would just like to point out that I am tabling a simple motion in response to Ms. Ponthier's inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-19-55-commissie-ic179x.u101	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Annick Ponthier and the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Defence, - whereas the first case of COVID-19 was established in China in autumn 2019; - whereas since then the virus has spread rapidly throughout the world; - whereas the Chinese Government was aware of the development of the new virus long before the World Health Organisation (WHO) and the rest of the world were officially informed; - whereas more than 1.5 million people worldwide have been diagnosed with COVID-19 and more than 100 000 have died as a result of the infection; - whereas on 11 March 2020 the WHO declared the outbreak of COVID-19 a global pandemic; - whereas this global pandemic has significant consequences not only in terms of public health but also in economic and geopolitical terms; - having regard to the fact that the share of the People's Republic of China and the responsibility of the Communist regime in this regard is increasingly questioned, - having regard to the fact that Western reports accuse the Chinese Government of deliberately hiding or destroying evidence of the outbreak of the virus; - taking into account that it is crucial that we should be critical of. outsourcing of our macro-economics to China and securing our strategic sectors; asks the government to: - as a requesting party, will be associated with the conduct of an international independent investigation into the root cause of the outbreak of the COVID-19 virus and the negligence of the Communist regime in China; - expresses this initiative and urges international fora such as the EU, the WHO and the UN Security Council; - calls on the EU to keep strategic sectors and the production of key strategic stocks, such as medicines and medical devices, within the EU, in order to reverse the current situation in which most of the supply chain has moved and is not under EU Member States' control." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mrs. Annick Ponthier and the response of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence, - Whereas the first case of VOCID-19 was found in autumn 2019 in China; - Whereas, since then, the virus has spread rapidly throughout the world; - Considering that the Chinese Government was aware of the development of the new virus well before the World Health Organization (WHO) and that the rest of the world was officially informed of this; - Whereas on a global scale, VOCID-19 has been diagnosed in more than 1.5 million people and more than 100,000 people have died after being contaminated; - Whereas on 11 March 2020, the WHO elevated the coronavirus epidemic to a global pandemic; Whereas this global pandemic has considerable consequences, not only in terms of public health but also in terms of economic and political aspects; - in view of the fact that the share of the People's Republic of China and the responsibility of the Chinese communist regime are increasingly being called into question; - the fact that Western reports accuse the Chinese government of deliberately concealing or destroying evidence of the virus's invasion; - given that it is of crucial importance that we take a critical attitude towards outsourcing our macro-economy to China and that we need to secure our strategic sectors; Requests that the Government: - joins requests for an independent international investigation into the root cause of the outbreak of the VOCID-19 and the neglect of the Chinese communist regime; - take a clear initiative in this direction and insist on the organisation of such an inquiry in the international forums of the EU, WHO and the UN Security Council; - calls on the EU to ensure that strategic sectors and the protection of important strategic stocks, such as medicines and medical devices, are maintained within the EU, in order to reverse the current situation in which most of the supply chain is relocated and beyond the control of the EU Member States." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Michel De Maegd and Mr André Flahaut. A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Michel De Maegd and André Flahaut. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
