ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u2	Colleagues, let's start with Question Time. We agreed at the Conference of Presidents that Members who ask questions should also take their place at the front of one of the two puppets. Several groups had pointed out that ministers responded in the first place, while MEPs remained in place. One may continue to do so, but anyone who prefers it may also come forward to ask his question. It'll make sure everything goes clean.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u3	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this Wednesday the President of the European Commission presented a plan to relaunch an unprecedented effort of EUR 750 billion, which is still to be approved by the 27 Member States at the summit on 19 June. The logic of this plan is revolutionary: it finally goes beyond national selfishness, since it is indeed a question of helping the countries whose economy suffered most during this crisis of several months, and of avoiding at all costs the recession. A full European solidarity that has almost federal accents that do good today. We must agree, Europe is this time at the time that history gives it. But will Belgium be? At a time when Europe has been experiencing its most serious economic crisis in more than 50 years, everyone is taking this step: there is no alternative but to save our businesses, our self-employed, our non-market sector in order to avoid a social tragedy which, in any case, will also have a severe impact on our finances. From left to right, I have heard in recent days, like everyone else, various recovery plans bloom and all have one thing in common: they advocate a massive influx of liquidity into our economy, as quickly as possible. Madam Prime Minister, it has been mentioned for Belgium that a sum of EUR 5.48 billion has been obtained. Do you have any details? Do you find that this amount is fair and equitable? Can you tell us about the investment sectors that would be involved? Are these all the companies affected by the crisis or are there requirements – Horeca, culture, those close to the economic or ecological and digital transition? How will other levels of power – regions, communities, as well as common – be affected? Are you going to concert them? Finally, does this European financial manna not oblige us, does it not commit us, as soon as possible, to finally form a majority government of full exercise to manage this revival in the most democratic and effective way possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u4	Madam Prime Minister, it is sometimes in difficult times that the most important and significant political decisions are made - those that make history. We ecologists consider the European Commission's proposal yesterday for a €750 billion post-coronavirus recovery plan to be a remarkable milestone in the construction of Europe for several reasons. First of all, this plan responds to the needs of massive public investment in the economy. Most of it will be financed in a sense of mutualisation of debts – that is, solidarity of the strongest states towards the most fragile states – as well as the development of own funds in the European Union, through an announced contribution from digital companies and the most polluting industries. It also preserves the means of ecological transition enshrined in the European Commission's Green Deal. Of course, everything has yet to be realized. We obviously still have questions about the amounts committed – will they be sufficient? – to the conditionality of the aids, to the temptation that will persist in some to pursue as before, instead of preparing tomorrow. At least, however, the European Commission has expressed a clear choice: to turn its back on the ravens, the frugals, these selfish countries guided by a narrow vision and which hinder the choices indispensable for the European future in terms of solidarity and ecological transition. We expect from our country and your Government, Mrs Wilmès, a clear signal of support for this Commission proposal, a signal of commitment to a more united European Union in the management of the post-pandemic and also greener, acting more firmly towards a redeployment of our economy that is more resilient and respectful of the Paris climate agreements. Madam Prime Minister, what will Belgium respond to the European Commission's proposal? Instead of following the narrow logic of the Radical countries, will ours be one of the generous, united and visionary states that will build the Europe of tomorrow?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u5	Mr President, Prime Minister, Voka wants us not to take a holiday this summer and to postpone the great holiday. Prime Minister Jan Jambon had already tried to postpone Mother's Day. Now Voka is trying to postpone the whole big vacation. That's revolting for three reasons. First of all, people really need a vacation. It has been a difficult time for everyone: for the people affected by COVID-19 or such cases in their families, for the people who have continued to work during that difficult period, being still two thirds of the workers, but also for the people forced into lockdown, often with two or three extra kids in the house, a load of extra home and school tasks to look after, with less income and more tension. Secondly, many people have, of course, already booked a holiday at the time when the schools will be closed, when they can go on holiday with their partner and not at another time. Thirdly, it is also important for the catering and tourism sectors that summer holidays should be allowed to continue. Tens of thousands of jobs depend on that. Madam Prime Minister, it is also particularly inappropriate for Voka to abuse the current crisis to warm up old and worn-out ideas. Colleagues, COVID-19 is not a microwave for old and bad proposals. Working days of 10 or 11 hours, night work and less social security contributions in the middle of the current crisis are old proposals. COVID-19 is not a microwave oven. That is why my question to you is very simple. Madam Prime Minister, can you guarantee that the postponement of the holiday in the coming weeks will not be on the agenda of the super-core? Can you guarantee that the corona crisis will not be abused to push forward the extension of working hours?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u6	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, I will ask you a question that I asked last week, and I hope to get an answer to it this time. It's about the catering business. You know the sector is on its gums. My question is simple. When can the cafés open the doors? When can we sit on a terrace? The overall loss amounts to approximately €47 million per day. In total, we are already at EUR 4 billion in damage and 55,000 jobs are under threat. However, for the sake of fairness, I must say that the opposite is also true. The opposite would even benefit the taxpayer, because there are many things that benefit from the large nuisance premium and the additional premium of EUR 160 per day. We are the only country in Europe that has not set a date. The Netherlands will open on 1 June, France on 2 June, Germany on 3 June and we will continue to play around. I heard the Minister of the Interior this week who said it would be before 8 June. I heard the GEES were gonna make a decision last night. Apparently that didn't happen, because there's nothing in the press. Also our virologists speak with a split tongue. If 50 people are allowed to go to youth camp today and 30 people are allowed to sit on a terrace at a wedding reception, isn't it perfectly normal to have 10, 15 or 20 people on a terrace? I hope that I will receive an answer and that you will give me a date on which the hospitality business may or may not reopen. We must give these people hope, because the sector is completely on its gums and the summer is coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u7	I give the floor to the new leader of the Open Vld group, Mr Van Quickenborne. May I congratulate you on your designation in one of the most beautiful functions in this hemisphere?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u8	Mr President, thank you for your congratulations. Madam Prime Minister, it has taken too long, but at last Europe is back. After months of hesitation and delay, we have a real Delors moment on our continent today. We are in the biggest crisis since the Second World War and our economy and prosperity are at stake. However, we have a simple choice, each for himself or all together. We cannot afford countries such as Spain and Italy to go down and drag other countries along, because our economies are inextricably linked. The package that the Commission is now putting on the table is a game changer, and our party is convinced of it. This bazooka will be able to restore the economy. Madam Prime Minister, our country must not hesitate, we must fully support this plan. We must do this on principle, because we belong to the founding fathers of Europe, but also because our country lives on export. Our companies make money from Europe and a strong European economy also means many Belgian jobs. However, I would also like to warn colleagues on the left. Mr Gilkinet, this package is not a blank cheque, it is subject to conditions. It refers explicitly to the European Semester and to the reforms needed in terms of productivity, labour market and pensions. Countries seeking support will therefore have to prove that they are making their economies more productive, smarter and greener. Madam Prime Minister, my question is very simple. Is our country 100% behind this plan? What steps should be taken now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u9	Madam Prime Minister, is the citizens' Europe waking up? Is Europe emerging from this nightmare of austerity and selfishness? Has the European Commission finally decided to go to the bedside of the women and men who have been and are still being bruised by the devastation of the VOCID-19? Not displeased by frugals, eurosceptics and other austerity fanas, Europe finally seems to be moving forward and, above all, learning from the recession that followed the 2008-2009 crisis. It's about time! It was time, when Europe was facing the greatest health and economic crisis in its history. It was time to give back hope to our citizens and air to our states. It was time to help our socio-economic fabric. It was time to support the public services and our social security, which once again proved their indispensable character despite the blows inflicted on the right. Yesterday, the President of the European Commission presented her recovery plan, an envelope of €750 billion. This plan would be based on the future European budget 2021-2027. My group has been asking for changes in European software for years, but we have always been told that this is impossible. It seems that this would have changed today. But it's not all won. We have just heard it, unanimity is required. The supporters of selfishness and the "less Europe" are already standing up, including in this assembly. Madam Prime Minister, what is the Belgian position on this recovery plan proposed by the Commission? More specifically, what are our red lines with regard to the Multiannual Financial Framework? Do you know more about the negotiating agenda when time is running out? What would be the consequences of this plan for our country? What amounts would be envisaged and what forms would they take?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, the European Commission's recovery plan is about the future and the unity of the European Union. The invisible virus has cost hundreds of thousands of lives, across borders, infected our economies and threatened to destroy the European Union. The European Commission's plan is the much-needed injection that we, as a Member State, but also as a European Union, need to be economically viable again. We are at a crossroads in European history. It is up to us to decide whether we are going to be on the side of the populists and the crooks, or whether we are going to be on the side of responsibility and solidarity? We choose the latter. The European Commission's recovery fund is united, responsible and daring: solidarity, because the desires and burdens are shared with a mix of grants and gifts, responsible, because it links the gifts and loans with the European Semester and productivity, but also with the important Green Deal, which our party attaches great importance to, and dares to, because the European Commission wants to repay the loans with new European taxes. It is very important that these taxes are fair: the polluters will pay, but also tax-evasive companies will pay via a digitalaks, which our party was already in favour of. It is therefore in our own best interest that there should be no inequality on the European continent, with some countries lagging behind. An open economy like Belgium needs a strong internal market. If everyone keeps up their own efforts, there will soon be no more beans, and that is why I have the following questions, Madam Prime Minister. What are your views on the European Recovery Fund? How will the resources be distributed? Do you have a look at the criteria yet? What are your views on the new European taxes, turnover taxes on multinational companies, the digitals and the carbon tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u11	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that I live on the European continent today and not in the United States. In the United States, Twitter must be enabled to counter and fact-check Mr Trump's nationalism and populism. There is hopeful news on our European continent, with hopefully a new chapter for the European Union: EUR 750 billion of hope and perspective, not only for our economy, but also for our citizens and therefore for our compatriots. Colleagues, as ecologists, we like Europe. In recent years, this has often been a hate-love relationship: believing in cooperation, believing in the strength of solidarity, but often critical of the substantive choices made, for example, after 2008, after the financial crisis, in Brussels and Strasbourg. I hope that a real new chapter has finally arrived, a Europe that is not only for the market and currency, but also for people and the environment. I would like to support 100% of the quasi-consensus in this hemisphere to support the European Commission's plan passionately, assertively and openly. Belgium needs Europe, but Europe also needs Belgium. I told you last week, Madam Prime Minister: I think we are sometimes too reluctant, too 'ifs' and'mars', and too little clarity. I understand that the complexity of our country, with the attitude of the Flemish Government, sometimes hinders you. I would really like to ask you, like Mr Van Quickenborne, and Mr Van Hoof, like the Socialist colleagues, to be quite clear on this point. My question is relatively simple. Yes, we need a full government to draw up a national investment plan, for example, to make a Belgian green deal, but today and the next few hours, days and weeks it is decided whether the Commission's plan will be approved or not. My only question to you, Prime Minister: will Belgium be an ally to that plan? Will you stand on the barricade for that? Will you dare raise your voice for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u12	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, yesterday the European Commission indeed proposed its plan for a new multiannual financial framework and the recovery fund, which was long awaited. Because of the corona crisis, Europe faces many challenges, not least in economic terms, and the recovery fund must respond to them. The Commission is proposing a plan with a fund of EUR 750 billion, which will consist of two thirds of grants and one third of loans. To repay all this, the Commission proposes a whole range of resources, such as a digital tax, a plastic tax, a CO2 border tax and a few others. The money will be distributed among the Member States via a certain distribution key. According to the first reports we have heard about this, Belgium, which has been seriously affected by the corona crisis, will receive EUR 5.48 billion. Countries such as the Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia, which are far less affected, would receive a multiple, sometimes three to four times as many. Madam Prime Minister, what position will Belgium take on the relationship between loans and subsidies? If subsidies are already granted, will Belgium be in favour of imposing conditions on them? Will Belgium support the new resources proposed by the European Commission? If so, will Belgium argue that it should be collected by the Member States and not by the European Union? Finally, what key will Belgium defend?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u13	I call the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u14	The economic consequences of this crisis are indeed considerable. As I said last week, at the beginning of April, the Planning Bureau and the National Bank of Belgium provided for a possible recession of about 8% for this year. The recession is likely to be even worse by 2020, and the recovery will also be slow in 2021. A distinction must be made between, on the one hand, the urgent strengthening of aid measures to help firms survive this crisis and, on the other hand, the revival. As I have already indicated, the relance is about structural decisions for our economy in the long term. This should ideally be the basis of the reforms that a next government will have to implement, and this should be done as soon as possible, since the relay cannot be delayed either. In just two months, we have already injected EUR 13 billion of aid into our economy. We have also agreed EUR 53 billion in bank guarantees and we are working on a second tranche of support measures. Indeed, some of the measures already taken will have to be extended. Others can be expanded in substance, and we will also have to take new measures, especially for the hardest affected sectors. We're working on that. The aim is to obtain broad political support for these measures. It is clear that measures relating to the organisation of work will have to be consulted with the social partners. Delaying holidays is not one of them. I am aware that the hospitality sector, like the cultural and event sector and many others whose recovery is taking place, is expecting concrete answers. A meeting of the National Security Council is scheduled for 3 June with a view to phase 3 of the phase-out. In-depth consultations are taking place between the catering sector and experts to define the conditions for reopening as soon as possible. The Federal Government, the Regions, the Sector Federation, the GEES and ERMG have been fully mobilised on this subject. The catering sector is very diverse. It is important to deal with all aspects of it. This is gonna take time. However, a good organisation is essential and in everyone's interest. However, discussions are progressing. Yesterday the protocol laying down the rules and practices for the protection of the health of staff and customers was already being worked on. This protocol can be applied in the catering business. The Consultation Committee is now working to stabilise all these elements which will form the basis for the discussion in the National Security Council on 3 June. In addition to the measures mentioned at national level, measures are on the European table. This Wednesday afternoon, the European Commission presented its proposals for the multi-annual budget 2021-2027 and for a temporary stimulus fund integrated into it. The aim is to raise €750 billion in financial markets in four years. These resources will be allocated up to EUR 500 billion in the form of grants and EUR 250 billion in the form of loans. These amounts will be fully allocated to the fund and programme of the multiannual budget of the European Union. On the basis of a first reading, it appears that the subsidies will be conditioned by the European Semester and the corresponding national reform plans. The European Commission's proposals seem to me to strike a fair balance between substantial subsidies on the one hand and loans on the other. The introduction of some form of conditionality also seems to me appropriate. Solidarity and responsibility go hand in hand – I have already said so several times. The first reading of the proposal shows that a third loan and two thirds grant are listed. These grants would be subject to the necessary reform conditions through the European Semester Mechanism and the National Recovery Plan integrated into it. This seems to me at first sight to correspond to what we consider important, in particular a balance between solidarity and responsibility. In the coming days, we must, of course, carry out a good analysis of the complex proposals and also carefully evaluate how this meets the European project, its values and its Belgian interests. I can say at this stage that Belgian interests will be viewed more broadly than net income figures. Our high degree of integration into the internal market and the fact that the EU is by far our first export market ensure that the proper functioning of the entire European economy also brings us indirect but tangible benefits. Moreover, it remains important for Belgium that the Green Deal, the Digital Transition but also research and innovation remain key points in the development of the European economy. Of course, we must also take account of the strengthening of our capacity in the field of health care. Either way, we will have to analyse the direct impact of the proposals on the federal budget. In this context, I would remind you that Belgium is in favour of extending the allowed flexibility on the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact, at least before 2021. Moreover, I made this point very clear at various meetings on this subject, even when I was Minister for the Budget. The figures circulating in the press on the amounts to which Belgium could claim are obviously based on a document which had allegedly leaked, the status of which is unknown. It is therefore difficult to decide on this matter. At this stage, Member States have not yet received precise information on the allocation keys used for the allocation of funds. Finally, I note that the Commission has put forward a number of proposals for new own resources. As I have already said in committee, we support the principle of these new own resources. Of course, as with everything, a full and detailed analysis of the proposals put on the table will be required. As with every European issue, this position will obviously be agreed at the DGE meeting, which, I would remind you, brings together representatives of the federal and federated entities for a summit scheduled for mid-June. A concrete proposal is therefore on the table. We look forward to it. I repeat, for me, there is a fair balance between subsidies and loans. The aim is, of course, to reach an agreement of 27; but like you, I feel that Europe has decided to take a turning point, an important turning point, a turning point that corresponds to its values of solidarity, but also of responsibility. One goes with the other. As far as Belgium is concerned, I have told you that we will consult to determine its position. As far as I am concerned, it is clear that we will remain on the European side, in a determined and lasting manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u15	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. It wasn't quite complete, but it may be information you don't have yet. Thank you for your transparency. I share your analysis of the right balance between subsidies and loans. For the rest, it's up to us to see and catch that ball at the leap. Jean Monnet, this builder of Europe, said: "Mankind accepts change only in necessity, and they see necessity only in crisis." Perhaps the time of necessity has finally come.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u16	Madam Prime Minister, in your remarks I feel a genuine European commitment and a willingness to move forward. You are just stressing the importance of the European Union's own revenue and of the continuation of the Green Deal process. At the end, I also feel very cautious, since Belgium's position is not yet determined in view of the next important meeting, the summit on 18 June. I hope that at the level of the federated entities, which are associated with the determination of Belgium's position on this type of summit, we will find partners to move forward. As I said, we need to find partners to be in the camp of optimists, visionaries and solidarity, rather than in the camp of radins who look at their own interests in the short term, which, in politics and in life, is not good advice. I hope that your conviction will then be strengthened and that Belgium will, as it has historically done, be part of the leading countries in Europe for the construction of this post-coronavirus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u17	Madam Prime Minister, you say that it is up to the social partners to decide, but shortly after, Mr Van Quickenborne, who has just become the leader of the political group, comes in a clever way to defend Voka. He says that a number of conditions must be imposed on the flexibility of the labour market in the post-corona period. Whether via Voka or via Europe, if the crisis will be abused to propose old-fashioned ways of activating night work, raising overtime and extending working hours, you will find an opponent in our party and in the trade unions in Belgium. Those are proposals from the past. The proposals of the future do not deal with the activation of night work, but with the activation of large power. They deal not with raising overtime, but with raising the lowest wages. They are not dealing with extending working hours, but with the redistribution of labour, so that everyone gets a human job in post-corona time, Mr Van Quickenborne. That is not the subject of discussion today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u18	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer, even if it is rather a patch on a wooden leg. Finally, we have something to look forward to, namely the National Security Council meeting. It remains a pity that the people on the coast, where I come today, have a lost Whitsuntide weekend on their legs, especially in view of the beautiful weather. There's finally some light at the end of the tunnel. I hope that we will be able to preserve the original idea of starting on 8 June. Moreover, I hope that the measures are not so draconian that it is more important for some people to remain closed than to open their case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u19	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for the answer. I think you're voluntaristic. You were talking about a turn of events or a revolution in Europe. That's right, and we have to stand by it all the way. I notice I'm already on the nerves of my dear colleague from the PVDA. He talked about old-fashioned recipes, but if there's one old-fashioned recipe in this world, it's communism. I do not know of any country in the world that has implemented a successful communist recipe. So it's right that we shouldn't go back to communism. I would like to come back to the figures, the EUR 5.48 billion we were talking about. That is, of course, a provisional figure. I would like to address the colleague of the N-VA. If we compare our country with countries similar to the Netherlands, Germany or Austria in terms of development, and if we sell those EUR 5.48 billion against their figures, we find that Germany would actually get EUR 12.5 billion too little, that the Netherlands would get EUR 1.7 billion too little and that even Austria would receive EUR 440 million too little compared to our country. However, let us not be figures fetishists, let us look at the importance of this. Belgium is an open country and thanks to a strong Europe we become a strong Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u20	Madam Prime Minister, the crisis in VOCID-19 has once again highlighted all the weaknesses of Europe, whether in terms of internal coordination, a mad global dependence on essential goods or a lack of unimaginable solidarity between Member States with sometimes ignoble statements by prime ministers of the frugal countries in relation to their colleagues, the countries and the peoples of the South. However, I repeat again, business as usual is not an option in this European recovery. The Green Deal or support policies for regions in transition must continue to be priorities in the future European budget. I would like to point out that we are in favour of own resources for the European Union and that you will find allies in us when it comes to setting up a tax on financial transactions or a tax on GAFAMs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u21	Madam Prime Minister, I too am pleased with your answer. With Europe, we are at a turning point, and you are making it very clear that we are taking the side of those who are responsible for solidarity, that is to say, the side of those who are in favour of a strong Europe. I'm glad to hear that. After all, the coronavirus is invisible, it will cause many families very visible economic damage. Our market is a single market. We therefore need a European response. That came out loud and clear from President von der Leyen yesterday. We are particularly pleased that you support that answer. Maar the proof of the pudding is in the eating. The criteria will be logical and the key will have to be fair. Most of the resources must therefore go to the most affected. There must also be a link with climate neutrality and economic responsibility. Without these very important conditions, aid for the recovery fund will disappear like snow for the sun. We can't do that. We must use this momentum for a strong European Union. We support you in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u22	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer, which is characterised by a large amount of commitment and also by a large dose of diplomacy. Because of the latter, I took the composition of the Chamber out of the slide on paper. Your government is only represented by 38 seats. However, the coalition of solidarity, humanity and federalists, of those who love Europe, has over 100 seats here. That is why my group will take the initiative to formalise this broad support for an ambitious European recovery plan through a parliamentary vote on a resolution proposal. In the debate we have had in the last half hour, only Mrs Van Bossuyt is sceptical, critical. Mrs Van Bossuyt says that we must be careful with solidarity: be careful with solidarity between North and South in Europe and be careful with solidarity between North and South with us, in Belgium. That's the N-VA warning. At the same time, my colleague Theo Francken is taking it up as a union of the most wealthy. The N-VA does not warn for a transfer from rich to poor, but for a transfer from North to South. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u23	Mr Calvo, you have exceeded your speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u24	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u25	But you're no longer intelligible. Never! [[Hilarity]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u26	Colleague Calvo, one minute and 20 seconds and then the micro goes off.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u27	Mr President, this is not correct because it has been interrupted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u28	He wasn't interrupted. His speech lasted a minute and twenty seconds, Mr. Laaouej! If you want to correct me, come here! Don't exaggerate! The rules apply to everyone! [[Brouhahaha]] No! After the minute of reply, Mr. Laaouej! As a result, he had already exceeded the time allotted to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u29	Madam Prime Minister, the recovery fund must not lead to a debt union. That is what we are talking about, Mr Calvo. It must not lead to a debt union for which future generations will have to pay and which Europe will ultimately be the victim. Therefore, the fund should consist of loans as much as possible. Madam Prime Minister, you claim that there is a right balance now, but if there are two thirds of grants and a third, that is not a good balance for us. Nor should the fund be an excuse to introduce European taxes and certainly not an internal market tax. You yourself say that the internal market is so important. It will be very important for our economic recovery and for stimulating growth, so don't touch it. Finally, the key will be crucial. It cannot be that Flanders will have to pay disproportionately much for European solidarity. You say that you will consult with the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u30	You're gonna have to finish up, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u31	I hope that you will indeed do so, and I also hope that you will involve their representatives directly in the European negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u32	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, you have visited several hospitals. I therefore hope that you will not deny here any more the catastrophic financial situation of the latter. I have been questioning your Minister of Health for weeks and, again last week, I was questioning you here in plenary. Hospitals – I dare say so – are in a situation of virtual near-bankruptcy. Their situation was already extremely difficult before the crisis. Yet, all caregivers have invested in the care of all VOCID-19 patients. As a result of your decisions, all other activities have been reduced or even stopped. Consultations, medico-technical activities, operations in the operating quarters, day hospitalizations or conventional hospitalizations have decreased from 75 to 100 per cent. With these falls in activity, it is all the financial revenues of these hospitals that have melted as they face significant additional costs associated with the care of VOCID-19 patients. Today, activities are gradually resuming, but they are still reduced by about 50% compared to the usual level. On the other hand, you have demanded that beds be frozen, which means that 25% of the intensive care capacity is not used, as is also the case in many hospital units with empty beds, in order to cope with a possible rebound, which further worsens their current financial situation and weeks to come. You made a EUR 1 billion advance, but it's just an advance. Indeed, the circular you sent to hospitals explicitly states that this amount can be recovered by the State. So it's a virtual advance. In addition, this amount represents a peanut in view of the collapse of their financing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u33	Mrs Fonck, I'm asking you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u34	So there's an emergency. The situation is very worrying, Madam Prime Minister. I therefore ask you to guarantee and release adequate funding so that hospitals can cope with these additional costs and financial losses. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u35	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, yesterday I was at Marie Curie Hospital, a large hospital in Charleroi, near my home. I met some angry medical staff there. I can tell you that they haven't forgotten the words of Mrs. Marghem, who said they were spoiled children. They told me about some of the testimonies they asked me to relay to you. Nadège explained to me that during the VOCID-19 epidemic, she stayed five hours in the unit without drinking or eating, and that it was very exhausting physically and mentally. Elisus told me that in thirty-five years, she would never have thought of having to make protective equipment herself. I have also seen some determination in the nursing staff. Yes, there will be a front and a post-VOCID-19. Anthony told me he refused to keep pulling the rope, counting the masks, counting the equipment for fear of missing it. He refuses to hope for time to be at the patient's bedside. He said, "I love my job, I love patients, who deserve quality care." There was also a leaflet that said to you and Mrs De Block, "Visit my life and take my place." They really invite you to come and live a day with them to know what it is like to work in a hospital in the current conditions. In addition to these working conditions, which have been added to the budget cuts you made before, there is also the anxiety of bankruptcy. Indeed, if one third of hospitals were already in deficit in 2019, we are now of course 100%. When we asked here for the refinancing of hospitals via the White Blouses Fund, we were accused of being populists. Today, this money will come, but we know that it will really not be enough. Madam Prime Minister, my question is very simple: are you going to free up the five to seven billion needed for hospitals not to sink, or are you going to save money again? Are you also going to refinance the sector to offer nurses, among other things, working conditions and wages worthy of their profession?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u36	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Fonck, Mrs. Merckx, I couldn't live the lives of the health care staff. I couldn't live it! On the other hand, I think the best way to get a deeper understanding of what he feels on a daily basis is to go to hospitals, which I did the last two weekends in the country's three regions to discuss with those who, live, on a daily basis, experienced the fight against VOCID-19. I have to tell you that these are meetings that were at the same time marked by a great emotion, a great sharing but also a lot of learnings about the reality of the field. This reality, it knows itself, it understands itself when we go there, what I have done, does indeed, even if it has to be welcomed in a particular way. And, as you know, under no circumstances can the expression of the distress of caregivers be shaded. As a result, on Wednesday in the early morning, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Budget received the social partners. We talked about it last week. They had the opportunity to exchange on various themes, including, of course, those famous decrees of special powers that aroused so much anger, those famous drops that made the vase overflow, as they themselves said. You will also remember that we immediately decided to suspend them and that we also decided to delete them on Saturday in Kern +10. Behind the situation of the carers, their difficulties (lack of staff, organization of work), there is also the whole question of the revalorisation of work. As I have already said, this revalorisation of work is not only expressed in terms of wages and, in fact, perhaps not first in terms of wages. It is expressed mainly in terms of workload. You have to be able to leave your job and say, "What I did, I did it right." That was quite significant in these discussions. That was what came back all the time. One by one, one by one, outside the field of the cameras, they told me in all sincerity: "I'm having a hard time, as I committed myself to this job, going home and thinking that I didn't do my job right because I didn't have time to do things right." This obviously calls for a significant reinforcement of staff in hospitals. Then comes the question of hospital financing immediately. It is known that a fundamental structural discussion must be conducted on long-term hospital funding, but before that, there are obligations that are immediate, emergencies. The first of them was indeed to release a billion. That is true, it is a cash advance to be distributed and about which the hospitals tell us that it is good, that they need it but that it may not be enough and that it will probably require a second. This second cash advance will also come if necessary – and it proves necessary. Beyond these cash advances, there is also an urgent issue of hospital financing today. As you said, the fact that they had to deal with the VOCID-19 crisis in a unique way resulted in additional spending and a series of fewer resources. In this regard, a working group has been established. An investigation was sent to the hospitals. Their answers are expected by Monday. On the basis of this survey, the relevant departments will carry out an analysis of actual needs, cash advances and the management of actual hospital funding. In addition, you know that there has been an initial provision of $1 billion, of which $834 million has already been spent on expenditures related to the purchase of protective equipment for health care personnel. Moreover, this week – if I am not mistaken – a new provision of one billion has been decided with 200 million already earmarked for health expenditure, 150 million front-line aid for hospitals, 28 million for psychiatric care and 20 million for care units. As you can see, the approach is multiple. It concerns both cash advances, the structural situation and the situation of health-care workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u37	Madam Prime Minister, you are quoting a billion, a billion, a billion, a billion... We have the impression that billions are falling from the sky! But I know only one billion, which has been allocated to hospitals as an advance. You dared to write in this circular that it would be recoverable. In practice, as a matter of fact, today there is no guarantee that this billion will not be recovered by the state at any given time. The first thing I'm asking you is to change your circular so that this billion is not a virtual billion that will be asked so quickly by the state. Secondly, estimates range from five to seven billion. If you follow the logic of hospital funding, I'm afraid we'll only wake up in two or three years. These advances, these compensations – precisely not in the form of advances – are crucial, urgent and must be concreted and guaranteed. The White Blouse Fund should in no way be dedicated to offsetting the additional costs of the VOCID-19 crisis and the financial losses. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u38	Prime Minister, I saw that you went to the hospitals. But it would still have been better to visit hospitals a few years ago, when you were Minister of Budget. You might not have cut into budgets, as you did at the time. Now, it's a little late to go see the damage on the spot. When I hear you talking, I don't hear any guarantees. Advances are made, but it is not money that is given, as Mrs. Fonck said. You also say that upgrading does not involve raising wages and that the problem of long-term hospitals needs to be solved. I think you still don't understand the hospital staff, ma'am. We'll have to go back and listen to them. Those who have turned their backs on you also want to talk to you and make you understand that yes, they now need a lot more money. They do not need applause but money for the health care sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u39	Minister None will answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u40	Mr President, Minister, my question was addressed to Minister De Crem, like the questions put by the other four. Apparently Minister De Crem doesn't feel like answering today, but that doesn't bother me. The government is one and indivisible. So I can also put my question to you. Minister, the situation is critical. The incidents and acts of violence against our police officers have not been counted on one hand in recent months. That's why the largest police union, the VSOA, deliberately distributed video footage of these acts of violence. In doing so, the VSOA sends a clear message to you and policy makers that action must be taken after words. However, that message has still not been sent to our policymakers. Minister, where is the zero tolerance policy? Where is the harsh punishment of perpetrators of crimes against our police and emergency services? Why are criminals who attack our police still released the same day, with a simple invitation to come back for questioning later? Minister, the water is on the lips of our police forces. It is urgent that policy-makers follow the many words they have already said.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, after last month's incidents, last weekend in Anderlecht, it was once again the same. Police officers who were at intervention were severely dealt with. We have repeatedly repeated it here in the hemisphere: it cannot be done. We do not want violence against policemen or any aid provider. We must not tolerate that. The exceptional circumstances, the corona time in which we live to this day, are no excuse. Minister for the Interior De Crem has also stressed this on several occasions in the committee. We have also adopted a resolution on this in our committee. The perpetrators of such incidents must not go unpunished. I have heard that the Minister has already been in contact with the mayors and with the police summit in the South Police Zone, in order to find solutions and also to provide additional resources and additional manpower. That's good. However, we need to think not only about short-term measures but also about medium- and long-term measures. The perpetrator of the stair incident has already been apprehended. It would be an Algerian without papers, which, of course, doesn't make it any easier. However, it is clear to us. Such violence must not lead to impunity here and elsewhere. That is why I have a few specific questions. Where's the killer staying today? Will he be punished? Did any of the other unsubs ever get caught involved in the stair incident? Have any steps been taken since last week to have contact with the police area in Brussels? Is there any extra manpower available? Do you see solutions in the short, medium and long term? Finally, will there be consultation with all the Brussels police areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u42	Mr President, Minister, indeed, riots again in Anderlecht. It's not new, it's just another incident in a row. There is still a sense of impunity, both among the population and police. You can hardly blame them for this: police officers are attacked during arrests, combi's are destroyed and even a service weapon was stolen. These are all very serious and unacceptable facts. Colleagues, everyone here will say that this cannot be done, but there must be no understanding of violence against policemen. They do their job in often very difficult circumstances and anyone who thinks it is good with this society obviously thinks that these facts cannot and is tired of it. The VSOA is asking for a strong signal and we fully support it. It is no longer just a question of a signal: we need to act hard and a severe punishment is necessary for such unacceptable facts. The 2017 College of Attorney General's circular has already made it a priority to bring about a rapid trial and also to effectively punish violence against police. Our current Criminal Code already provides for penalties, and the new Criminal Code goes a little further in this respect, which is good, but we in Parliament must ensure that penalties are implemented effectively. The logical, unanimous reaction is that everyone in choir tweet that the perpetrators will come to court and be punished. The question is, of course, when and how. Could you clarify that a little bit? Hence my question to you as Minister of Justice, the same as Mr Demon. What is the current state of the investigation? One person was arrested and apparently arraigned by the court. Are there others? There were people who tried to stop the arrest by force. Were they arraigned in the meantime? Were there any quick-track charges applied in this file? Were any of the punishments already pronounced? If not, when will the defendants be brought to court? I'd like some explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u43	Minister, the images broadcast showing the assault of police officers in Anderlecht last weekend are simply unacceptable and present acts that call for the strongest sanction. For years, let alone the horror of terrorist attacks against our police officers, these women and men have been abused, assaulted and raped. Minister, over the past few days, I have met several people who have asked me why the police had not used their firearm to defend themselves, adding: "You see where we are!" While the amendments to the Code of Criminal Investigation and the speed with which judicial proceedings have been conducted have recently reinforced the criminal reactions against the perpetrators of such attacks, it should be noted that such violence continues. Such acts and images are intolerable and so destructive to the authority of our security forces. The policeman's vulnerability is unbearable. I heard the Minister of the Interior say that such images should no longer exist. In order to do so, we must go beyond the stage of declarations and act in practice. Here are my questions, Minister. How are these police victims taken care of? What is the automatic procedure for providing legal assistance? What about the constitution of a civil party? What is the status of the prosecution proceedings against the authors? Are any prosecutions under way for non-assistance to persons in danger against the authors of these images, as provided for in the Penal Code? Finally, with your colleague from the Interior, how do you assess the judicial decisions taken against individuals who assault our police officers, especially since the entry into force – in 2018 – of the security sentences and the circular of the College of Attorneys General of October 2017?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u44	Minister, the incidents in Anderlecht once again highlight the violence our police officers face in the performance of their duties. Such acts are totally unacceptable and my group condemns them unreservedly. We extend our full support to police officers who perform their duties under difficult circumstances. In this case, the agents who were the victims of the attack were there to protect traders from the increase in shoplifting. As the mayor of Anderlecht points out, we know that some municipalities are a more difficult land than others. In order for our police officers to carry out their work in good conditions, they must be given the means to do so. With my group, we have been calling for the strengthening of community policing for years. Today, the federal government considers that only one neighbourhood agent is required for every 4,000 inhabitants. This is a standard that needs to be reviewed as a matter of urgency. It clearly endangers our police officers in the most difficult neighbourhoods. Minister, what follow-up has been given to acts of violence against the police? How many similar events have occurred in the past 12 months? What concrete support is provided to police workers in these circumstances? What measures are you taking to provide police areas with the means to enable them to perform their duties under conditions that do not endanger workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u45	Mr President, Minister, the facts were outlined by colleagues. The video shows the poignant circumstances which are too often faced by Brussels agents. Violence against policemen who simply do their job, or try to do it, is unacceptable. The facts show that there is no respect for the police or the aid workers anymore. The defendant protected by the bystanders is a man who is illegally resident in the territory and who is already known to the court for various facts. According to the press, the person concerned would have even been released under conditions, and that is a symbolic extra blow to the face of the two police officers who have gone to great lengths to try to arrest the man. The question of action in all areas, and thus in the field of justice, arises. In the meantime, the parole board has opened an investigation. This is the time to apply the zero tolerance letter for violence against police forces down to the smallest points, but this is only the beginning of the investigation, which should lead to effective punishment and effective execution. I come to my questions. Is it true that the defendant has been released on parole in the meantime? Is it true that the defendant has a criminal record for serious criminal offences? If so, what penalties did he receive? When and how were these implemented? What's the status of the investigation? How many persons involved in the facts have already been identified? How many have been apprehended? Finally, will rapid law be applied in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u46	Minister, there were six questioners. I will therefore give you six minutes for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u47	Mr President, Mr Depoostere, thank you for calling the government one and indivisible. My party, too, is, as you know, so that is all very reassuring. I would like to answer your question on behalf of Mr De Crem. Part of that answer was written in French, but I know that you are not bothering. Like you, I was able to see images of police officers who were kicked and punched by passers-by during an arrest in Anderlecht. I insist that there is no excuse or reason for violence against police officers. I strongly condemn these acts of violence. After seeing these images, says Mr. From Crem, I immediately contacted the mayor of Anderlecht, the chief of corps of the Brussels-Midi police zone and the police officers concerned. The next day, I had a constructive dialogue at the Anderlecht police station with all the actors involved. In the short term, the solution to this problem, which we are already trying to offer as much as possible, is the so-called zero tolerance, Mr De Crem said. In this respect, I immediately promised reinforcement to the Brussels-South police zone. However, there is also an urgent need to strengthen a chain-based approach at other levels. I repeat that violence against police and law enforcement has no place in society. The police will continue to find a reliable partner here in me. So much for Mr De Crem's reply. With regard to the prosecution of the facts in Anderlecht, and more recently in Vorst, I can give you the latest information from the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. Of the filmed rioters in Anderlecht, nine bystanders have been identified. That doesn't mean these were all rioters. The police task force set up for this purpose is working in close consultation with the Brussels Office for further prosecution with a view to identification. At this stage of the judicial investigation, four suspects were arrested and arraigned by the court before the investigating judge, who, as you know, is independent. Three out of four were placed under arrest. The fourth was released under conditions. That arrest was confirmed by the council room. The parquet tells us that the search for the facts is ongoing in Vorst and that the suspects will be questioned after analysis of the video footage. They'll have to answer to the criminal justice officer. With regard to criminal law policy, Mrs Gabriels rightly referred to the 2017 circular. That letter refers to a strong signal from a rapid, effective, dissuasive and uniform judicial response to such unacceptable facts. The letter also states that any fact that is serious or repetitive will be submitted to the court and/or, if the offender cooperates, at least to a measure initially proposed by the magistrate, such as sometimes an amicable settlement. A reference magistraat has been appointed in each parquet general to monitor the application and follow-up of that letter. Criminal law is sufficiently equipped in terms of punitive measures and the priorities of investigation and prosecution policy to discourage work. It's an aggravating circumstance to commit violence against the police. In the new penal code that is laid down in the Committee on Justice, the acts of violence against persons with a social function are even more severely punished. That is another reason why the penal code should be dealt with quickly in the Committee on Justice. However, an efficient approach is far more than criminal detection. Of course, we mop up with the tap open if we do not do maximum work on the local level and if local policy in the municipality does not ensure that there is no breeding ground for crime. We all have enough knowledge and science to know exactly what is meant. Chance poverty, a culture of violence, nuisance, ghetto formation, youth work, and that sort of thing more. The government, one and indivisible as it is, is constantly calling for a strict policy of persecution. But it goes without saying that there must also be a preventive policy that makes maximum use of avoidance. The paradox is that on the one hand we see images like in Minneapolis, of which none of us are happy, and on the other hand we see images of Anderlecht. Somewhere we have to find the right middle ground between those two. We must admit that what we have been through in Anderlecht is not the middle way. That is why I say that there are three arrests confirmed by the council chamber, and there will certainly be persecution and punishment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, Minister De Crem's words, in French or not, are not enough. If you say, Minister, that we are mopping with the tap open, it is mainly because there is a lack of a strong policy here. That's exactly what our police forces are asking for. To say it with a boltade: when the police can't operate safely, no one is safe. Let's call a cat a cat. The unsubs are usually of strange origin. That may be said. The unsubs aren't locked up or barely locked up anymore. And there are certain districts and municipalities in Brussels where policemen have become undesirable guests. There is one collective responsibility of this one government. So make sure, Mrs De Block, that criminal aliens are returned to their country of origin. So make sure, Minister De Crem, that work is finally being done on a single police area in Brussels. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I agree with your comparison between Anderlecht and Minneapolis. The chain-based approach starts with prevention. The police must be able to perform properly. If that's not possible, it's up to the Justice Department to act. In Anderlecht they went over. Those people, are three or seven more, either way, they must be severely punished.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u50	Minister, you confirm that this government is advocating a strict policy of persecution. As legislators, we can make instruments available, but the court must, of course, ensure the final act, namely effective enforcement by thoroughly and effectively punishing offenders and implementing those penalties as soon as possible. I didn't hear you say anything about that. Will the speed limit be applied here too? I am in favour of applying this here, but that is, of course, a decision of the public prosecutor. In this way, citizens immediately see that this is not tolerated and that a zero tolerance is applied to these facts. Colleagues, it is time for all politicians in this country, wherever they are, to support their police force 300 percent. You are right that the local authorities have their role to play in this. The police are doing their job well. Such matters should never be minimized. This undermines our legal system and our democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u51	Mr President, Minister, thank you. I hear your first points of answer. You know that the issue is as much about the protection of our police officers as it is about the judicial follow-up of perpetrators of violence against our police officers. As far as operational protection is concerned, it is the responsibility of your colleague from the Interior and, in this regard, the question of the police force is closely linked to it. I will ask him again about this, as I have already done on several occasions because, when we talk about prevention, it goes from office to reinforcement of the neighbourhood and work on the ground. But the protection of our police also depends on respect for public authority and therefore on the absence of impunity. Sanctions are essential, which requires systematic judicial follow-up against violence against our police officers and effective punishment commensurate with the acts committed. Whether it concerns intimidation, insult or physical assault, we must punish! If the existing arrangements do not allow it, let us urgently decide to strengthen them further and if they have allowed certain measures (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u52	Mr President, Minister, I hear your answer. I repeat that such scenes are unacceptable. There is obviously no miracle solution but one thing is certain; local police need resources, men and credits. And not to revise the norm defining the number of neighbourhood agents, it means putting workers at risk and abandoning the citizens who need a local police force to their fate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u53	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, but you did not answer a number of questions. I wanted to know whether the person concerned had previously been convicted and whether the penalties had been carried out. That is important, because if what the press said is true, the person concerned should not even have been at large. I repeat, violence against police and aid workers is inadmissible. I therefore call on the leading Brussels politicians to stop sticking their heads in the sand and to side with the police, not those of the criminals who are attacking the police. We demand that the courts punish the perpetrators quickly and decisively and that the penalties be implemented effectively, because this is really unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u54	Mr President, Minister, it is the time of the year when many Belgians must fulfil a stressful duty, in particular to complete their tax returns. This is a difficult task: with over 800 codes on the declaration, a lot of people are unable to do so without help. The good news is that they get help from the tax authorities who send a pre-filled declaration to almost 4 million Belgians. After all, the tax authorities know about a lot of people how much they earn and what they cost. The taxpayer can then sign, send back that pre-filled declaration and Kees is done. With peace of mind one can then spend one's time on more pleasant things than filling out the tax bill. That's the theory. What is now apparent in practice? The ACV has checked a stack of pre-filled returns and has discovered that there are a lot of inaccuracies or incompletes in them. The result is that people risk losing money. That is, of course, insane, colleagues. The taxpayer tries to make a correct declaration to avoid a fine, but then it turns out that there is a risk that money will be lost because of the tax authorities' mistakes. In addition, there is nothing anyone can do about this. Because of the corona crisis, one cannot go to the tax administration to ask for explanations. One has to call the administration and get a call back later. That's also a complicated story. Meanwhile, the deadline is getting closer, which you do not want to move so far. How will you ensure that people can count on the pre-filled declarations to be correct and that the people who need help can also reach the tax authorities in a smooth way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u55	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke, thank you for your question. Paying taxes is never pleasant. However, we can try to make this as easy as possible. The use of the simplified declaration or VVA proposals has therefore been considerably extended. Today, 3.9 million people report 730,000 more than in 2019. I pulled the numbers from my paperwork. In previous years, the so-called return ratio, i.e. the returns returned with modifications and corrections, was between 10% and 15%. Should that percentage be significantly higher by 2020, as the ACV claims, it seems to me at first sight to be very high percentages. However, we will analyse these figures in more detail. I asked for an in-depth analysis of that. We need to be very clear. This is a proposal for a simplified declaration. It is quite clear in the proposal that the taxpayer is asked to check the figures carefully. This is not about the declaration itself, it is about a proposal. There are a number of reasons why the taxpayer should carefully review the proposal. First of all, the tax administration can only base itself on the facts that it has. A number of chips sometimes come in late or are sometimes incomplete. What's not in it, of course, can't come out. Secondly, a number of forms of data are not available to the tax authorities, for example on childcare or dividends. The IRS doesn't have that information. Very often, it is also very clear that information could be lacking under certain headings. It is also very clear in the VVA how the persons concerned can contact the tax authorities. You can do that via Tax-on-web or by phone. My main appeal is to check what is being proposed to you. However, should it prove that the error rate is as high as the ACV claims, which I have investigated, then we need to look at how we can correct this. At first sight, however, that would not be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u56	Mr President, Minister, thank you for pointing out that you will look into any problems and that you want to make efforts to avoid them. However, I do not accept that taxpayers should be asked to check the tax authorities. That's the reverse world, isn't it? We should ensure that the tax administration is organised in such a way that if the taxpayer receives information from this administration, he knows that it is correct and complete. Ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to solve the problem, we must, of course, completely reform our tax system. Then it must not only become more just, but it must also become much simpler, so that people know that whoever does his fair share also gets his fair share.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u57	Minister, yesterday the RTBF broadcast a particularly interesting report on the current general malaise to the police. Far from the idea of throwing reproach on the police – I have condemned violence against the police for years – but a number of acts of harassment have been revealed. The figures are worrying: one in four police officers are spoken of. Ten years ago, we were talking about one in seven police officers. Minister, what measures have been taken to stop this phenomenon, which is particularly prevalent in the police? There is an omerta, the victims are alone and do not know how to make their distress heard. The report was very enlightening about the loneliness of these victims and the disastrous effect these events have on the police force. Other facts were revealed through this report, but I wanted to stress this aspect. If we target the perpetrators of these acts, it will not cast reproach on the entire police force, which is already subjected to terrible financial or material constraints and which is the subject of significant violence at the moment. Minister, what measures are you going to take to combat this harassment, which is simply unacceptable?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u58	Mr President, Mrs Matz, like you, I saw the report of the RTBF last night which revealed cases of harassment within the police. Actually, I was shocked. Judicial proceedings are under way, which limits me in my response today. In any case, I would like to stress that I do not tolerate and strongly condemn this type of inappropriate behaviour. Such behaviour must always be punished. However, without trying to minimize the seriousness of the events mentioned in the broadcast, I would also like to point out that we have nearly 50,000 police officers and that a person carrying out such duties cannot escape his or her responsibility. As you know, we have in addition to the federal police, 185 local police areas that each have their own working environment and how they deal with harassment at work. With regard to the federal police, I can tell you that it has been working for many years to implement a personnel policy where harassment at work is managed by a network of trusted people and, if necessary, by centralized monitoring and adjustment. There is also ongoing training where attention is paid to this issue. Following last night's broadcast, I asked the Commissioner General of the Federal Police to reassess the current approach, but I repeat once again that this type of behaviour is completely intolerable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u59	Minister, I thank you for the extremely determined tone of your response to these facts, which you yourself call unacceptable. As I often say, indignation is one thing, implementing very concrete things is another. I am very pleased to hear that you have asked the Commissioner-General to take further action and re-evaluate. In fact, it is likely that the measures currently taken are not sufficient. The victims continue to bury themselves in silence, suffering from these situations. I also insist on local police. As you said, each police area determines its personnel policy. There are also facts mentioned. There was a kind of leak from the authorities in the face of the answers they could provide. I think we all need to speak with one voice on this issue of harassment and violence against women, and more specifically to police officers in the police service.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u60	Madam Secretary, I very much like to be able to count on an independent judge in our country. It monitors the exercise of rights, duties and freedoms. Against this background, I was first of all amazed at and paid particular attention to a remarkable statistics from the Council of Foreign Ministers. It is the first time in ten years that statistics are published by language role and a very significant difference appears. For example, French-speaking judges grant refugee status nine times as quickly. In other words, Flemish judges are nine times stricter, perhaps nine times more just, in the area of the right of asylum. We are trying to find an explanation of this phenomenon. Serge Bodart, the first President of the Council for Foreign Contests, says in the French-speaking press: "Je n'ose pas donner d'explication." The judge doesn't have the courage to explain it. But in the Dutch-speaking press, the same source says very clearly that the difference is indisputable. In Flanders, 92.44 % of applications are rejected; in Wallonia, that is only 70.8 %. There has apparently been discussions on case law, but what will you do to harmonise it in practice, Madam Secretary? Harmonisation has so far proved to be absolutely useless. What will you do about it? Rather strict and just than lax and less or not just? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u61	Mr D'Haese, the Council for Foreign Affairs is an independent administrative court, which, like every court, is independent in its judgments. There are no differences between the language roles for regularisations, visa applications and family reunifications; this is the case for the full jurisdiction procedure against the decisions of the Commissioner-General, the right of asylum. The vast majority of decisions in whatever language role are followed by the Council. In my view, this is positive and confirms the quality of the decisions taken by the Commissioner. The ruling of judgments depends on several factors. These may be concrete elements which are different such as the contested decision and the grounds for destruction and reform cited. They require an individual assessment each time. The Council is aware of this and for the first time has chosen to communicate it transparently. I think that is a good thing. It is the first time that decisions are published by language role. It is also important that the Council makes increasing use of the instruments at its disposal to ensure the unity of justice and legal certainty. For example, the first President or the President of the Council may decide that a matter shall be dealt with by the General Assembly or by the United Chambers, if deemed necessary in the light of the unity of the case-law. This has happened many times in 2019, much more than in the past, for example for the assessment of Palestinian asylum seekers' professions, which has been more harmonised as a result. This can also happen for other countries or profiles. We can't measure the impact of that yet. In any case, I believe that this is the solution. By the way, thank you for your photo, Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. It is a good thing that there is transparency about the figures, but in addition to the fact that you have already been able to get a haircut and I do not, we differ on a number of other points. You do not explain the essential difference in treatment in the French language and the Dutch language role. You're spinning around the pot and you're not answering. This is unacceptable in a rule of law, whether it is about language legislation or meetings. I have not prepared my reply in advance, Madam Secretary. You may not care anymore. Our party has a proposal to make the objectification of the judges at the Council for Foreigner Disputes more transparent and to achieve more efficient administration of justice. You're kicking the Achilles tendon of the rule of law. It is very important that you know this and that we will continue to monitor it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u63	Mr President, Minister, Belgium has been severely affected by the corona virus. The most fair comparison is to compare the excess mortality rates between the different countries. These confirm that we are at the top, despite the lockdown measures. The peak of the crisis is behind us, but that does not mean that our attention should be weakened. We must remain alert, because a second peak, with a second lockdown, must be avoided at all costs. We know that the key to success lies in many tests, so that infected people can be identified, their contacts can be warned and they can be placed in isolation. We have been hearing in committee for weeks now that we have an enormous test capacity. We can handle 25,000 tests a day and we can even go up to 45,000 tests a day if necessary. However, if we look at the figures, it appears that since 4 May, when the test criteria were widened, we have achieved an average of 13,000 tests a day, one third of the maximum capacity. In the last week, the number of tests has even fallen below 10,000 tests a day. First of all, how come the number of tests is so low? Secondly, why is the test strategy not being adapted, since the capacity is there? The leading expert, Professor André, also indicates that there is a need for broader testing. In our opinion, timely testing is also testing people without symptoms and testing people before they get symptoms. They play an important role in the spread of the virus. Why, for example, is there no structural testing in the essential sectors? Thirdly, also according to Professor André, the national testing platform, with industrial labs, is too slow to do contact tracing. Why is the capacity of the hospital labs not being used? These have been ready for tests for a long time. Why are the wipers reserved for the national testing platform and not going to the hospital labs? Finally, what are you going to do to increase the number of tests?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u64	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, I would first like to give some figures. Testing is extremely important and I myself am convinced that we must test, test, test. That's what we do. We have already carried out more than 800,000 tests in Belgium. The central platform has accounted for more than half a million of this. Those are thousands of tests that wouldn't have happened otherwise. This puts us in seventh place in the world of the number of people tested per 1,000 inhabitants. I think that we can produce really good figures and good statistics in this area. To this day, we continue to test people. Yesterday, 14,000 tests were carried out to identify approximately 250 to 300 positive patients per day. As you know, I have long advocated an extension of the test criteria. This has happened twice or three times during this crisis, for example when I proposed testing all rest homes and collections at regional level. That has happened completely in three weeks. You also know that the expert committees of RAG and RMG must provide the scientific basis necessary to determine the testing strategy. There's no point in testing just like that. One needs to test to identify positive people as soon as possible and to track down the people who have been in contact with them as soon as possible. When it comes to the PCR testing strategy, I would first of all like to encourage more testing of care personnel and to ensure that people in care and in the first line who have been in contact with COVID-19 patients can be quickly tracked down. Furthermore, on the basis of the symptomatic patients, we must be able to obtain a quick result through the clinical labs via the GP. We use that capacity to the full. Then there is the contact search organised by the regions and, secondly, the testing of asymptomatic people who have come into contact with patients, via the central platform or through the clinical labs. Thirdly, there must also be testing in collections. There I have made a very clear appeal to the regions. There must be clear protocols on what needs to be done if a positive case is to be established in retirement homes, schools, businesses or residential areas. My option is clear: test everyone immediately, the capacity is there. I have therefore asked for a clear position to be taken tomorrow at the Inter-Ministerial Conference by the RAG and the RMG in consultation with the ministers to establish once and for all that extensive testing capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u65	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must act on an offensive basis by smothering new fireplaces in the bud. We need to work on that now. I'm glad to hear you're in favour of that, as I understood earlier. What I find strange is why it takes so long, Minister, as both you and the experts agree, and the testing capacity for more tests is available. Earlier I asked about the exact composition or possibly reports of the RAG, but so far I have not received an answer. The faster we can isolate infected people, the less chance of further spread and less chance of a second wave. That's the only way to avoid a second lockdown. The sooner it gets there, the better. Since the start of the corona crisis, we've been tracking the virus. From now on, we have to make sure we stay ahead of it. We can only do that by massive testing. The capacity is available for this purpose. We're better off testing someone too much now than not enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u66	Mr President, Minister, this dossier is, in fact, typical of our country: it is a dossier in which reality transcends fiction, a characteristic of our country. I can already imagine how that went in his work: I suspect that on a blue Monday, whether or not a blue Monday, the Prime Minister called you in her unflinching Dutch and asked you to quickly order 18 million mouth masks, because she suspected that the people were getting wind of the government, when she had Professor Van Ranst in the news that wearing mouth masks was pointless. So as a good Minister of Defence, you went looking for 18 million mouth masks, accounting for several tens of millions of euros in taxpayers' money, and you end up with several Luxembourg postal companies. Whether or not the selection procedure was shadowy, I leave it in the middle. Mr Minister, why have you not carried out a proper background check on those PO Box companies? At least you would have known that they were postal bus companies, that behind one of those PO Box companies there is a shadowy Jordaan businessman, who also has very good contacts with a bank that manages terrorist money, of which he is also a shareholder, and that that company has a share capital that is actually not much larger than that of the average Flemish friestoot. During the committee meetings there were also quite a number of fine clauses that you could invoke if the deliveries were to be made late. Well, it is now time, so I have a number of questions for you. Mr. Secretary, will you file a claim for damages, or have you already done so? How big a demand will that be? Actually, I want to know everything about those claims. I will conclude, Mr President. The question of one million is whether you truly believe that you will be able to demand and receive a euro from a company that has a social capital of just 30,000 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u67	Mr President, Minister, that blue Monday was Monday 27 April. That was exactly a month ago. Then the Council of Ministers decided that Defense was ordered to purchase 18 million mouth masks for our country. In eight days' time, your services had to write a specifications, do a survey, and set up a permit procedure. On Tuesday 5 May the order was placed. My first reaction was: that's incredibly handsome and good work, it's almost a miracle what Defense has done for us here. But, Minister, there is the saying that if something is too good to be true, it is indeed. This has also been demonstrated in retrospect. A lot of questions have come up about one of the assigned firms. The Belgian textile industry stood on its back legs. I said at the time that the most important thing of course is that the mouth mask will be there soon, that the result is good, that there will be a lot of mouth masks soon. That firm, in any case, on paper, has convinced the DOD of that. Okay, the result should be here by now. The deadline was last Sunday. Then the mouth masks had to be there. But we have received the first signals that the order would not be in order. My questions are actually very logical. How many mouth masks have been delivered so far? If the order was not in order, if it turns out that the masks are missing, the most important question is: what now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u68	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days we have been able to read a lot of articles in the press concerning the purchase of fabric masks by the Defence. We know that on 27 April last, Defence was commissioned by the government to place an order in order to be able to provide at least one fabric mask per person to the entire population, to support municipalities and regions and to protect our fellow citizens at best from the VOCID-19. The Defence has thus launched a public procurement through a negotiated procedure without publicity. Minister, many insinuations are made in the press articles. I would therefore like clarification on the following points. First, has the public procurement been validated by the Finance Inspectorate and have any comments been made by that authority? Secondly, what specific conditions have been required in this procurement? Thirdly, what measures are envisaged in the event of delays in the delivery of masks? Fourth, how will these masks be distributed? And what is the justification for this choice?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u69	Mr. Bombled, it was your Mayden speech. I congratulate you on this brief statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u70	Mr Minister, last Wednesday, in the Committee on Army Purchases and Sales, you said that Avrox is not a letterbox company. However, the images on VTM News prove that Avrox is the textbook example of a letterbox company. On Rue de Bastogne number 12 in Luxembourg there is only a mailbox. There is no staff and there are no owners present. Philippe de Koster, from the anti-money laundering cell, has made it very clear why such a construction is being used. They use this very clearly to hide their identity. I asked for access to all the files so that I could exercise my parliamentary control. I don't understand why I didn't get this. I've been a journalist for 12 years, and so I went to those firms to figure out how the hell it is. I've been able to look at the files from a number of firms. Now it appears that the reason for rejection is very often that the references are incorrect. Today's newspaper says that Centex, a large company with the reference "the federal police," was not accepted. Another company Anti-Chute gives 250,000 masks, in California, USA, with an exact address. They received the following reply: "Your offer does not satisfy the qualitative selection: no numbers and no references provided." It is clear in black and white that something has gone wrong. The question is, where? Is it a coincidence that one takes the highest prize? Is it a coincidence that the order goes to a totally unknown company? Is it once again a coincidence that all Belgian firms who participated have fallen out of the boat? A lot of questions, very few answers. I hope you'll shed some light on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you said, on 27 April the federal government instructed the Defence to launch a public procurement for the purchase of masks through a negotiated procedure without advertising. You know as I do – and I hope so – that the chosen procedure allows the State, under conditions of urgent urgency, to conclude a contract within extremely short periods of time after negotiation with tenderers chosen by the contracting authority. On 28 April, the Defence staff first contacted the Belgian fashion federation Creamoda through a special team of our purchasing services in the context of the market investigation, but after a few days of negotiations that umbrella organisation failed to bring together a consortium of Belgian companies. On 28 April, a first market consultation form was sent to more than 160 companies, of which two thirds of Belgian companies, including members of Creamoda, were asked to respond before 30 April. A second round took place on 30 April, taking into account the new standards, since the modified NBN standard was in the meantime drawn up by the FPS Economy. The second phase ended on 2 May. On the basis of the information collected, the contracting authority prepared and sent a specifications to 41 companies that were able to offer more than 250,000 masks in the short term. Tenders could be lodged from 4 May. Evaluations are based on administrative criteria and market conditions. These include a blank criminal record, social tax schulden, bewijzen van raisingscapaciteit, principle of payment and fine, waarborg, kwalitatieve control, lifting and special penalties. Of all the bids received, only four were compliant. I would like to remind you that the productions of these four firms are in Vietnam, Hong Kong, Laos and Turkey. I think it's important to remind him. In view of the quantities requested, in relation to the requirement of speed, we selected two firms. It is also important to remember that the file was presented to the Finance Inspector, who is independent of Defence – you know that as I do. The finance inspector will give his prior opinion, first of all on the procedure submitted to him. Then, in the award phase, he will also do his work independently. What's he doing? He's judging the opportunity. He shall judge the procedure applied and the procedure followed. I stress this because, to hear the comments, it seems that we have been working a little blind, without respecting the rules. The order was placed on May 5 by the Department of Defence Procurement, and therefore in execution. As I said, two firms were selected on the basis of their rapid production capacity. The first firm, Tweeds & Cottons, is a Belgian company. It actually delivered 3 million masks, i.e. the entire order. The second firm, the Luxembourg firm has delivered to date – I am sorry to communicate the number that was asked of me because delivery is late, but I am doing so in the interests of transparency and because it is my role – 2.7 million masks. I would add that 3.2 million masks will be delivered this weekend, according to the flight plan communicated. Delivery of the order balance is scheduled for next week. With regard to the samples – I note that few of them mention this issue – the samples have been tested. By whom? By an independent Dutch-speaking and French-speaking firm. In this way, the balance is respected. The Defence Laboratory has also done its control work. In fact, the deliveries as such are subject to surveys and checks by an independent firm and the Defence Laboratory. As I said, I'm not the lawyer for Avrox. I'm not the prosecutor of the latter either. I conducted an analysis, together with the Defence Service, on the basis of the file presented to me. What have we observed? Respect for the rules of the public procurement. Having already mentioned them, I will not call them back here. The Court of Auditors has asked for all the offers, which I welcome. I would remind you that the Defence Procurement Service, which has done a substantial job, is obviously at its disposal to communicate all the information. I have heard insinuations about the situation in Luxembourg society. I would remind you that the members of this company have formed themselves in a natural person. So there is no question of a front company. I saw that we had been looking for where the shares of this company were. They're in the Avrox company. And we wondered where one of its members was putting its capital. Like you, I was able to see that the person concerned had own capital in a Jordanian bank. So I asked our ambassador in Jordan about the situation. I invite you to carry out checks before claiming that this bank has been blacklisted, etc. Truth has its rights. If you give me another minute, Mr President, I would like to remind you that this is an important issue that highlights the credibility of the Defence – which has fulfilled its mission. The Commission has worked on the basis of documents that have been officially presented to it, based on the legislation on public procurement. We all knew that we were in an emergency procedure validated by the government. Indeed, I confirm that we had to work fast. I hear some of you spreading in the press about the fact that Defence is a high quality organization. I believe it, too. When, in view of the urgency, she presented the file to me, we started by working for a very long time alone with the purchasing staff, so as not to mix the roles. Secondly, to be sure, we analysed the offers on the basis of the pre-screening of the Finance Inspectorate, which, I would remind you, is an independent body. You didn't ask me about the delivery of the masks. Perhaps you are not so interested in making them available! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u72	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply, at least if I have received one. I hope you won't be scared when someone like Barbara Pass comes up with a blunderbook. In the meantime, I think there's enough dust for a trilogy. I myself hoped for a film of a story with a virus with thousands of deaths, 18 million mouth masks, 47 million euros, a minister, the army, post-bus companies, a Jordan businessman, terrorist money and a blacklisted bank. I tried to wear it out in Hollywood, but they refused because it was unbelievable. However, that unlikely scenario is the reality in this country. If it wasn't for crying, it'd be a laugh. I would like to know what has gone wrong, which has led to the arrival of certain suppliers. I think that this can only be done with a committee of inquiry which is investigating what has gone wrong and who is responsible for it. That is exactly what our party will be asking for soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u73	Minister, you say it is a very short time to go through this procedure. I'd call that a rush and a rush. Actually, I don't blame you for that. I blame this on the government as a team. They've been talking to the textile companies for weeks. That decision has always been pushed forward. Suddenly, at the end of April, the DOD had to solve it in a week, with all the consequences of that. I am very sorry about that. When I look at this file, it's just a story of losers. The government isn't looking good. The textile industry is angry. DOD has a nasty result and people are not getting what the government promised, especially the mouth masks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u74	Minister, thank you for your clarification. At the same time, I thank the Defence Administration for its work. In a matter as complex as this one, which affects the health of our fellow citizens, serenity, clarity and precision must be taken into account. You are at the same time serene, clear and precise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u75	Minister, if I have noted correctly, there are now 2.7 million of the 15 million oral masks ordered. Last weekend, that was only 1.5 million. Which means they're gonna come in with a little bit of a slap on the wrist. This weekend there will be a number, up to 3.5 million. I find it hard to believe that next week there will suddenly be 10 million mouth masks. That's why I want to know what you're gonna do next week if it turns out that the mouth masks are only going to come in slowly. In my opinion, the questions I asked about the dossiers still have to be answered in the end. Why is it that Belgian companies with good references are being sent with a bunch of clutters, why is these companies being blamed for their references not being accurate? I've been looking at two or three firms. Have they invented all kinds of things? Newspaper journalists have also looked at this file. This needs to be sorted out very carefully. In total, you can order up to 50 million mouth masks, since it's a window contract. Can you promise, after what is due, that you will certainly not continue with Avrox, but above all with Belgian companies paying taxes here, not in Malta, Jordan or Luxembourg?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u76	That brings us to the end of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u77	By e-mail of 28 May 2020, the Open Vld Group informed me of the appointment of Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne as Group President. By e-mail of 28 May 2020, the Open Vld Group informed me of the appointment of Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne as group chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u78	You have received an amended draft agenda for today's meeting. You have received an amended draft agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u79	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Our rapporteur is Mrs Vanrobaeys.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u80	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u81	Once again, we have the luxury of having a written report, for which we are grateful. I give the floor to Mr Anseuw.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u82	Mr President, the N-VA will support the draft law. The principle of equal pay for equal work is, to a large extent, already translated into our legislation; the text before us contains a number of details. However, the draft is only a small step towards a fairer and more transparent use of secondment. Posting remains essentially an exception and an exception to the principle that wage and working conditions as well as social security contributions are determined by the place of employment. If we do not consider frontier work, then we must note that this exception has become the rule. Some problems have not yet been resolved in the new directive and therefore the draft law. Firstly, it is not a question of posting at the level of social security. In that respect, the rules of the game do not change. The Posting of Workers Directive and the draft law deal exclusively with the aspects of employment law in the framework of temporary contracts in the European Union and thus not with working conditions, while differences in social security in particular often remain very large. Secondly, the sector most sensitive to social dumping is and remains the transport sector. However, it is not included in the directive, which is transposed into this draft law. Thirdly, it goes without saying that abuse of secondment is particularly difficult to control, not only labour law but much more at the level of social security and taxation. Cooperation between the various European countries on the social and fiscal control of posted workers is currently very difficult and slow, especially with countries in southern and eastern Europe, which are sending out just a lot of posted workers. On this point, too, the EU directive which is being transposed into the draft does not really contain new steps. For the sake of understanding, the N-VA honours the free movement of workers and services in the European Union. The internal European market is extremely important for an export-oriented region such as Flanders. However, if we do not want to undermine the public's support for a solid EU market, we will really have to address the shortcomings in our posting policy in the future. First of all, the duration of the posting of social security must be limited in time and in accordance with the tax rules. Paying social security in the country of work must be the rule again. Secondly, we need to get rid of the cheese with holes. It is incomprehensible that the transport sector remains a big black hole. Thirdly, control and cooperation across countries must become more effective. It's terrifying what we can't control. Here too, the playing field must be levelled. Posted workers must be able to be checked with the same quality standards as ordinary Belgian workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u83	Mr President, the European Commission, which is the negotiators of the Member States, and the European Parliament reached an agreement on the adaptation of the so-called Posting of Workers Directive. This legislative text, adapted or not, is all too often leading to social dumping. The Belgian negotiators were actually happy with a dead sparrow. The new Posting of Workers Directive is no more, but also no less, the confirmation of the current crackling Belgian legislation, with a new, small limitation. So it remains legally organized destruction of own jobs. Moreover, the directive excludes the greatest adjustment for the transport sector, the sector with the greatest social dumping. There is no agreement on this. What a shame! The European Posting of Workers Directive provides for legal social dumping. The main consequence of the change is that posted workers should receive the salary of the host country; however, social contributions are paid in the home country, which is much lower there, if they are already paid. As a result, workers from these countries are much cheaper than Flemish and Walloon workers. The consequences are dramatic. Thousands of Flemish jobs are lost, not only in the transport sector, but also in the metal, construction, surveillance, food and service sectors. In the meantime, the government is losing tax revenue and our social security is being undermined. Employers who do not participate are priced out of the market or go bankrupt. The parties who believe that Europe is the solution to tackling social dumping and unfair competition are blind. The current Posting of Workers Act has not been sufficient to tackle social dumping for years. That Belgian law is as leaky as a sieve and leaves the door wide open for all kinds of abuse. The revised Posting of Workers Directive actually does not go much further than the limp Belgian law. So it will not change anything on the ground in our country. At best, the revision will set a level of pay throughout Europe, but the review will not add anything to the fight against social dumping in our country. Similarly, the agreed maximum period of posting of 12 months renewable to 18 months is not sufficient. Flemish Interest calls for a maximum duration of 6 months, with the exception of sectors where a reasoned longer period is justified. Flemish employers and employees have already dared to differ widely. But there is consensus on this issue. After all, our companies have to fire their own employees and eventually go bankrupt, because they are no longer competitive. Friend and enemy will recognise that there are only two ways to combat social dumping effectively: either put the open borders at risk, or make foreign workers pay social contributions here. Flemish employers and workers are therefore calling for social dumping and unfair competition to be tackled at last. In order to combat social dumping, the Flemish Interest wishes to reject the European Posting of Workers Directive as a whole if it is not amended. Posted workers have to pay social contributions here. In addition, posted workers may stay up to 6 months unless a longer stay in a particular sector is really necessary. Other parties choose to continue to mess around within the European margin, while they hold the key here. The Flemish Interest advocates the immediate extension of the existing Belgian Posting of Workers Act to include social contributions from day one. The social and economic massacre in the construction sector and the transport sector must stop, especially now that we can expect at least 250 000 additional unemployed as a result of the corona crisis. Protect our Flemish jobs. It'll be more than necessary. During the discussion in the committee, several parties stated that they wanted to go further. They proclaimed the high word that social dumping must stop. They cited several ways to settle this: on the one hand, the further limitation in the time of posting to six months, and on the other hand, much more efficient, the obligation to pay social contributions in the country of employment. The Flemish Interest can support these adjustments. As in committee, therefore, we are once again proposing an amendment to introduce the simplest and least radical adjustment. Our amendment limits the time of secondment to six months, with the possibility of a reasoned extension of six months. In committee, Mrs Muylle said that we should not be stricter than the European directive. That is a strange argument, precisely because the new European directive is based on the stricter Belgian legislation, which came after the previous European directive. At that time Belgium was a kind of forerunner, why shouldn't it be today? Especially with 250 000 new unemployed knocking on the door of welfare, we must do everything we can to keep jobs in our own hands. The choice must now be made between work done by Flemish, Brussels or Walloon workers, or by Poland, Bulgarians or Romanians. Now we must choose to preserve our prosperity or export it. Now we have to opt for our own labour or imported labour. The choice is clear for the Flemish Interest. I hope in the name of the many thousands of workers in the construction, transport, metal and food sectors that we choose for them, that we stop social dumping and that we at least tighten up the present bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a new directive on posted workers in the European Union has been drawn up during the last parliamentary term. European Commissioner Marianne Thyssen did a lot of work to adapt it to economic realities. After all, the single market has grown over the last 20 years and wage differentials have increased. For this reason, it was necessary from both an economic and a social point of view to adapt the rules on the posting of workers in order to prevent social dumping. The new Directive entitles a posted worker to all the components of remuneration required by the host Member State's national legislation. The allowances for accommodation and travel and meal costs must also be the same for posted workers as for workers in the host Member State, also under the legislation of the host Member State. Anyone who is posted for more than 12 months should also be entitled to a more extensive set of employment and employment conditions. An anti-departure mechanism was also introduced to avoid changing employees in order not to reach those 20 months. There will also be more use of the obligation to provide information. This increases transparency and ultimately makes it easier to detect abuses. It has cost blood, sweat and tears, but the points I make show that the new directive has indeed taken great steps forward in the fight for equal pay for equal work, which is fully in line with the fight against social dumping. The CD&V Group therefore reiterates its support for the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u85	Mr President, this bill will transpose the European directive. This is the third version which, for the first time, uses the terms "equal pay for equal work". This is therefore a small step forward, but very symbolic when we know that the European Commissioner claims to fight against social dumping but in fact refuses to introduce a real equal pay for all European workers. This is a symbolic step forward in a social Europe where many consider this social dumping to be in fact the future of the labour market. But for who? Not for Filipino drivers operated by Polish companies who drive on German roads 200 hours a month for just 428 euros. Nor for workers in large construction companies, who work side by side with different working conditions and pay, which allow management to exert pressure on wages and thus make more profit. This transposition is minimal to us. In Belgium, we were already further away thanks to the thousands of workers and trade unions who are fighting this social dumping on a daily basis. During a period of coronavirus, this competition mechanism did not disappear. That is why we have argued in committee that there should be more and more social inspections in companies that do not comply with the existing rules. This is therefore a directive where Europe is catching up with Belgium. Since a directive is a directive, Belgium could have gone a little further in its transposition. She has decided not to do so and we regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u86	Mr President, for our group too, this draft law is yet another step forward in a social Europe. Indeed, it further implements the principle of equal pay for equal work. In Belgium, this was largely achieved by the law of 2002, but still additional steps are being taken with this bill, such as equal sectoral baremas, equal accommodation and expenses, guaranteed wages and also the small fee to which posted workers are entitled. Of course, we agree that the work is not finished at all. Social dumping is taking place through posting. This social dumping undermines not only the level playing field of our companies, but also our taxation and our social security. It leads to very inhuman working conditions and terrible rewards. The answer to this is, in our view, a European approach, based on solidarity, in which we work for every worker in Europe, including, of course, Belgian workers, to improve working conditions, sound and dignified wages and good social protection and social security. In this sense, it will not be surprising that we also regret that transport is not covered by this directive, but is regulated separately, which is not included in the draft law which it implements. During the discussions in committee, we understood that an agreement had already been reached in the Council on transport, but that this has yet to be transposed into a directive. Since this sector is extremely sensitive to social dumping, we insist that it be transposed into Belgian law as soon as possible, so that we can enforce it here too. Currently, in Europe, also on Belgian roads, for example, there are Filipino truck drivers who work for Eastern European transport companies at 2 euros per hour and who, if they do not work, have to stay and sleep in a stable where no farmer would still house his animals. Those are really horrible circumstances. The only reason for this is that some people become rich with it, without any concern for pure human rights. For me, that goes beyond equal pay and social protection. It's about human rights. Moreover, the European trade union has calculated that there would hardly be a higher selling price if truck drivers were to receive fair wages. It also immediately makes it clear who gets richer. For example, calculations were made for a number of IKEA cabinets. For example, a MALM cabinet today costs 99 euros, with those truck drivers, and would cost them 100.4 euros with a fair wage. For consumers, this will not make the big difference, but for the people who do the transport, it would mean a difference of day and night. Of course, the draft law stands or falls with sufficient control and enforcement and the improvement of the functioning of the European Labour Auditorate, but I would also urge the Belgian Government to make an effective effort to strengthen the inspection services. We have heard a lot of words about this in the previous government, but the inspection services are still suffering from staff shortages. The words were not always translated into action. Those who commit fraud on such a scale should not get away with it without impunity or get away with some kind of friendly settlement because the inspection services suffer from staff shortages. The firms I mentioned just now are only getting richer. They put in very expensive lawyers and prey on the slightest mistake in the procedure to put the entire recovery at risk. If there is so much fraud, it is a question of real justice. This may have a deterrent effect on companies intending to use those practices. In committee, I have also insisted on keeping the FPS Employment website up-to-date with all the applicable provisions, because if an applicable provision is not mentioned, companies that organise social dumping here can be punished. We must be tough on such companies if they are to organise such practices. We must not run the risk of a penalty reduction because the website of our own federal government would not be up-to-date. Of course, this also requires the use of resources and staff, but I believe that we need to realise this commitment. Within the framework of the Enforcement Directive, we had already asked your predecessor two years ago whether it would be possible to provide an overview through a tool or website of potential subcontractors or contractors who have already been convicted of serious labour infringements. You said you'd check it out. For principal clients, it is easy to check whether the person they want to go into business with is someone who has already committed offences or is known for social dumping or is someone who complies with the rules of the game as it should be. We believe that this is a way of ensuring that such practices no longer occur. We support the draft law before us, but we believe that there is still a way forward in terms of social security, control and enforcement in order to achieve a level playing field for our companies and greater solidarity in terms of equal pay and equal social protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u87	Mr President, we are taking an important step here, although I am well aware that this is only part of the work. After all, the Posting of Workers Directive we are discussing today is only about working conditions and wage conditions, not about social security or taxation. Enforcement is not part of this either, as it is dealt with in a separate directive. Furthermore, certain sectors, such as the transport sector, are excluded because they require a specific approach. Your concern about this is more than justified. We have talked a long time in committee about the impact of the Posting of Workers Directive on our country. In fact, that impact will not be so great, as our country is already very advanced today in terms of the hard core of conditions. This, of course, says a lot about our social dialogue and the many collective agreements and KBs we already have in this area. Several speakers have also referred to the additional safeguards in the draft, for example what has been added on the bypass mechanism. As Mr Anseeeuw pointed out, the conclusion and termination of employment contracts and supplementary pension schemes are important points which unfortunately are not included. As far as the transport sector is concerned, there is currently an agreement within the Council which must now be ratified by the European Parliament, after which publication can be followed. It will then be important to transpose the directive into Belgian law as soon as possible after publication. As far as inspection services are concerned, cooperation between the various services is envisaged. There must therefore be a cooperation agreement that regulates the use of people and resources. The tool is part of the Enforcement Directive, but it is an important aspect that we are continuing to work on. My people and the FOD WASO are currently looking at what can happen with that. I think keeping the information on the website up-to-date is very crucial, Mrs Vanrobaeys. If it contains incorrect information, I am thinking, for example, of employers in other countries, it could have very serious consequences. So its accuracy is very important here. There are believers and non-believers of the Posting of Workers Directive. We are free to table amendments. One can, of course, also table an amendment which goes against the transposition of the basic directive. This is a 12-month posting with, in certain circumstances, an extension to 18 months. That amendment runs counter to this transposition, but we live in a free country. This is not legislatively correct, but everyone has their opinion on posting. So this is a step forward. However, I am well aware that it will take several more steps to achieve equal pay and equal work in full.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u88	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u89	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1173/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1173/1) The bill has 22 clauses. The draft law has 22 articles. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an amendment No. 6 tabled by Mr Hans Verreyt and Mrs Ellen Samyn. Would you like to take the floor on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u90	Mr President, I have just explained our amendment in the general discussion. The Minister has also replied to some of them. Our proposal is to limit the period of 12 months to 6 months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u91	Thank you. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u92	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u93	Sustained: the amendment and Article 6.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u94	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 5 and 7 to 22.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u95	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u96	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Thémont, referred to the written report. I give the floor to Mr Anseuw.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law essentially sets up a mechanism to ensure and monitor compliance with existing laws, decisions and collective agreements. This mechanism also applies to other EU countries. It actually establishes a global system whereby a certification system and periodic inspections are used to monitor compliance with the requirements of the agreements on minimum requirements to ensure proper working and living conditions for fishermen on board fishing vessels. In short, the present design works towards a level playing field for Belgian fishermen. The N-VA Group, and I as a man of the sea in particular, naturally welcomes this and will vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u98	Mr President, Flemish Interest will support this draft law. It is good that a clear directive is being drawn up for the fisheries sector, a sector which we must fully support and nurture. The introduction of a global system will ensure that the working and living conditions of fishermen on board will be guaranteed. With the introduction of a work certificate, there is now a clear, streamlined working regulations, where, for example, the minimum age and rest periods must be respected. At the committee meeting, I underlined the importance of a fishing window that could support fishermen in the process of complying with the new rules and removing them from certain administration. We are therefore pleased that there will be such a window in Ostend.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u99	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u100	Thank you so much for closing the West Flemish conversation. It is felt that the sea still remains something of West Flemish. We are taking an important step here today. It is a very technical design, but it is very important for the sector. Here we are transposing a directive which, in turn, is the transposition of a treaty, while we have not yet ratified it and which actually goes beyond the directive that is the result of the treaty. That is why we have already aligned ourselves with the Treaty in the transposition process, not with the directive. There was a very good mention of the two important points. For example, there is the certificate of employment which regulates a lot of things in 15 areas and takes steps forward. As far as rest periods are concerned, this agreement offers a great deal of certainty and conditions that ensure that many of our ships can be properly filled in by fishing and living and working conditions. I would like to thank the groups for their constructive attitude to this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u101	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u102	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1176/3) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1176/3) The bill has 98 articles. The draft law contains 98 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u103	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u104	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Evita Willaert, Marie-Colline Leroy, Wouter De Vriendt, Gilles Vanden Burre, Dieter Vanbesien, Albert Vicaire, Anja Vanrobaeys, Tania De Jonge, Nahima Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u105	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Our rapporteur is Mr Bihet. He told me he's referring to his written report. J'ouvre la discussion générale and I give the floor to Mr Willaert.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to say that for us a strong first pillar, a strong legal pension, is very important. In this way we can guarantee a dignified old age for everyone. However, there are pensioners who supplement their under-retirement with additional earnings to make ends meet. We do not want to leave these pensioners in the cold in this crisis. The aim of the present proposal is therefore to allow temporary unemployment for retired people over 65 in the context of the COVID-19 crisis, because these pensioners often have a side-earning to supplement their often too low pensions, while this side-earning is now falling. In this way, we will also eliminate discrimination. For pensioners under the age of 65, the right to temporary unemployment has already been opened in the context of this crisis and self-employed people over 65 are entitled to the right to bridge the crisis. We want to eliminate this inequality, but it is limited to the period of temporary unemployment in the corona crisis. I would like to thank the co-authors of the bill, Mrs Vanrobaeys, Mrs De Jonge and Mrs Lanjri, as well as all my fellow Members for their broad support for the proposal. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u107	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1228/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1228/5) The bill has 4 articles. The bill has 4 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u108	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u109	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Bert Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u110	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Reccino Van Lommel, rapporteur, refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative proposal before us tackles an inequality for SMEs, which are very important in the economic fabric, in the energy market. An adjustment is imperative. For some time now, it has been a thorn in the eye that SMEs who make advanced energy choices are sometimes penalised for this. For families it has been an acquired right for a long time that they can easily change supplier. This will ensure that the market remains sharp and that families can use it to look for the best prices. A large number of people are not yet sufficiently familiar with this, but the right to change suppliers has already led to much sharper electricity prices in the past. This also exists for SMEs, but there is still a certain catch. SMEs are very well defined as companies that consume both up to 50,000 kilowatt-hours of electricity and up to 100,000 kilowatt-hours of gas. At first glance it seems logical to draw the line somewhere, but there is more to it. Two identical SMEs that consume the same amount of electricity could still be assessed differently under the current scheme because they happen to choose another fuel for heating their building. If one consumes a little too much natural gas, it loses the right to simply switch suppliers, while another by using coal or fuel oil can actually do what it wants. Anyone who then leaves that fuel tank behind for what it is and still switches to a natural gas installation may just as well be confronted with the loss of those rights. It gets even weirder if the SME in question manages to invest in a heat pump or an electric car fleet. It will emit less CO2 and cause less air pollution, but for some crazy reason, the law today believes that it will lose rights as consumers in the energy market. This bill tackles the problem and allows SMEs to move more easily to an energy supplier with higher prices. SMEs will, especially in the future, be able to take advantage of this changing energy landscape in a good way. They can also compete with it and benefit from it. The solution is actually relatively simple. We cut through the very bizarre bond that the legislator has made between the use of electricity and natural gas. We are raising the ceiling for electricity consumption. This means that SMEs wishing to invest in electrification will no longer lose rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u112	We also ensure that anyone who wants to invest in a heat pump or an electric vehicle can do so without any problems, even for companies that want to leave the fuel boiler for what it is and trade in for a more economical gas model. They too will not lose any rights to the present situation. That is a step forward. At the same time, however, we have also discussed this in committee. At the same time, they are also at a time when Corona makes it difficult for suppliers in some cases. In committee, we have tried to find the best possible balance and to give the suppliers the necessary space. There was also broad support for this. We have gone in the right direction in this respect. I would, of course, also like to thank the Members and the staff who contributed and provided input to the proposal for their input and support. We are addressing a problem that has already been dealt with in our legislation ten years ago. I have raised the problem several times in recent years with a whole series of ministers responsible for energy at the time. Today, however, Parliament is happy to do what Parliament is good at, namely resolving cases. I therefore hope that we will be able to continue the unanimous vote we were allowed to have in committee here in the hemisphere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u113	Thank you, Mr Wollants, for the initiative you have taken on extending the SME definition. It was fascinating parliamentary work, because we have left with something you have explained in detail and because we have landed with something that we have finally achieved unanimity on. Ultimately, the most important thing for a large group of SMEs is that we will extend the protection that has been in the Electricity Act and the Gas Act for years. I find it interesting to see how small technical aspects that have been in these two laws for years and which have for years been giving rise to different interpretations on how to deal with protection can now be proactively addressed. I suspect that the vote from the committee will indeed be repeated. We will not change our voting behaviour, so I expect us to have another unanimous vote. This will represent progress for the many SMEs in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u114	Mr President, Mr Wollants, thank you for tabling this bill. Our group was and remains in agreement with its objectives, in particular the objective of allowing more companies to benefit from protection in the energy market. For example, without this bill, there would remain restrictions for SMEs to change suppliers without termination fees. Furthermore, companies should not be penalised for the energy choices they make, such as switching to heat pumps or electric vehicles, as Mr Wollants has just mentioned. A maximum number of SMEs should indeed be able to respond to advantageous prices from other suppliers without being penalised. I think so, and the amendments in committee show that Mr Wollants is of the same opinion, that the opinions of the FEBEG and the CREG have shown that adjustments were needed to counteract some undesirable effects. These were also our concerns, certainly, but not exclusively, with regard to the impact of suppliers and the possible impact on tariffs. It is also a good thing that electrification is taken into account, which indeed increases the impact of the thresholds. An expansion of the SME group is likely to make the market even more competitive. We therefore support the amendment of the threshold for electricity consumption up to 100 000 kilowatt hours, the cut-off of the link between electricity consumption and natural gas consumption and the maintenance of the threshold for natural gas, as well as the final decision of the transitional period after good cooperation in the committee. It goes without saying, therefore, that we support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group is still in favour of measures in favour of SMEs in energy law. They are the foundation of our economy and make an essential contribution to the achievement of our economic growth and also to the creation of jobs. Currently, an SME is defined in energy law as a final customer with an annual consumption of less than 50 000 kWh of electricity and, cumulatively, less than 100 000 kWh of gas for all its points of connection to the transmission network. The proposal was supported unanimously, after constructive work in committee with all colleagues, as my colleague from Ecolo-Groen pointed out. It increases the threshold for electricity consumption to 100,000 kWh. Electricity consumption will be separated from natural gas consumption. Finally, the threshold will be maintained for natural gas. The advantage of the method – and not the least – is flexibility. In fact, keeping the principle of quantities consumed as a criterion for defining an SME and simply adjusting the thresholds makes it possible to envisage further adaptations, upwards, depending on market developments or perhaps even downwards. By doubling the electricity consumption threshold, more SMEs will be able to benefit from the protection measures. All price information is also available to them. They will be able to use price comparison sites to easily identify potential savings. This is good news, as over the coming months and years, a growing number of small and medium-sized enterprises will invest, for example, in heat pumps and electric company cars. Finally, in view of the difficult situation of the coronavirus crisis and the fact that it is essential to take account of this situation in the context of the implementation of new obligations, it seemed appropriate to allow the sector more time to proceed with the enlargement of the target group. The measure will be effective as of September 2021. Colleagues, for these reasons, our group will support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u116	Mr President, this bill extends the protection of SMEs and will ensure that more SMEs will be able to change their energy contract without paying a cancellation fee. This can already be enjoyed by individuals in the current legislation. They will also be able to opt for renewable energy more easily. For SMEs, the protection depends on their energy consumption. Only SMEs with energy consumption within certain limits can cancel their energy bill free of charge. This bill extends these consumption limits and will ensure that more SMEs can benefit from this protection. That is why we have supported this proposal in committee and will do so here. Especially in this time of crisis, self-employed and SMEs need to be better protected and supported. Some who do not know us well may be a bit surprised, but self-employed and SME leaders are people who often work hard. That is why they need support. The best support we can give to SMEs and self-employed people is to ensure that the population has sufficient purchasing power. We shall therefore be happy to support this proposal. One more comment, for us, the date of entry, September 2021, should have been mentioned earlier. We believe that the suppliers are sufficiently equipped to start earlier, but that will not prevent us from supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we, too, are naturally satisfied with this legislative proposal. This bill raises the consumption limit of electricity from 50,000 kilowatt hours to 100,000 kilowatt hours on an annual basis and prepares the definition of an SME in the Electricity Act for further electrification of energy consumption. We are thinking primarily of the use of heat pumps, instead of natural gas or fuel oil, and electric vehicles. These technologies, of course, increase electricity consumption, so that consumption can be above the threshold of 50,000 kilowatt hours. By raising that threshold now, we are sending SMEs the message that they will not have to comply with electrifying, because they will be able to retain the protection measures provided for in the energy legislation. In committee there was some discussion about the choice of the threshold of 100,000 kilowatt hours, which is partly of course an arbitrary choice, but it is, of course, a good step forward. The choice to raise the threshold is in any case better workable for suppliers than the original proposal discussed in committee, proposing to change the SME definition based on size and number of employees, which would have become administratively almost unworkable for suppliers in practice. By raising the limits and cutting the link between natural gas and electricity, many more SMEs will be covered by the definition and thus entitled to the protection measures in the energy legislation, including the free cancellation of the energy contract. Of course, this poses an increased risk to energy suppliers, as they have to sell their purchased energy elsewhere. I think that we will all have to follow that risk closely and check whether this does not create upward pressure on prices. It is equally possible that a larger group of SMEs will lead to more competition between suppliers and hopefully to better, competitive energy prices. Finally, I would like to mention the date of entry into force. We believe it is good that the entry into force of this bill is set for 1 September 2021. Thus, we give the suppliers, who are also heavily affected by the corona crisis, sufficient time to provide for the implementation of their IT applications of this change in the legislation. These changes will, moreover, come together with the foreseeable changes in the Atrias framework. In summary, with this bill, we encourage the electrification of our SMEs, provide for an increase in the number of SMEs that can benefit from various protection measures and ensure that suppliers have sufficient time to implement that IT. Nothing but positive news and Our group will therefore support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u118	Mr Delvaux, congratulations on your maiden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u119	Mr President, it has been said a number of times here: self-employed and SMEs are, to a large extent, the engine of our economy. We also support any proposal that helps them to take a fairer approach to their energy bill, or at least a more flexible and better approach. From the beginning when Mr Wollants had submitted this bill, we were on board with this story. At first, he did run into some administrative boundaries, for example in determining exactly what an SME is. With the necessary flexibility, a good solution has emerged. As the colleague from Open Vld says, we can discuss the border that is still as arbitrary as the previous border, but our feeling is that more SMEs are now among the target groups for which this legislation should be intended. In that respect, that is a good thing. In addition, this is aligned with the natural gas border. This will not save the climate, but it is an important signal that electrification will also take us a step forward in combating fossil energy in our society. Finally, a few colleagues spoke about the date and they agreed that it should be pushed back. That's just the way people look at it. On the one hand, it may be good for our energy companies, on the other hand, it could be said that our SMEs are also having a hard time today and would have been helped by an earlier entry into force of the law. However, we have reached an agreement in committee and will therefore vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u120	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u121	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (703/6) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (703/6) The title has been amended by the committee to "proposal for a law amending the Act of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gaseous and other products by pipelines and the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market, with a view to better protecting SMEs". The title was changed by the Committee to "the legislative proposal amending the Law of 12 April 1965 on the transport of gas-like products and others through pipelines and the Law of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market, with a view to improving the protection of SMEs." The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u122	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u123	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Tinne Van der Straeten, Albert Vicaire, Kris Verduyckt, Malik Ben Accour, Bert Wollants, Greet Daems, Thierry Warmoes, Michel De Maegd.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u124	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Ms Yngvild Ingels, referred to the written report. I give the floor to Mr Wollants.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u125	Thank you, Mrs van der Straeten, for this initiative. Colleagues, I believe that this is a good thing. In the past, we have already worked in a different way to correct the Gas and Electricity Fund. After all, at a certain point in time, it was decided not to index the funds for that fund any longer. One can do that for 1 year, 2 years or maybe even 3 years, but in the long term that will be a problem. After all, these resources are used to ensure that the weakest in society can also participate in the energy transition. We think too long and too often only about the curative part, namely ensuring that the invoice is paid. This is of course important, but these resources are also used for the preventive part. If one can also use the same euro to invest it in an energy-efficient refrigerator or something like that, it has its value every year. We find that in recent years the costs associated with certain parts of the energy transition have often been much higher for those who had to work with worn-out appliances in a toothed house. So it is important that we take steps forward here. At the same time, we also had to note that funds have been raised in the past that have never been used. That had its reasons at the time, but we have to make policies with these means, because they have been asked to do so by the consumer. We must be able to use them for the better, in the right direction. We will have to look at this again in the future, because the funds we are using now are obviously not inexhaustible. We are sending an important signal that the Gas and Electricity Fund can continue to do what it has to do and that the OCMWs can continue to work with it. For example, we can include everyone in this energy story, although there is certainly still an assignment for the people who are having a harder time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u126	Colleagues, the Platform Against Energy Poverty, which is managed by the King Baudouin Foundation, collected 12 testimonies from people with a pay lag in February 2010. 28 pages of stories from Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. One in five families in our country is having trouble paying the bill. One of those people is Felix from Brussels. He says in the report, I quote: "For electricity bills, I see every month whether I can pay them. If you can't, I'll wait to pay. But the month after that, it's still the same. Paying is never possible. There's nothing wasted in the house. All we have is a TV and a fridge. The heating works on gas. We don't always use the heating. And we only use electricity to prepare food and to heat the water from the shower." It is now a year since I returned to this Parliament. I have returned with the firm ambition of cooperating on solutions for people like Felix. Even more, with the ambition to connect social and green. With this proposal we are today helping 120,000 people who call on the OCMW because they have problems with their energy bill. This measure is good for their wallet, because the OCMW helps people pay their bill. It is also a measure that is good for the planet, because the OCMW also helps people invest in a better refrigerator or in a savings shower head. This is just a first step. It's gonna take a lot more than that. Especially as a result of the crisis, the vulnerability is greatly increased. That is why we have proposals to extend the social tariff to a larger target group, proposals that will soon be discussed in Parliament. Today is of course today. Today we are taking this first step. I would therefore like to thank everyone, beyond the political group boundaries, for the good cooperation, first in December and now in the last month, in order to free up the funds in the dormant fund to help people like Felix. More than the vote today, I look forward to the next discussions that we will have in committee and then here in plenary to provide a structural solution for those vulnerable to energy poverty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u127	Mr President, in addition to what Mrs Van der Straeten has said, I would also like to thank the members of the Climate Committee who supported and amended this text. We have worked in good intelligence and I look forward to it. Although everyone agrees that combating energy insecurity is crucial, a thorny question remains. Who's gonna pay? Mrs Van der Straeten has proposed financing via the flat-rate reduction fund for gas and electricity heating, a method which has been validated by the Court of Auditors and which does not impact the consumer's gas or electricity bill. In 2017, more than 120,000 people benefited from the Gas and Electricity Fund to be supported in their energy consumption. With the indexation proposed today, more people can be helped. They will be able to move towards the energy transition, towards more comfort, towards more self-esteem, creating jobs in the building sector – insulation, regulation, installation of new means of heating, household appliances. All of this is a source of jobs. More than ever, we need these non-relocable jobs. It is one of the facets of the Green Deal that Ecolo-Groen wants to set up for a more inclusive, greener and stronger society. In conclusion, I would like to say that far from me the idea of stopping here. We will not succeed in the energy transition if we leave all these households on the edge of the road. In order to combat energy insecurity, there are still major challenges ahead. The first is to extend, as Mrs Van der Straeten said, the conditions for access to the Gas and Electricity Fund. The second will be to find a source of structural financing for the funds in question. I assure you that everyone will be back at the meeting to help our less favoured citizens to provide themselves with energy with dignity and, as a result, to create other jobs. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u128	Mr Vicar, congratulations on your Mayden speech!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u129	Mr President, our group supported the law of 20 December 2019 which did not ratify Articles 2 and 3 of the Royal Decree of 19 December 2018. That was a first much-needed step for today. It was also intended that the costs of indexation should not be included in the final customers' invoice by increasing the federal contribution, but that the costs should be covered by using available dormant funds. The cost of indexations for 2019 and 2020 shall be financed by the balance of the dormant fund for flat-rate reductions for gas and electricity heating. The purpose of the present legislative proposal is not to ratify the provisions of Articles 2 and 3 of the Royal Decree of 17 December 2019 and to allow the balance of the aforementioned dormant fund to be used to finance the annual indexation of the amounts paid to the Social Fund gas and electricity and thus, in short, to the OCMWs. In other words, today there is a legal basis for indexation pending a structural revision of the funds, as this aspect also emerged during the hearings on the funds. The bill also ensures that the CREG no longer has to wait for an KB to use the balance of the dormant fund in concrete terms, to allocate it or to allocate it to the legal strategies. The CREG can act now. We have voted in favour of the bill because we are going along with the step-by-step construction of a robust, social energy policy. Our condition was that this should not lead to an increase in the federal contribution, which would have an impact on the final customers' invoice. However, it is clear that the instrumentalisation of the dormant fund at issue is a finite story. The Court of Auditors has calculated that electricity will be able to finance the cost of indexations for this year and next year. On the basis of an extrapolation, the Fund could also finance indexation for 2022, but by 2023 it would no longer have sufficient resources. With regard to gas, only indexation for this year can be financed, but no longer the full indexation for next year. In other words, there will have to be an external source to cover the structural cost of indexation if the federal contribution is not to be increased in the long term. The debate on whether a new fund should be created to provide full social protection, regardless of fuel, and to ensure fairness between all consumers is also still open. It is true, Mr Warmoes, that the indexation mechanism itself should also be revised. It does not follow the evolutions of energy poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, our group is open to all possible solutions that the invoice, today actually a tax bill, does not impact. Last week we heard in the committee how the corona crisis, which is also a social crisis, makes energy poverty even more acute in many ways. The permanent members of the committee can testify that we are thinking and supporting the parliamentary work on energy poverty. Today we have once again taken initiatives, Mrs van der Straeten has referred to them, with regard to research into the possibility of extending the target group benefiting from social tariffs. The Platform Against Energy Poverty clearly calls for an extension of access to the social tariff for low-income people for whom this crisis has aggravated payment difficulties. Energy check or extension of target group? The question is open. For us too, the most important criterion is that the measure in the corona context is as focused as possible, with attention being paid to all the links in the chain, including the repercussions for suppliers. We also note that there is insufficient movement at regional level in the composition of the final invoice. A lot of public service obligations weigh down the bill. Recommendation 2 of the Platform Against Energy Poverty is very clear. There must be a debate on the various components of the invoice. What elements should be included in the invoice and what elements should be financed by other means? In this gremium there is inevitably also a necessary 6 % VAT and no 21 % VAT for the most vulnerable families. At regional level, this is also about network charges. In the committee, the OMCWs also pointed to the desirability of using a specific COOVID-19 envelope within the Gas and Electricity Fund, under the same conditions and usable without time limit. I listened very carefully when Mrs Van der Straeten almost came up with some tough stuff... Or at least in a laconic way... Mr. Calvo, take it easy. I don't mean pejorative. I'm talking about the positive. You're not listening. I listened very carefully when Mrs van der Straeten suggested that this should be done more beautifully about the possible use of part of the regulatory balance with the system operators for this envelope. Indeed, our group believes that the structural under-financing of the social energy policy of the OMCWs should be stopped. That is why we fully support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank Mrs Van der Straeten for her initiative, as well as all the colleagues with whom we have carried out constructive work to help the most fragile citizens on this issue. CPAS can provide support to households in difficulty in paying their energy bills through the Gas and Electricity Fund. However, the means of this fund were frozen at their 2012 level. Already in December, during the vote on the Royal Decree on the social funds for gas and electricity, our group, together with other groups, tabled an amendment to put an end to the freezing of this indexation. The proposal we are dealing with today will fund this indexation for a few years, using the remaining balance of the flat-rate natural gas and electricity heating fund, so as not to pass on these amounts to the customers of energy suppliers. Again, the work in committee has been positive. The text was adopted by a very large majority. This measure responds to the demand of the CPAS federations stressing the urgent need to free up the financial resources necessary for field work. Finally, the measure is important, but it does not provide a structural solution. It relies solely on the use of dormant funds. But when these are exhausted, it will of course be necessary to finance indexing again via the final consumers' bill. It is therefore appropriate, as pointed out in the committee, to carry out an evaluation of the funds, their usefulness and needs, in particular in order to combat energy poverty effectively in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u131	Mr President, CPAS will certainly need the indexation of the Gas and Electricity Fund and we hope that they will have quick access to it. The representatives of the CPAS were indeed very clear at the hearings we held in January and again last week: they must have the necessary resources. They're on their knees and this indexing will help bail out their crates a little bit. They are also asking for an additional EUR 30 million for the Gas and Electricity Fund, which is still not self-sustaining. So they have to put it out of their pocket. However, the pockets of the CPAS are not very full. This proposal is making six advances. It's just a first step. More will be needed, such as the revision of the indexation mechanism itself. However, consideration will have to be given to ways other than the dormant funds for the indexation of the Gas and Electricity Fund. Ways will have to be found in the near future because the funds used to finance the thawing of indexation will not last long. The PTB will fight for this outside the current framework. Financing the Fund through the federal contribution increases households' electricity bills, while electricity in Belgium is already one of the most expensive in Europe. We have signed this bill and are pleased to be able to work with the other parties. We must continue to do so in order to combat the energy insecurity which is on the rise as a result of this crisis which is still widening inequalities. Energy insecurity is a multidisciplinary problem, particularly related to housing. The King Baudouin Foundation calls for public investment to improve housing. I would point out that, during the hearings, the FEBEG demonstrated by illustrations that the majority of households did not even have the means to isolate their housing. We therefore support this demand for housing and hope that we will be able to work again in the future with the other parties to continue fighting energy poverty. Ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand, we have agreed to this proposal and, of course, we will also vote in favour of this proposal in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of 2019, our group also adopted the bill to index the federal contribution to financing the Social Energy Fund for 2019 funds. It is important to note that the approval was linked to the conditions that the measure would not reach the final invoice and that it would be budget neutral. We have also included this literally in the text, in particular in Article 2 (3) of the draft law of 20 December 2019. At the time, the FPS, the CREG and the Court of Auditors did not give an answer to our question as to whether or not it was an ESA issue as far as the budgetary impact was concerned. That is why, at the committee meeting of 6 May 2020, we asked the Minister once again explicitly to clarify this matter. On 13 May 2020, the answer was that it was indeed an expenditure subject to the ESA obligation. That is why we abstained in the vote in committee. We do not want to have said that the OMCWs have no difficulty in always fulfilling their energy poverty tasks as well. Moreover, the problem is also at the heart of our group. However, let us focus on a holistic approach and on structural measures aimed at prevention, such as improving the energy efficiency of homes and appliances, reducing energy bills and sparing consumption. We can also discuss the re-use of the social tariff, which is currently under discussion in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Let us be open to what is possible and, above all, take structural measures in Parliament. These are special times, which require special measures, a mantra that we often hear here, sometimes rightly but not always. It seems that some would like to take the opportunity to spend on everything and some money. In this legislative proposal, the proposers claim that the measure would only cost EUR 228,533. Now it turns out that only the more edition is compared to the indexation in 2019, while the real extra cost actually amounts to 6,364,990 euros. For both years, therefore, it amounts to a budget expenditure of EUR 12.5 million. We have often been asked here what will happen when the Heating Fund is up. We do not have an answer to that question at the moment. We have not resisted this, and we will not do so today. I just wanted to point out a few facts, to keep colleagues on the budgetary implications of the legislative proposals that are being adopted here. That is why my group will abstain from voting on this today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u133	Mr President, Mr Van der Straeten has just given a specific example of energy poverty. Such examples, including last week's example of Dylan, make the problems very acute. Of course, it is important to know how many people are involved, which depends on the definition of energy poverty. The CREG, our independent regulator, concludes that 400,000 families in this country at best fear the electricity and gas bill or have insufficient budget to heat their homes properly. I would like to comment on two reasons why we are going to approve the bill. Firstly, it is very often seen in vulnerable families that they make poor choices just because of a lack of information or because of a lack of resources. Reference has already been made here to structural solutions. But we do not believe in the solution of energy cheques, for example, because our energy market is extremely complex. I myself put forward a proposal on the dormant contracts in order to achieve a little more transparency in that market. That is one of the problems of that market today. Some argue that there is a social tariff, and that may be a partial solution for many people, but that is certainly not enough when it comes to investments in energy transition and those investments are just needed. For that, the rate is insufficient and the fund is very important. Just like the previous proposal discussed here, the proposal before us will not save the climate, but it is another step in the right direction. The next aspect I would like to address relates to the corona crisis, a word which apparently does not appear to be missing in any speech in Parliament. The various parliaments in Belgium have taken a lot of general measures and play very briefly on the ball. That is good in itself, but these general measures should be mainly part of the first phase. When the relance arrives, we need to be much more specific and to keep in mind the goal we want to achieve in the future and who we will help in any way. This proposal fits perfectly into that framework: indeed, not everyone will get the same amount. Furthermore, we give the OMCWs in the field the responsibility in this respect, because they know perfectly who they are and how they can help people well, an approach that the sp.a group can fully support. These are two more reasons why we have not only co-signed the proposal but will also approve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is intended to support people who are affected by energy poverty through the Social Fund for Gas and Electricity. It will be recalled that the means of this federal fund have been frozen since 2012. It was not until December 2019 that our assembly unanimously decided to index the fund by increasing it by €6 million from €53 million to €59 million. This is a step forward that my group will, of course, support. He will support it because a CREG study shows that today, in Belgium, at least 400,000 households live in energy poverty. Isolated families, single-parent families, but also those with the lowest incomes, are the most vulnerable. According to the latest barometer of energy poverty at the request of the Fondation Roi Baudouin, more than one in five households live in energy poverty in Belgium. This figure has varied very little since 2009. This precarious situation affects 27.6% of households in Wallonia, 25.6% in Brussels and 15% in Flanders. People with limited financial resources risk spending a proportionately too high share of their budget on energy (measured energy preference), having to severely restrict their consumption (hidden energy preference) or not daring to heat their homes (feeling energy preference). Therefore, being part of a household with no income from work considerably increases the risk of being in a situation of energy insecurity. This affects more than 35% of unemployed households. Finally, energy poverty affects women in single-parent families, but also isolated women over 65 years of age. According to the Court of Auditors' estimates, the total cost of indexing the Fund for both electricity and gas would be over €6.3 million for 2020 and over €7 million for 2021. This substantial additional budget allocation will therefore help to combat household energy poverty better. We would like to acknowledge this measure and to thank the main author. As a result, my group will support this bill, as well as any subsequent parliamentary initiatives, in order to combat energy poverty more effectively, but also to improve the purchasing power of the most vulnerable households.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u135	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u136	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (978/7) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (978/7) (iii) the Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes - Common system of value added tax: uniform basis of assessment; (iv) a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes - Common system of value added tax: uniform basis of assessment; (v) a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes - Common system of value added tax: uniform basis of assessment; The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee to "legislative proposal laying down various provisions on the federal contribution to the financing of the gas and electricity social fund." The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u137	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u138	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Samuel Cogolati, Tinne Van der Straeten, Georges Gilkinet, Kristof Calvo, Albert Vicaire, Malik Ben Accour, Thierry Warmoes, Greet Daems. The Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (1164/3) The Committee on Energy, the Environment and Climate proposed that this proposal be rejected. (1164/3) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u139	Mr President, with your agreement, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, the controversy has been growing for several weeks now. Several communes, mainly in the south of the country, objected to this public consultation of the National Organization for Radioactive Waste and Fortified Fissile Material (ONDRAF) on its project to bury the most highly radioactive waste, which falls into full containment and in the midst of the crisis of the VOCID-19. In all parties, of all political colours, including in neighbouring countries, there were voices calling for the postponement of this consultation. That is exactly what we asked a month ago in the Committee on Energy: to be able to extend the deadline for the public consultation of ONDRAF so that all interested persons can speak, but also so that institutions such as the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN), but also the Federal Council on Sustainable Development, can deliver an opinion after the confinement period. We make this request with Tinne Van der Straeten, our colleague from Groen, but also with our colleagues Malik Ben Achour and Thierry Warmoes. This text was actually rejected a month ago, but within a few weeks at least three new and decisive elements were added to the debate. This is first of all the strong opposition of the Luxembourg Government. The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg noted several inconsistencies in the project for the landfill of highly radioactive waste and, above all, noted the need for a cross-border environmental impact study, including in our neighbouring countries – in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and Germany. Second, Germany raised itself with the government of Rhineland-Palatinate and formally asked the Belgian federal government to be able to conduct a cross-border impact study. Colleagues, a petition has been launched in Germany and – I have just checked it on exchange.org – has collected no less than 30,000 signatures in 24 hours. This is six times more than the reactions to the ONDRAF public inquiry that has been underway for a month and a half. And then, ladies and gentlemen, I come to the third aspect that we should really take into account. I am referring to all these very clear calls from the Belgian municipalities for the postponement of the public consultation of ONDRAF. A few weeks ago, you heard our colleague Josy Arens, mayor cdH of Attert, but several communal councils also spoke - all parties confused and, most often, unanimously - through motions: in Vielsalm, in Dinant, in Namur, in Huy – my commune – or in Virton. I know that the municipalities of the German-speaking Community are also planning this motion vote in the coming days. It is true that the South has spoken a lot through votes of motion by communal councils, but I must confess that it would seem to me quite logical that the people of the north of the country who live near the Mol site – cf. the clay of Boom and Ypres – can also be expressed. You know that the communal councils have seized on this particularly serious debate and project, but they have not been able to take place during the period of confinement. However, there are only two weeks left before the deadline of 13 June to formulate an informed opinion on such a serious subject as the burial of highly radioactive waste for a period of one million years. In 2018, ONDRAF estimated its budget at EUR 10.7 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, the least we can do would be simply to extend, as this motion for a resolution demands, the length of the public inquiry so that all interested persons can express themselves in an informed manner. That's all we want. We are not asking for the moon, but simply for a real public debate, based on expert opinions. It is a question of giving the floor to scientists and of objecting, as is necessary, to this public debate. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I very much hope that the many appeals made by our neighbours, but also by all those communes that have recently spoken, will be heard in this House so that we can bring participatory democracy to the local level in all our provinces. I therefore ask you to vote against the rejection of this text in the light of these three new elements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u141	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u142	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Christophe Lacroix, Melissa Depraetere, Patrick Prévot, Philippe Tison, Eliane Tillieux, Malik Ben Accour, Khalil Aouasti, Eric Thiébaut, Ludivine Dedonder, Ahmed Laaouej. The Committee on Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda proposes to reject this bill. (1153/5) The Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda proposes to reject this bill. (1153/5) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. The rapporteur is Mr Friart. He refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the health crisis, the issue of prices has been raised many times in this House: the price of protective equipment first, masks, hydro-alcoholic gels, soaps, washing gels, cleaning products needed to protect against the virus. My group noted that some distributors had appeared in our stations with masks of fabrics sold up to 15 euro coin. Today, however, we have gone into a debunk and, even more so than yesterday, it is necessary for health reasons that citizens and healthcare personnel have access to protective equipment at an affordable price. This is our first request. Health protection should not depend on your purchasing power or income. We have also mentioned many times the price of food products, as many people are now apprehensive of the time to go to the cash register. Many feel that they have nothing left in their shopping cart for 40 or 50 euros. They are told that there is no widespread inflation, that there is a temporary rise in prices due to the cessation of promotions and that everything will soon be in order. However, many households do not make this observation. They are experiencing difficulties, with incomes that have declined very significantly. A Test-Achats article yesterday showed that after a correction following the return of promotions, prices are going up again, with an unfavourable trend in some stores, where prices are 5.6% more expensive than at the beginning of March. According to Statbel's latest figures, the price of vegetables has increased by 5.9% in one month and the price of fresh fruit has increased by 11.8% in one year. With confinement, many children from disadvantaged or disadvantaged families no longer have access to school canteens. Care must therefore be taken to ensure that these families have access to a balanced diet at a reasonable cost. Colleagues, this bill finally requires two very simple things and it is incomprehensible that some parties – I think the right – block to oppose it. Firstly, we call for the price observatory to be put on alert to monitor the price of so-called essential goods. Secondly, we call for a re-establishment of price controls and for the federal government, if it deems it necessary, to set maximum prices for certain product categories. Such measures have existed. I would point out that price-fixing measures have been taken in many European countries. In France, a maximum price was set for hydro-alcoholic gels. In Italy, a prescription was made, setting the price of surgical masks at 50 cents of euro. In Spain, the State has set a maximum selling price for public surgical masks at 96 euro cents. In Portugal, the Ministers of Economy and Health signed a decree imposing a maximum profit of 15% on the sale of masks, disinfectant gels and medical devices. In Belgium, according to the SPF Economy, there is a deficiency in our legislation. Neither the Act of 22 January 1945, nor the Decree-Law of 14 May 1946, nor Book XVIII of the Code of Economic Law are adequate instruments for the Minister of Economy to intervene on prices. That is why we ask you to refer this text to the Committee on the Economy. The Price Observatory should be alerted and price developments for essential goods monitored. If prices have not risen, we can explain this to our fellow citizens. On the contrary, if there is an increase, a serious market failure and abusive speculation on products as essential in health as those I mentioned earlier, then the government will intervene by setting a maximum price. We cannot leave people in poverty and we cannot afford to allow speculation to be involved in the health crisis. We want a protective state, which protects its citizens from a whole series of abuses or deficiencies on the part of some who want to fatten themselves on the backs of the poorest. We want to make up for the legislative shortcomings, as the government is currently unable to react and set a maximum price.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u144	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u145	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u146	Ladies and gentlemen, I now turn to urgent requests. When we look at the list of requests, I am particularly curious to see which proposals will not receive the urgency. Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of your bill to grant a bonus to workers during the crisis of the VOCID-19, No. 1262/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u147	Mr President, this is a VOCID-19 premium, an income supplement that would be targeted for some workers, especially those who were directly affected and used to deal with the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u148	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u149	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1264/1 on partial reimbursement of car insurance premiums, in proportion to the length of confinement imposed by the VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u150	Mr President, it has been observed that during the Coronavirus crisis people used their cars less. That is why we would like to have a debate with our colleagues on a possible reduction of the insurance premium in proportion to the period during which people did not use their car. That is why we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u151	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u152	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1270/1 to improve the parental corona.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u153	Mr President, it has been observed that parental leave as it exists is not suitable for crisis situations like the one we have experienced with coronavirus. Here too, it is a matter of having a debate with colleagues on parental leave: is it adapted, or not, to the crisis situation we are experiencing? That is why we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u154	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u155	Mr Verherstraeten, I would like to inform you that for the bill containing book 2, title 3 "Relational property rights" and book 4 "Nalates, gifts and wills" of the Civil Code, No. 1272/1, the Council of State is being applied for.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u156	Mr President, this, too, is a legal work that makes matrimonial property law and inheritance law compatible with each other and that has been done by a lot of academics in the north and south of the country and is also subject to a thorough investigation by the Council of State. As you have noted, I do not therefore ask for urgency. This is merely as we did last week with the Code of Criminal Procedure, namely that we ask the Council of State to look at its legal merits before it is discussed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u157	Should I put that to the vote? I think it is normal for me to be asked to seek the advice of the Council of State, with the approval of the House, within a reasonable time. No rush. Mr De Smet, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No 1275/1 reducing the VAT rate on soaps, organic surface agents and preparations for washing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u158	Mr President, I know that it can make you smile, but in fact soap has become a basic necessities product, I believe. To encourage its reasonable consumption, we believe it is necessary to ensure that barrier actions continue to be respected. The reduction of VAT to a rate of 6% seems to us to require urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u159	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u160	The urgency of the motion for a resolution No. 1277/1 by Mrs Ponthier and Mrs Samyn to support international requests to investigate the role of China in the outbreak of the COVID-19 virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u161	Mr President, the question of joining the international requests to examine China's role in the outbreak of the COVID-19 crisis is urgent in our view. This should not be taken into account because a number of essential measures and policy choices that the Belgian Government will have to take in particular to the EU can be considered in the short term in another light or in another context and, if necessary, adapted. That is why the Flemish Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats calls for the urgency of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u162	I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u163	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1278/1 (Ms. Sophie Thémont and Ludivine Dedonder and Mr. Patrick Prévot) to extend the right of access to temporary unemployment to workers under student employment contracts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u164	Mr President, Kern+10 has expanded the possibilities of using students. It is therefore necessary to be able to apply the possibilities of being temporarily unemployed to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u165	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u166	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of your bill to promote purchasing power and to revive the economy following the crisis of the VOCID-19, No. 1282/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u167	Mr President, it is a text which aims to have a debate on the revival in various committees, but essentially the Finance Committee, in connection with the VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u168	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u169	I tolerated this majority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u170	I think you have no other choice, Mr Verherstraeten. I'd turn it around, I think you'll be tolerated for a while. The urgency is also requested for the proposal No. 1284/1 by Mrs Kathleen Depoorter on the temporary VAT refund for medical devices provided by public institutions and recognised institutions with a view to providing them free of charge to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr De Roover motivates the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u171	Mr President, the European Commission has decided that medicinal products, medical devices and medical protective equipment can be imported free of VAT in certain circumstances. There is then a rate of zero percent VAT. Where the same institutions purchase these goods from Belgian producers under the same conditions, they must pay, as appropriate, 6% or 21% VAT. This means that we are faced with the bizarre situation of disadvantage, which we want to eliminate. As we are also talking about medicines, medical devices and medical protective equipment in the context of the corona pandemic, we are asking for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u172	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u173	When I see how majorities are created here, I wonder why it is so difficult to form a government. Mrs Kitir called for the urgency of the proposal for a resolution by Mrs Anja Vanrobaeys setting up a re-launch plan for the artistic and event sector, No. 1285/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u174	Mr President, it is well known that the artistic sector and the event sector have also been very badly affected by COVID-19. At the moment, there is still no regulation for this. That is why we are calling for the urgency of our motion for a resolution. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the request. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u175	The urgency is requested by Mr Van Quickenborne for the bill of Ladies Tania De Jonge and Kathleen Verhelst concerning exceptional and urgent measures for annual holidays in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, No. 1288/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u176	Mr President, we are asking for urgency. The proposal introduces exceptional and urgent measures for annual holidays under the Covid pandemic. Without prejudice to statutory and collective agreements, employment regulations or individual employment contracts, the proposal creates flexibility, allowing employers, in consultation with their employees, to exceptionally decide to jump with the holiday periods before the summer of 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u177	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u178	Mr Buysrogge, you are asking for urgency on the proposal for resolution No. 1289/1 on further participation in Operation Inherent Resolve (OIR). I assume that Mr De Roover will defend the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u179	Mr President, I will defend the request for urgency with fire, but I would like to point out that this motion for a resolution is somewhat in line with the proposal No. 1298/1 by Mr Jadin, who is also asking for urgency. Firstly, some clarity for our partners is of course important. Secondly, it is also about costs because certain orders will have to be placed and contracts will have to be concluded. From that point of view, too, we can make a decision quickly. Finally, it is also useful for the defence staff concerned to know quickly where they stand. Hence our request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u180	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u181	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of Bill No. 1290/1 amending the Act of 26 May 2002 concerning the right to social integration and aimed at raising the rate of reimbursement of social integration income in order to enable CPAS to respond favourably to the urgency of the field, in particular in the context of the crisis linked to the VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u182	Mr President, I think everything is in the title of the bill. This is a re-evaluation of certain social income and minimum income, to help the more vulnerable public to cope with the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u183	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u184	I would like to turn to Mr Benoît Piedboeuf's motion for a resolution No 1291/1 to put in place a coherent aid plan for the horeca sector in the context of the coronavirus crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u185	Mr President, normally and if everyone agrees, my motion for a resolution must be attached to the proposals that were urgently proposed last week. If something extraordinary, the Kern +10 wasn't to land on a plan this weekend, then we'd work together!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, if no one objects, the motion for a resolution No 1291/1 will be attached to the proposals which have already been given urgency last week. Mr Ravyts, you are asking for the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 1294/1 amending Royal Decree No. 20 of 20 July 1970 fixing the rates of value added tax and the classification of goods and services in those rates to reduce the VAT rate on restaurant and catering services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u187	Mr President, we have just heard that the hospitality coalition is in the process of asking for a temporary measure. We are asking for urgency for a proposal which seeks to go further and which is of a structural nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u188	As with the previous proposal, it is just as good as this proposal could be added to next week's discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u189	That is why I am asking for a separate vote. There is consistency with the other proposals in the same context. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u190	The urgency is also requested for the legislative proposal No. 1295/1 by Mrs Bercy Slegers and Mr Servais Verherstraeten laying down various provisions on justice in the context of the fight against the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus and various other provisions on justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u191	Mr President, it is a diversity of provisions to make every effort to enable justice to function in the COOVID-19 period. It is mainly related to the operational working environment of Justice to avoid physical contacts by, for example, exchanging documents and using buildings. This includes digitisation, videoconferencing and so on. Since it is a proposal that has also been prepared for the cabinet of justice, I ask that you send it to the Council of State according to the case law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u192	For advice in five days?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u193	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u194	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u195	Then I'll send the proposal to the Council of State for an opinion within five days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u196	The urgency is also requested for the proposal No. 1296/1 the temporary reduction of wages, the transfer of wages and the execution of the contract against private individuals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u197	Mr President, the current regime expires on 17 June. The effects of the corona measures will take much longer. We call for urgency with a view to extending the current measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u198	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u199	There is also the question of urgency for Mrs Kattrin Jadin's motion for a resolution on operational deployment in the context of Operation Inherent Resolve (OIR), No. 1298/1. This proposal is attached to the other proposal, which has been given urgency. There is consistency, so that follows the same rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u200	Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of what we agreed at the Conference of Presidents, the necessary steps will soon be taken to register all these proposals on the agenda of the committees. It happens automatically. The House has recorded this and we will not have to decide next week what is to be added. Tomorrow, all these proposals for which urgency was accepted will be sent to the committees. This also answers the question raised a few weeks ago in relation to the timely answer of the questions. This becomes a little less urgent as the agenda of the committees is filled with legislative work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u201	Mr President, you said a long time ago that you would always ask the Court of Auditors' opinion on the cost of pending proposals for discussion in the Chamber. Can you do the same for the proposals mentioned? I would recommend that positively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u202	Mr Verherstraeten, I wanted to do so on my own initiative. They wouldn't give me that much power. I understand there's a suspicion of distrust towards my person. However, you can form a certain majority. Of course, a committee can always ask for that advice. Sooner or later, we will have to sum up what we are all being presented with. We have not yet approved these proposals, but I note that a certain degree of constant justice is developing. Each committee is free to ask for the opinion of the Court of Auditors to know what the correct budgetary repercussions are of anything that Parliament may approve in its wisdom.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u203	This inquiry was developed in an open meeting of the Committee on External Relations on 19 May 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the External Relations Commission on 19 May 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 12/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Ms. Annick Ponthier; - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Michel De Maegd and André Flahaut. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 12/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mrs Annick Ponthier; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Michel De Maegd and Mr André Flahaut. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u204	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the effects of the spread of the coronavirus are painfully felt worldwide in the field of public health. But also in economic and geopolitical terms, we have been in an unprecedented crisis. Meanwhile, the share and responsibility of the Communist regime of the People's Republic of China is increasingly being questioned. Many irregularities that come to light very slowly, scientists who disappeared, samples that were destroyed, doctors who are silenced, reports that accuse China of deliberately destroying or hiding evidence about the outbreak of the virus, etc., all lead to the conclusion that a thorough international investigation is appropriate. We do not have to wait until the epidemic is over as China and the World Health Organisation are now suggesting. With a regime that seems to be concerned only with its own reputation and with the development of a propaganda machine and an indifference to the effects of the virus, with hundreds of thousands of sick and many deaths as a sad result, a clear vision must be developed quickly and the European Union must be called upon to maintain strategic sectors and the production of important strategic stocks within the European Union. Hence the motion of recommendation tabled by the Vlaams Belangroep on the committee last week. We ask that we do not move on to the order of the day as the simple motion asks, but that we agree with the demand for an international independent investigation into the root cause of the outbreak of the virus and the negligence in relation to the communist regime in China.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u205	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u206	Yes 91 Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u207	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Hans Verreyt cs on Article 6. (1173/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Hans Verreyt cs to Article 6. (1173/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[19]] Yes No. 102 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 144 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 6 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u208	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 126 Yes No. [[20]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 146 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1173/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1173/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u209	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 147 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1176/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1176/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u210	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u211	Mr President, the Labour Party will support the legislative proposal. A situation has arisen in which categories of workers are treated unequally. Pensioners who have a side-serve as self-employed may rely on a right of bridging. Pensioners who have retired earlier than 65 years and still earn income from a supplementary income as an employee can also benefit from the right to temporary unemployment. This must, of course, also be possible for pensioners over the age of 65. This legislative proposal eliminates discrimination in this area. That is a good thing, but we want to tackle the problem at the root and avoid the need for pensioners to feel forced to make extra money if they have worked their whole lives. Of course, this can only be done by increasing statutory pensions, which are the minimum pension. We have tabled a legislative proposal for this, on the basis of a citizens' initiative for which more than a hundred thousand people have chosen. We hope that we will be able to start discussions on this in Parliament in the near future. We also hope, of course, that this very popular demand will be followed up. That would really be a structural improvement for many pensioners, who are currently struggling. That was before the corona crisis, by the way. In any case, we will approve the proposal, because many pensioners are already living in precarious conditions. As long as the minimum pension is not raised, they can only fall back on their additional earnings. If they can rely on economic unemployment, that is a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u212	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 123 Yes No. [[25]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1228/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1228/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u213	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 145 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 145 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (703/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (703/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u214	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (978/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (978/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u215	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u216	We regret that this consultation has not yet been suspended or extended. We fully understand the fear of municipalities that may have to accept highly radioactive waste. For example, the Namur Communal Council voted unanimously on Tuesday, on a proposal from the College and with, among other things, the MR aldermen, a motion to extend this consultation and refuse nuclear waste on its territory. Several experts are unanimous: even in normal times, two months of consultation is far too short. A year would not be too long to conduct an analysis worthy of this name of the principle of storage proposed by ONDRAF. With the confinement and media occupation taken by the coronavirus, there is reason to wonder whether the conditions are really in place to ask the citizen to think about the management of highly radioactive waste. The fact that the ONDRAF wants to pursue the business as usual while we are in a health crisis and that people are gripped by the consequences of this crisis demonstrates a desire to limit public participation, to contain criticisms that could be disturbing when this is a problem that will stretch over thousands of years. For all these reasons, the PTB will vote against the rejection of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u217	Mr President, I would like to give an explanation of vote because we will vote in a different way than in the committee meeting. This is a very important discussion. However, discussions should not be confused. We believe that the current debate should not be postponed. The debate in our country must finally take place. The nuclear waste has been there for far too long. This is also a very important issue for us. We have noticed that many reactions have already been made to the present procedure. In our view, therefore, the COVID-19 crisis was not really an obstacle to carrying out this public investigation in a proper way. We also have great respect for the reactions from our neighbouring countries and for those who are concerned. We will therefore no longer oppose any extension of that procedure. That is why we will abstain from voting today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u218	Mr President, we regret that this motion for a resolution was rejected in committee, as it seemed to us to be in common sense, given the health circumstances caused by VOCID-19. I also think of the need for transparency expressed by many municipalities. We missed something in this case. The mistrust of ONDRAF will only intensify. We know the communication of at least one commune – which has been cited – that has not been notified by the authorities. We will therefore vote against this rejection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u219	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also wish to justify my group's vote. We do not support the demands of the Ecolo-Groen Group, in particular the extension of the duration of the public consultation on nuclear waste management. Indeed, the ONDRAF, an independent and transparent body, I would like to point out, respects absolutely all the provisions of the law. I would like to point out that the consultation as called for by ONDRAF is in no way incompatible with the containment measures. These consultations did not provide for a meeting, a panel of experts or the need for physical contact between individuals. It should also be noted that further public consultations are being organised and are being carried out at this very moment at all levels of power, whether at European or regional level and on equally important subjects. Finally, and contrary to what we have heard from the Minister of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the current investigation is only aimed at establishing the principle of burial. Other issues such as the choice of location – and this is quite another thing – will be dealt with later and at that time always with new public consultations. Let's not create a false problem and then surf it! It's cheating people on such a sensitive case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u220	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all the countries of the OECD and the European Union with at least one nuclear reactor for electricity production have now formally opted for geological final disposal. Only Italy, Mexico and Belgium have not yet decided on the long-term management of their highly radioactive and long-lived waste. In our group's view, therefore, it is high time that the Belgian regulatory framework finally confirmed whether, as a policy for the management of medium- and high-radioactive nuclear waste, geological storage was chosen. Mr Verduyckt, at the committee meeting on 15 January, you said: 'It is very important that the decision-making process is finally started and that decisions are made, because funding depends on how'. Colleague, let the decision-making process go ahead and don't forget.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u221	Mr President, we will therefore reject the rejection, because we believe that this consultation procedure must take place under the best possible conditions. It is only an element of a very long procedure, but a major one. We are not just a few weeks away, just so that this happens in the best possible way. The second reason is that while some mention the fact that the confinement did not prevent the consultation from being held, it is partly true and partly incorrect. Indeed, many communal councils have not been held during this period of confinement and the municipal councils and citizens must obviously be able to position themselves in the consultation on this issue. Extending it by a few weeks would in any case make it possible to make the best possible transparency and take the various opinions into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u222	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u223	Yes 80 Yes Non 61 No. Abstensions 7 Abstentions Total 148 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Motion for a resolution No 1164/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal of Resolution No. 1164/1 was therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u224	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u225	Mr President, we are going to vote against the rejection because this bill has two very clear objectives: on the one hand, to strengthen the role of the observatory, price monitoring and therefore to introduce transparency which will enable consumers to explain why prices have risen; on the other hand, to equip the state and its government with a tool to control prices when the market derails and does not play the role it must play. In other words, we must have a state that protects consumers and, in particular, the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u226	Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u227	Yes 70 Yes Non 60 No. Abstensions 18 Abstentions Total 148 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 1153/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 1153/1 was therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-28-55-plenair-ip042x.u228	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 4 June 2020 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, June 4, 2020 at 2:15 p.m.
