ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u1	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the development of a smartphone app with a view to deconfining the population is increasingly being discussed in Europe. Your own firm has been working on this issue for several weeks. Many state institutions, academic, scientific or private actors offer solutions that are difficult to assess. It does not prevent, for my group, three fundamental and cumulative principles from guiding the implementation of such an application if it were to take shape: first, the necessity; second, the protection of privacy; third, the trust of the citizen. We must be cautious and even wary of the too easy solutions offered by new technologies. Today, who is able to demonstrate that an application will have a decisive impact in deconfining while the very modalities of deconfining are not yet fully known? The first question is: why do we need an application and what objectives we do not yet know? Even if privacy data is protected – I will come back – it will necessarily be processed by this application. However, every manipulation of personal data poses a risk to the privacy of citizens. If a risk is to be taken, we must be sure that there is no alternative. Those who defend the use of an application will first have to demonstrate its necessity and added value. If these are demonstrated, the application will have to be terminated as soon as the need has disappeared. If it is eventually to be extended, it will only be at the end of the same process that will have allowed its initial implementation. Require the least intrusive and risky application in terms of privacy is just as fundamental. There can be no question of giving up one freedom for another. The right to health does not negate the right to privacy and medical secrecy. Under no circumstances should an application allow the re-identification of its user even indirectly. The technology chosen must anticipate this risk and be regarded as potentially the target of entities with almost unlimited technical and financial means, as the State Security has reminded us. Decentralization and minimization of data should be given priority. The technology chosen must be made accessible to the scientific community that can confirm or criticize its safety. For example, the choice of Bluetooth technology seems to have advantages of efficiency but also risks that cannot be ignored. Finally, and this is perhaps the most underestimated aspect so far, implementation must have the confidence of citizens. Membership must be voluntary and under no circumstances compulsory. We can only hope for a broad consensus on this principle, but that is not enough. The legitimate mistrust of citizens will have to be anticipated. This will require a transparent and justified choice of institutions and persons involved in the development of enforcement, whether in terms of their competence or independence. Their work will have to be made public but before that, the application will have to be framed by a specific law debated, defended, criticized, explained and approved or rejected in a public debate in Parliament. The debate should focus on the need for and guarantees for such an application and should be fed by experts, the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority. Another imperative is for citizens to be sure that the application will only serve the predefined objectives. It will therefore be prohibited for an employer, a police officer, a carrier, an event organizer to require the use of the application. Minister, do you recognize the importance of demonstrating the need for application in the fight against coronavirus within well-defined objectives? Do you also acknowledge that, in the absence of predefined objectives, there can be no question of implementing an application that would process personal data? Do you recognize that an application is of interest only if its objectives cannot be met effectively by other means? Do you recognize that every application that processes personal data presents a risk that cannot be ignored? In such a framework, do you undertake to put in place sufficient safeguards to ensure that the application is developed with the greatest transparency, on the basis of open and accessible standards, that its use is voluntary and not compulsory, that it is regulated by a law debated in Parliament after the advice of experts, the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u2	I shall now give the floor to Mr Mahdi. You have four questions, which can be put at once. You do not need to use four times two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u3	Minister, I did indeed have four questions, some of which have already been partially answered. They deal with the different facets of the application in itself. My first question concerns the effectiveness of such an application. We have had a hearing where a lot of questions have been asked about effectiveness, taking into account that bluetooth also has a number of weaknesses. Moreover, bluetooth cannot perceive whether there is plexiglass or a wall between people. There could be a lot of false positives in between. In particular, I have seen the Minister move into the debate. In March of this year it was said that there is a need for one Belgian app. A few weeks later it was said that there should be different apps, one in each region. Now there would be apps everywhere, so to speak, on every street. The last observation is that apparently there is no need for an app after all. My first question about effectiveness is a simple yes-no question. Minister, do you believe that an app is really necessary in the fight against COVID-19? It is important to get an answer to this before we start thinking about its possible roll-out. Second of all, what's an app like this gonna look like? I know your cabinet was already working on a draft. The question was how the data are kept. We also received a lot of reactions during the hearing. These included the advantages and disadvantages of a central and decentralised storage system. There too, experience from abroad teaches us that countries that initially opted for a central storage also moved to a decentralised storage facility. This was the case in Germany, for example, but also at European level. There they were initially in favour of the PEPP-PT system, and moving to the DP3T system. Minister, do you believe that DP3T is the best system for storing data? To what extent will we outline a framework at the federal level in which the regions make clear what the rules are and whether these rules are central or decentralised. In addition, there are questions about a possible basis of support. In Austria, there is an app that uses 3% of the population. In Singapore, that percentage rises to 16%. No one gets 60%. The hearing also made it clear that 60% is impossible, whatever spectacular actions the Minister is doing. It is important, however, how much support can be given to reassure people, regardless of the number of percent that can be achieved. It is then important to know when the data that is kept from the people will be deleted. How long have they been keeping records? It is irrelevant whether these data are tracked using an app or manual tracing. People need to know what happens to their data. The League for Human Rights addressed, not unjustly, the subject of social pressure. Such an application may be non-binding and should not be installed, but there is also social pressure. Some may decide not to download that app, go to work, and make it clear to their colleagues or employers that it is better to download such an app. How is this handled so that care, work and travel are not denied to people who do not opt for such an application? The app will not be required, but no bonus points or positive elements may be added to having such an application. The way in which the developers of such an application or the application itself are chosen is also not insignificant. Different opinions were expressed on this during the hearing. In the Netherlands, a public procedure had been launched and, I feel, that was a very positive event. Politics has thus made it clear to the people that they think the privacy hatch is very important and that it is going to work with it. All the information was available on YouTube and the debates could be followed. It was also useful to simplify parliamentary work. Is the Minister in favour of public proceedings? The procedures for tracing are the responsibility of the regions, but the Federal Parliament is responsible for the legal framework that is being developed for this purpose. The Federal Parliament cannot say that the regions are responsible and do not deal with them further. If there is a data breach or if there are shortcomings in the system, the Federal Parliament will be responsible for that in the first place. What minimum conditions do you provide, not only for an app, but also for manual tracing, to ensure that citizens' privacy is guaranteed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u4	Minister, just over a week ago, I raised a question on contact tracing in the Committee on Health, of which I am a permanent member. That question concerned the app, but especially the call centre. Meanwhile, that question is dated, so I changed it. Once the lockdown measures are relaxed, it is important to keep the number of new infections as low as possible. In addition to the use of mouth masks and sufficient testing capacity, the contact investigation of those who appear to be infected is an important element of this exit strategy. In this contact investigation you can use an app, which is today the subject of the questions in this committee, which monitors the contacts that someone has had for a certain period of time. In developing the app, it is important that the right to privacy is respected. During the hearing last week we received a lot of interesting comments. We heard there, among other things, that volunteering is a crucial factor and that the use of such an app can never be required, which we consider to be a good thing. The hearing focused on the federal framework to be established to guarantee the right to privacy, but also on the fact that such an app is only successful and useful if at least 60% of the population uses it. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, what actions can be taken to ensure that sufficient people use the app voluntarily? I also wonder whether it is realistic to think that we would get 60% of the people who would like to use this app voluntarily. Secondly, we consider the processing of personal data to be very important, even in the case of a voluntary system. It must therefore be necessary and proportionate to process those personal data. I suspect that there can be very little discussion about the necessity, but the question is whether it is also proportionate to process this data. What framework is needed to ensure that the personal data and the app are deleted after the crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u5	Mr President, Minister, you will have noticed in recent days that many legitimate concerns have been expressed about the now published royal decision on manual tracing. I realize that both the content of the royal decree and the way of working, through a royal decree, will be the subject of discussion at another time. However, I am pleased that we can already discuss privacy when using an app in Parliament today. On this basis, we must always work on such issues, not by quickly passing a text through a royal decision. As with the use of an app, it is important that there are sufficient privacy guarantees for human contact tracing. I have a number of questions about that. Minister, the manual tracing calls people or visits them at home. In this approach, the extent to which detailed data on one's own life should be transmitted is at least invasive. Do you think that manual tracing offers more or less guarantees of privacy and the privacy of people in relation to an app? The information collected through contact tracing would also be used for so-called policy support purposes. That seems to me to be a very broad concept. What do these policy-support purposes mean? Do you want to combine the data collected via contact tracing with other forms of data, such as telecom data? If that's what you're planning, how do you want to make sure this doesn't violate privacy? Do you see the possibility for technology, such as an app, to complement the manual contact tracing, to facilitate automation or possibly because an app offers more privacy guarantees?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u6	Mr President, Minister, we have already discussed contact tracing, human tracing in this crisis. It is an important part of the exit strategy, along with testing and social distancing. This tracing is largely the responsibility of the regions. In Flanders one can at least talk about a bumpy course in this respect. Following a unsuccessful tender, Brussels has now joined the sickness funds, which have concluded a cooperation with call centres for this purpose. At the Inter-Ministerial Conference on 20 April, the date of 3 May was very clearly put forward by you. There was a clear demand to start on 3 May. That was apparently too optimistic for the Flemish level, because Minister Beke said yesterday that it would now happen on 11 May and that there would be a trial run in the meantime. That brings me immediately to another question from me. From the beginning I understood, and you said so, that the training of the people who would do so must be very thorough. Now it turns out they're just gonna test it for a week. Now it also turns out that the people who man the phones should not have medical prior knowledge, only those who are deployed on the premises. Have these people's standards, levels and competences been reduced to move quickly? Was this minimized? If so, what is your view on this? I'm still looking forward to the following. At the very beginning the GEES said very clearly that they would much rather have more contact trackers than the 2,000 that were eventually pushed forward. I would very much like to know how many there will be in practice. If I understand correctly, the 1,200 of Flanders are still not all there. I really would have liked to know how many there are in Flanders right now? What is the state of play in the other regions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u7	You're gonna have to finish up. You've been at three minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u8	The software platform should also be finished. Can you give us an update on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u9	Minister, this is an important debate and we are happy to be able to hold it in Parliament. For us, it was fundamental in the context of our resolution and the exchanges that we can have together. I wanted to ask you some direct questions following the hearings we organized and the exchanges we had with your firm. Minister, are you going to introduce a bill to frame this potential digital application? If so, will it respect the tags contained in the resolution we have tabled, which was co-signed by sp.a, PS, Vld, cdH and Challenge? It's important to us to be able to continue our work. In addition, there have been conflicting communications in recent weeks. It was understood that the framework was federal but that implementation would take place at the regional level. What discussions have taken place with the Regions? The press reports that there have been discussions on specific types of applications and suppliers. Are you in favour of DP3T technology, which was presented to us at hearings? What is the agreement with the Regions? What's he on? As regards the Data Protection Authority (PDA), its chairman told us in committee that he was also a member of the Data Against Corona Task Force. The Chair of ODA will therefore potentially have to decide on applications that the task force of which he is a member will develop. Don't you see that as a difficulty? We see one. I wanted your opinion on this. Can you tell us who is part of the Data Against Corona Task Force? Finally, some companies are themselves implementing applications within them. What legal framework will then have to apply? What are you planning on doing this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u10	Minister, I have a question about the contact tracing platform. Since Monday, the general practitioners can test more widely so that people with limited symptoms who do not need to be hospitalized can also be tested. If someone tests positive, they're supposed to follow contact tracing. While the tracing itself is a competence of the regions, setting up the platform is a federal competence. Minister, exactly what data are stored on this central platform? How long will they be kept? Who has access? What data do the contact trackers have specific access to? Do they have access to all data or is that limited? Does Sciensano have access to the data? For which applications will the data be used, only for contact tracing or also for statistics? When was the order given to set up the platform? From what date will it become operational? How many days before the symptoms will the contacts be detected? Is this date indicated by the doctor or is it determined on another basis? What basis is it based on in the latter case? As far as I can tell, one looks back to 48 hours before the onset of the symptoms, but certain scientific studies suggest that one is already contagious. Some even speak of four days before the onset of symptoms, and the WHO also recommends this period. How soon will the contact trackers start firing? Has there been a maximum time sticking to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u11	Minister, on 23 April, you told Villa Politica that an application is not necessary for the search for contacts. You also pointed out that very few people would use the app. In Austria, only 4% of the population uses it despite a Red Cross campaign. In your opinion, membership of at least 60% of the population would be needed to be effective. You said the same week that there would be no special powers order on the issue of a corona application. In the meantime, it appeared that there was a draft decision and that the Data Protection Authority had issued an opinion. The Chair of ODA was invited to committee last week. It is remarkable that he did not say a word about it. Questions have been raised earlier on a possible conflict of interest between the Chair of ODA. It is part of your working group and is both responsible for providing critical advice on the legislative initiatives you are taking. Professor Preneel, himself a participant in the DP3T consortium, was also invited to the committee hearings. He assured that the DP3T protocol was completely safe. However, a critical document on the same protocol concluded that "decentralization creates more threats to privacy than it solves. In fact, anonymously declared sick persons can be desanonymized; people who are met in private can be discovered and people can be forced to reveal their private data." Minister, in relation to all these elements, do you still think that a Corona application is not useful? What is the position of the Data Against Corona Task Force? Do you confirm that such an application would not be effective or useful if less than 60% of the population used it? What are the privacy risks in the potential deployment of such an application? What is your opinion and that of the task force on the DP3T protocol and on the critical document which states that the protocol is as unsafe as a central system? Do you confirm here and now that there will be no proxy decision on a corona application? Finally, what do you think of the existing conflicts of interest on the ODA president who will have to give his critical opinion on a possible bill, while he is himself a member of the Task Force? During the hearings, we learned that two of the five participants were part of this task force. Can you tell me who composes the Task Force Data & Technology against Corona? What is the identity of all its members, whether actual or alternate, ad hoc or permanent? How do they participate in this task force? What is the legal basis for this composition? How did the designations take place? Who took care of it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u12	Minister, any trace of the virus must be associated, in order to be effective, not only in the screening aspect, but also in the isolation of positive people, in addition to the barrier measures. This is a major health issue, especially since this VOCID-19 is an extremely rapid and contagious virus. A balance must be struck between health and privacy. You announced a bill on digital tracing. Will the key features of this bill be decentralization, including through the DP3T system, on a voluntary basis, by anonymizing data, in a transitional manner and linked to the VOCID-19 pandemic, and via Bluetooth? It seems to me that it is the conditions that emerge from all the interlocutors who want to provide sufficient guarantees. What is the status of the Data Against Corona Task Force? Has any work already been done in the last few weeks at the operational level? Did she participate in the bill? What is his exact job and investment? With regard to effectiveness, you said that 60% of people must adhere to this application in order to be effective. I'm pretty surprised by what you said. According to my research, the only study on this subject comes from Oxford University and it shows that it is not a minimum of 60% to be effective but to stop the virus completely. This study also shows that even with less adherence, there is already effectiveness. I would therefore like you to tell us more about this; what is your scientific basis on this aspect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u13	Minister, the Restricted Council of Ministers has adopted a Royal Order of Special Powers. The data of persons tested positive for VOCID-19, as well as those with whom they have been in contact, will be stored in a database created by Sciensano. During his hearing in the Economy Committee last week, the chairman of the ODA insisted that the maximum security of the protection of this data be guaranteed. Manual tracing must comply with the same privacy and confidentiality requirements as a possible contact tracing application. Both shall be complementary to testing and barrier measurements. The Regions would be ready to launch manual tracing. However, it will not address the problem of healthy asymptomatic carriers. I am pleased to note that Mr Soors, the first author of the motion for a resolution, is concerned about the framework for manual tracing. The amendments I have tabled partly address this problem and try to frame manual tracing. On 5 May, you had a meeting with your European counterparts on the use of tracing applications. The Vice-President of the Commission told the European Parliament that privacy must be guaranteed and that applications must dialogue with each other using a decentralised server. It is the technology that has also been advocated here in committee. Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. What data will be collected and stored in the Sciensano database and by whom will it be fed? What measures will ensure the maximum security of this database? What is the status of your discussions with the Regions on manual tracing and on a contact tracing application? Can you briefly present the conclusions and possible measures agreed with your European colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u14	This brings us to the end of the questions that have been tabled, but it is a topical debate, so Members of other groups who have not yet spoken can also ask for the floor. Mrs Rohonyi, either you intervene now to ask a question or then to reply. It's either one or the other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u15	Minister, contact tracing is one of the key elements of the deconfination that we started this Monday. This 6 May, however, the first phase of this scheme is not yet in progress. The staff of the contact centres are currently being recruited or trained. However, the Monday Interministerial Conference confirmed that, as early as mid-week, infected patients would be joined by a call centre. Therefore, one may wonder whether the privacy beacons can be guaranteed by a system that is built in less than a week. In addition, questions remain about the operation of these call centres, which are the responsibility of the Regions, but for which the federal government must also assume its share of responsibility in terms of coordination. Moreover, Minister, at the meeting of the Public Health Commission on 15 April, you said that the federal and regional levels had to cooperate. The Prime Minister also confirmed last Thursday in plenary that the federal government would support the Regions in this mission. Questions also arise as to the possibility of a mobile application. My colleagues have returned extensively. The Federal Government is competent to define the legal basis for this. Minister, can you tell me how the exchange of information will take place if a contaminated patient is domiciled in one Region, while most of his contacts live in another? Will the essentials pass through the Sciensano database? In this regard, can you assure us that the legal basis will take place in a bill – not a bill – and that it will be sent for notice to the Council of State? Given the loopholes in the call center system highlighted during last week's hearings – particularly because of the impossibility of remembering the identity of all the people we've met in the last 15 days or the fact that the meeting lasted more than 15 minutes – is the mobile application still under consideration? If that is the case, can you confirm that, in spite of everything, you will not draft any draft legislation until such time as no such request has been made by the three Regions? Indeed, at last Thursday's plenary, you undertook to take into account all the criteria that will be set out in our motion for a resolution – which we have not yet voted on. In any case, some experts believe that the ideal contact tracing would be a combination of call centers and mobile app. What do you think? As my colleagues have also pointed out, what is the threshold for voluntary membership of the population to make a mobile application operational and effective? It is true that most experts cite the figure of 60% but, for example, during his hearing in committee, Professor Preneel of the KU Leuven, referred to efficiency with a coverage of only 15 to 25% of the population. I conclude with a more fundamental question than ever before, which my colleagues have also asked. What is the precise composition of the Data Against Corona Task Force? Last Wednesday, in the Justice Committee, the representative of your cabinet gave the identity of the people who make up the ethics committee of the task force but still not that of the members of the cabinets, the SPF, Sciensano or the eHealth platform that make up this task force. I think it is more than time to make transparency on this task force.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u16	As no one is asking to speak, I give the floor to you, Minister. I understand that you will respond with a powerpoint presentation and that you will share it on the screen. I will give you the floor to answer the many questions you have been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u17	Mr President, I have indeed summarised this in a power point. That seems possible, so I stick to the fashion of the day to work with power points. The Chamber will have to allow me to share my screen, otherwise it is not possible to share my power point with anyone. I will try to systematically review the various questions and also to clarify the way in which the task force has been put together, what its operation has been and what different themes he has all dealt with in recent weeks. The task force was set up on 13 March at the request of Minister De Block and myself. He consists of a number of people from the various cabinets, such as Joseph Fattouch of my cabinet and Etienne Mariën of the De Block cabinet. The eHealth platform is represented by Frank Robben. Sciensano has changing representatives depending on the needs that exist. The FPS Public Health is also present and of course also the Data Protection Authority that we asked on board to ensure that privacy was guaranteed from the start. We asked the chairman of the Data Protection Authority, David Stevens, to attend the meetings. I may say from the outset, for the sake of clarity, that the opinions on legislative proposals or draft laws are given by the knowledge centre within the Data Protection Authority. Every time there was a discussion there, the persons involved in the task force apologized and therefore did not take part in the debate. However, it was essential for us to clarify the various proposals we had received from the outset, so that we would know if there were any privacy issues there. That is why we asked for the Data Protection Authority to come to the table. From the outset, the task force's objectives were to examine how data could be used to map the spread of the epidemic. Secondly, it also looked at how data could be used to prepare and evaluate measures taken and proclaimed during the lockdown. Thirdly, it was necessary to consider how the spread of the virus could be stopped with data and technology. On March 13th, the telecom workstream started. An e-mail address was created on 21 March to receive centralised proposals on everything related to data. On 28 March there was a first meeting with the Regions and Communities on contact tracing. It was already clear at that time that this was their competence and that they had to express their views on how they would organise contact tracing and on what support measures the federal level should take. This applies both to the data flows that had to be set up for the call centres, and to the discussion around the app. On March 30th, a design on modelling was added. On 30 April, the consolidation of the various workstreams, which I will be explaining later, started towards one major goal, namely the establishment of a kind of predictive model, using different data inputs to look at how the epidemic is evolving and quickly picking up signals from a possible second wave. This will enable rapid action to be taken. This will be the final objective of the Task Force. So the task force has different workflows. The first workflow relates to the aggregated and anonymised telecom data and epidemiological data analysis on the spread and risk of further spread of the virus. The second stream of work consolidates and brings together the different models on the evolution of the epidemic as well as potential scenarios for the next phase of the crisis. In the third workflow, technological applications that can support the fight against the virus are studied and framed. The fourth workflow relates to the tools and strategies for the post-crisis phase. This is about further researching technology that can be used in contact research. In the dark blue you can see the core of the task force with the people just mentioned. For the first workflow, telecom, an operational team of telecom operators works. On the other hand, people from Dalberg Data Insights work there under Frédéric Pivet, Laurent Hublet and Sébastien Deletaille. These are data modelers and data scientists. An ethical committee has been set up in the first stream of work since day one. You can see who's on that committee. I will explain this later. A number of epidemiologists and virologists were also added, if necessary, to see if, for example, a number of ongoing studies should take a certain direction. In the second workflow, support for modelling, the operational team is a core team that is also in the GEES today, Niel Hens and Marius Gilbert, people from Sensano, Raymond Van Oyen, Toon Braeye, Katrien Tersago and Mrs Demoury. It concerns the team of Sciensano, which is also working on the data analysis and various academics involved. The purpose of this stream is to bring the different models together. Mr.Niel Hens is the best known exponent of this and to see how a much finer model can be built. It's been fine tuned in the last few weeks. A third steam is the prioritisation of tools. The task force's core team has been working on that. We received requests from many different applications, different types of applications than the tracking apps. We have provided a piece of guidance there. A fourth stream is all that has to do with contact research and strategies after the peak of the crisis. Now I will go into the various aspects of the task force in more detail. With respect to workstream 1, thanks to telecom data, we looked at how people's mobility has an impact on the transmission of the virus. In this stream are representatives of the task force, the three telecom operators and Sciensano, as well as the people I mentioned in the previous slide. They have been given a government mandate to do this, and we have created a Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) covering all aspects of GDPR, in order to be sure to remain within the framework of the European regulation. We signed non-disclosure agreements (NDA) with telephone operators to make sure the data was usable. There is also a code of conduct created by the Ethics Committee. We also introduced ad hoc experts such as Catherine Linard, Nicolas de Gord (?) and Sarah Depreo (?) which have helped us to develop the use of this data. The ethics committee includes individuals with expertise in data science, and others in epidemiology and virology. In addition, legal experts helped us to finalize all the important elements. How does this ethics committee work? The ethics committee is composed of experts from different backgrounds appointed by the Minister of Health and the Minister of Telecom. The role of the committee is actually to look at the output of the task force, the flow of telecom data, and to highlight possible ethical conflicts in this area. At the time when we could draw certain conclusions from these data, it may not always be appropriate, for example because there are ethical aspects that could be stigmatising, for example. On the advice of the ethics committee, we have not started certain data flows several times, because they were ethically opposed. The ethics committee met weekly via videoconferencing. The content and conclusions of those meetings shall be documented in writing and forwarded to me and to the Minister of Health. What did these data streams do? Firstly, there has been a study on the general evolution of mobility. There was a weekly report to the National Security Council and to the crisis cell. The analysis took place at national and regional level to assess the underlying differences. Secondly, have those telecom data been re-used for predictive modelling, so in workflow 2? Those data are used for epidemiological models. If you want to fine tune the model of Niel Hens, you must of course know how people move in society. They are used to feed both long-term and short-term scenarios. The distribution models, which are a huge challenge for epidemiologists, have also used some of these telecom data. There is also the identification of certain focus areas. That input shall be communicated to the Risk Management Group, to the GEES and to the core. You have no doubt read that during the Easter weekend there was a remarkable increase in mobility on the coast. Well, the different entities I was talking about just now have been briefed on that. These figures can thus be taken into account in further decisions. What we are going to do now is to stop these projects one by one, but continue to use the data to do further predictive modelling. I'll tell you more about that later. Here you can see the different data streams that have been used. It is important to mention that the three telecom operators already have a system to anonymize the data. Procedures have been in place for years and these same procedures have been used for the anonymization and aggregation of these data. Before the task force or any other person or entity had access to these data, we first made the anonymization and aggregation of these data. This is important because these procedures exist and are already validated by the Data Protection Authority. We have not changed anything, we have not used any additional data, nor have we used the data in a way other than that for which they had already been used for years by the telecom operators themselves. At that time, these anonymous and aggregated data are sent to the task force. An analysis takes place at that time and the results are disseminated to the public. You've seen the various articles appear. For the record, the telecom streaming includes Dalberg Data Analytics. Before any entity or third party has seen data, it is about anonymous data. Very strict governance rules have been drawn up. A DPIA has also been prepared and validated by the Data Protection Authority. We have appointed these people through a negotiated procedure without prior notice, given the urgency that was already present at the time to work with data scientists and also in view of the fact that they could present a number of credentials to do so. It requires, of course, a great deal of specialisation in order to carry out those technical analyses and to provide the relevant authorities with correct information. The fees were agreed on the basis of the number of days worked per person who participated in the project. From the outset, the scope and duration of the contract were limited to what is strictly necessary in the current crisis situation. That is why we are now completing this project towards déconfinement. Cooperation will therefore cease. She walks a little further with a view to a good transfer to the regular services. Why are we working with them? They have already developed a number of things, for example within the framework of the UN Capital Development Fund and also with the Belgian government there have been collaborations, including in Uganda. They have a platform in which they build tools that allow policy makers to better underpin decisions made and assess the impact of decisions taken. Anonymised and aggregated mobile telephony data have always been used as a basis for making those policy choices. It's just that technology we needed to do that in these circumstances. That is why cooperation with them has begun in this way. The following has emerged from the various analyses. As you have probably already seen, we have seen a very sharp drop in mobility, in people's behaviour towards people from the beginning of the confinement. We have also seen that since the Easter weekend this is slowly rising again. Now that the economy is beginning to resume, we will see that this will continue to increase. We have also been very transparent in the communication about this. We used those updates to communicate to the citizens. I mentioned the Easter weekend and the coast. We have also made it clear that we saw that at the beginning of the definition people were very strict about the measures imposed. For example, 80% of the time was spent in their own municipality. We have also communicated on a number of data models. You can see a tweet by Marius Gilbert, who could take the modellings he could do based on those anonymized and aggregated telecom data into predicting the movement of the curve. Another path is that of modernization. It became more important when the pandemic really started by doing a real fine tuning of the different models. See here the different models used at the beginning of the crisis: a short-term reference model, a long-term reference model. There are also different scenario developers. There is a PWC model, created by independent researchers, which has been used in different governments as input for the different models. Note also the different models, covering the whole, to model the spread of the pandemic! Furthermore, some specific models are also used, such as the one developed to carry out an analysis of the needs for protective equipment or medicines, not to mention the one relating to mobility in Belgium. We have seen that different models exist. All the protagonists sat around the table to examine their usefulness, which still have to be fine-tuned and the different experiences that can be combined to arrive at a reference model, especially for the short term. For the time being, it is important to anticipate the arrival of a second wave, to detect it as quickly as possible and to identify the places from which a further spread of the virus would emanate. All systems tend to standardize into a system that favours short-term predictions of virus spread. The models have also played a role in the dashboard to see how the different stages of the déconfinement can proceed. Some of these are known: the number of hospitalizations, the ICU capacity, the availability of tests and the availability of protective equipment. The modellings are used to see if the parameters are green in order to move to a next phase of the exit strategy. Another aspect that was important to the task force was project prioritization and governance. We have been very transparent. We have set up a website that you see here. The various projects that sent us an e-mail were published. We gave some validation and some support for some tools, some help apps such as online consultation platforms giving hygiene advice, the sorting application for example, as well as others. We applied to them various criteria that were necessary during the crisis, a sound scientific basis, compliance with privacy, the fact that they were likely to reduce the workload for the health care system. We also identified applications that could be integrated into existing systems. We have helped the various tools to grow, to get on the market, to get in touch with certain other developers or organizations that may represent a benefit for these applications. That is what we have done in a fairly transparent way. There are also somewhat broader projects, such as CT-scan. You may have heard that doctors are taking CT-scans from VOCID-19 patients to identify the disease as quickly as possible. Researchers are in the process of validating this protocol but are also developing an artificial intelligence protocol to automate this type of diagnosis. We helped them by bringing them in contact with researchers across Europe to form an organisation, in order to work on a much wider scale than that of Belgium. We have therefore really helped the various tools to find their place in this ecosystem and also to be validated, for example with regard to privacy, or with respect to certain other important elements, before an application can be placed on the market. But we have not decided, nor have we pushed certain tools into the market. Specifically in the field of contact tracing, we have placed many of the questions that came to us in different categories. Several consortia and project leaders have contacted us. Some projects are based on bluetooth, others on bluetooth and GPS, and others on GPS. Contact tracing is an important element in the exit strategy. Let me remind you of the history of the contact investigation. At the start of the crisis, the regions did a few days of contact with the first patients, but the very rapid increase in the curve made it impossible to keep up after a few days. At the time the Data Against Corona Task Force was launched, we were available to receive various proposals. A week later, we consulted the regions on how they wished to implement the contact research. We gave a very clear message there that the manual contact research with the call centres, as it has now been prepared, will be a very large and important part of the contact research, even during the exit strategy. In my opinion, it has always been the case that technology can play a role in this, but first of all, the call centre and the manual contact research are the backbone of the contact research. Some of you have quoted the uptake of such an app. So you know that 95, 85% or 80% of the contact research will have to be done in a different way than in a technological way. I am convinced that technology can play a supporting role. I also noticed that the enthusiasm for using an application a few weeks ago was much greater than after the discussions with the various consortia, because some of the technological limitations and privacy issues have emerged. On 10 April 2020, we had discussions with the competent administrations and the regions on what concrete plans were already in place on the contact investigation. That was repeated the next day, to see exactly what was on the table and how one would like us to support it, for example on data flows and others. On 17 April 2020, an agreement was drawn up between the regions on the launch of contact research and on 19 April an inter-federal inter-kabinette working group was already convened to actually discuss a number of aspects of contact research, such as who is doing what and what we can do at federal level to support? The division of roles has been very clear from the beginning. The regions are responsible for contact research. We have always said that we were willing to see how we can provide support, for example in the field of technology and call centres. Data streams sometimes run over federal platforms. Can we open it and make it available to the regions to make use of it to organise contact research properly? That's why we started the Sciensano database. If the regions ask, and they have already done so, we offer a legal framework for contact research through the applications. To that end, an inter-federal committee had been set up. It is therefore not correct to say that the federal level is responsible or co-ordinator. It is an inter-federal committee in which all entities work together and make available their own logistics, skills and knowledge of different systems to optimize the search for contacts within the framework of VOCID-19. The coordinator of this inter-federal committee is Emmanuel André. The committee also includes representatives and heads of cabinet of the various ministers concerned (Wouter Beke, Christie Morreale, Alain Maron and Antonios Antoniadis) as well as experts from the federal level, the eHealth platform and Sciensano, Christian Léonard and Frank Robben. In addition, a group of experts, drawn from different administrations or from other task forces such as the GEES, supports the discussions. The task of that working group is very clear and transparent. A website has been set up on which the Communities and the Regions evaluate cooperation on the basis of frequently asked questions in various fields. It concerns the commitment of contact follow-up processes, the development of common strips and procedures, the common call centre platform, the already launched e-learning modules for the call center staff and for the field agents, the monitoring of indicators, the optimisation of procedures during the start-up phase this week, we are effectively in that start-up phase, and a common communication strategy, because the trust of the population is of course very important. Those elements are listed and can also be found on that website, which has been online for several days now. Following the previous slide, the next slide will discuss the organisation of the call centers, the employees, the regulations, the information on collections, the communication material, the design of triage centers and the decisions of the interministerial committee on the contact centers. All this information is intended for the Communities and the Regions, as they are in the lead to start the contact investigation. Contact research is an important element of the exit strategy. For the call centres, the regions are competent. We can support, including with technology. For example, a few days ago we launched a public invitation to tender, already completed and awarded, in order to have technology available from 4 May to start the call centres. At the request of the regions, we also looked at how to provide a privacy framework for an application. Now there are two things that I would like to give you. Firstly, in order to get the call centres operational, we need technology, which we have ensured through a federal public tender, and also a flow of data, which sometimes runs on federal data. We have ensured that a database has been established at Sciensano in order to start the contact investigation. Of course, this could only happen when we were given an insight into the way in which the regions wish to organise their contact research and what dates they wish to include in it. That has a certain degree of urgency. In order for the regions to be able to start the contact investigation this week, we have created a KB power of attorney who was tested last weekend by the nuclear cabinet with the ten party chairmen. I myself, in consultation with the nuclear cabinet and the ten party chairmen, agreed that there would be a legislative proposal, as the power of attorney KB would be of a temporary nature. The period during which the WB power of attorney is in force should be the subject of a transparent debate in Parliament on the framework of the central database. By means of a legislative proposal, everything can be properly anchored. Secondly, the applications. That's a different stream. There is, of course, the parliamentary resolution which has been debated in Parliament for a number of weeks now and which, I hope, can be resolved today. It has always been the intention to end with a legislative proposal after the resolution has been adopted. Since at that time we did not have any clarity about the urgency of that application, we started with the creation of a power of attorney KB. That wasn't used in the end. We have asked for advice from the Data Protection Authority. No use has been made of this because we see that the regions want to start a manual contact study and will only then proceed to the use or non-use of an application. It is, of course, important that it follows that path and that we can continue in this way and ensure that these two elements are effectively brought to a successful conclusion. In the first instance, that contact examination should be able to start effectively on Monday. And so now it's being scaled up further. Secondly, it should be ensured that the framework is available when there is a need to use an application that can support the contact investigation through the call centres. I would like to talk briefly about the Sciensano database. The legal basis for data flows in the context of manual contact research is thus done. We have now published it with urgency on 4 May. No advice was requested from the Council of State. However, it was necessary to be able to start. I know that this is a very sensitive subject, and I am well aware of it. That is why I am in favour of having that debate in full transparency and openness through a legislative proposal, with an opinion from the Council of State, with a new opinion from the Data Protection Authority, so that Parliament can fully accept its responsibility. The Royal Decree ensures that the flows between doctors, hospitals, labs and contact centres can be optimal. The Royal Decree clearly states the purposes of the processing, in the context of the COOVID epidemic. It also lists very clearly the categories of data used and the sources of data used. The identity of the controllers shall also be included as well as the retention periods, the categories of recipients and the purposes for which data may be disclosed. That is a very clear royal decision, in which all those elements, on which questions were also asked, are very clearly listed. A number of issues remain to be resolved, but this is done through the Information Security Committee. This also makes sense, because the committee concerned has the authority to do so. For the sake of clarity, we have also asked for an opinion from the Data Protection Authority. The text of the Royal Decree, as finally published, has also been adapted to the opinion of the Data Protection Authority. As for the second stream, the applications, I think the best way to work with a bill is once the resolution is completed. It is a question of the different parties in the different regional authorities to do so. I have also seen that many parties have signed the resolution and are now working hard to bring the resolution to a successful conclusion, so it seems logical that the follow-up is also a legislative proposal on applications. What framework can I provide based on the experience of conversations with various providers, regions and other actors? It is my deep conviction that we must build it on the basis of the European recommendations. We have already had a lot of discussions on this with experts and with the regions and the input of the GEES has been requested. There are a number of criteria and elements that seem essential to me. Firstly, it must be done on a voluntary basis. Secondly, anyone who uses or does not use the app should not be discriminated against or harmed. It must also be a temporary system, which means that the data must be deleted when the crisis is over. I think it is best to base it on bluetooth and work with a decentralised system: the DP3T system seems to me to be the most appropriate. The software used must be open-source and be able to be viewed in all transparency. There should be absolutely no identification of contact persons or the retention of location data and the processing of personal data should be kept to a minimum. It will be up to the experts to determine what personal data are needed in the context of the contact investigation to prevent the spread of the virus, but it cannot and cannot be more than that. This approach is also in line with Parliament's resolution. The opinion of the GBA also makes it very clear that the effectiveness, necessity and proportionality will have to be sufficiently substantiated to be able to use such an application. I therefore call for this to be included, not only in the resolution but also afterwards in the legislative proposal, in a broad parliamentary debate in order to find a good solution under what conditions we would apply that application and technology. Again, we are doing everything we can to get the classic contact research going because we know that there is a relatively low take-up, but at the same time it is also logical from my point of view that I say that technology could play a supporting function. So I am not against it, but I absolutely believe that we should first set up a call centre and the rest of the contact research because that will really be the backbone of how the contact research, together with testing and other matters, will have to proceed. I will conclude and then try to answer some specific questions from Members punctually. Firstly, with the dates of the task force, we have contributed in a good way to mapping the spread of the virus. The data have also played a role in communicating to the general public about, for example, mobility behaviour. In this way, they have contributed to explaining and making explicit the measures as well as asking people to follow them up. For the future, the data can still play a role in modelling the further course of the pandemic. It is important to be able to detect quickly if a second wave starts, in order to be able to estimate the course very quickly. The data will also continue to support a number of policy decisions, e.g. a number of criteria established during the exit strategy, in order to move to a next phase. In this respect, the data will also play an important role in greening the parameters. I remain convinced that, given the sensitivity and confidence needed to use certain data, there is an absolute need for a transparent debate in Parliament through legislative proposals, specifically a legislative proposal on the database and a legislative proposal on the application. The constant throughout the period has always been for me that there has to be a privacy-first-data usage. We have done everything in our power to do so and we have also managed to work within the framework of the GDPR and to have experts around the table who have advised us on the way things could be done, both in legal and ethical terms and in terms of data. We have remained perfectly within the lines of what privacy expects us to do. Mr President, I will, if I may, deal with a number of punctual issues from questions which have not yet been addressed during the presentation. There was the question of necessity. I think I responded during the presentation. The use of data is clearly necessary. As regards the second aspect of the application, I believe that the first is the need to have a strategy on manual contact with the regions. That's the choice we made. There, technology can play a role in adding a perhaps more efficient way of working. There were also questions about keeping the data. For data that makes the link between someone who has been tested positive, and someone who is followed by contact research, the link is broken after about 20 days. At that time, both periods of self-insulation have ended. Right after that, those data are just deleted. In pseudonymized or anonymized form, those data are stored longer for the epidemiological examination of Sciensano. That's a classic way to frame scientific research, something that happens differently. The same rules apply to this. As far as social pressure is concerned, the matter is very clear to me. With regard to the criteria I have indicated, I have stated that people who do not use the app should not suffer any disadvantage. Of course, we must have a very strong framework. I am fully aware that we are working with very sensitive data here, and it is absolutely necessary to provide a very strong framework through the legislative proposals for the application and also the central database, if it is needed in the longer term. I hope that it will not be necessary and that the pandemic will be over sooner, but if it is, a good framework through a legislative proposal is absolutely necessary. Both the manual tracing and the app is highly invasive and privacy sensitive. So I'm just making a distinction as to how they should be treated. In both cases, we must be very careful when dealing with data and access to it. We have indeed been involved in the powers of attorney, but I am fully open to debate this in greater depth in Parliament on the basis of the two legislative proposals. The proposal for a resolution is a first step in the right direction towards a proper framework. When it comes to policy-supporting work, we are primarily talking about epidemiological research, to map out the dissemination and draw conclusions from it. For scientific research, however, we always work with pseudonymized or anonymized data. For example, it is possible to draw conclusions without compromising privacy. Mrs Jiroflée, the questions you have asked are in fact all for the regions. I suggest that your colleagues in the Flemish Parliament ask those questions to Mr Beke. The regional authorities are in charge of selecting the call centre agents and I have indeed insisted on starting on 4 May. This is what is being done and people were trained last week. The agreement with the GEES is that they start this week to scale up around 11 May. Progress has been made in the regions: public tenders have now been awarded and the crew and crew of the call centres are getting underway. So at the federal level there is a technological platform, there is also a script that we have worked out together, there is the power of attorney-KB, which provides the legal basis, and there is an answer for a number of other technical aspects that Frank Robben has been able to put forward. We have also had a lot of consultation with the general practitioners in the last two weeks. The GP now has access to the results of the tests in the medical file. That still has to be fine tuned, but the system itself is on the verge of doing so. I have already said that there is a bill, not a bill. I also explained how communication with the Regions had taken place. I mentioned the various suppliers who contacted us for this application. The agreement of the Regions has been reached. We had an interdepartmental committee a few weeks ago. It is now within the Inter-federal Committee that this agreement will be explicit and operationalized. I also indicated that the President of the Privacy Authority was a member of the Task Force. It is the Knowledge Centre that gives an opinion on the various bills and bills. On the other hand, people who worked with us in the Task Force did not participate in the deliberations of the Privacy Authority, in order to avoid a conflict of interest. The various applications have been developed by companies. We responded that this was not the federal government's task, but we encouraged them and told them that there were key elements and that if they met the various criteria, they could propose this type of application to societies, organizations, people in health care, for example. In any case, at the federal level, we have never made any choice of application. I have answered all of Mrs Gijbel's questions, as have the questions about the timeline, when the various assignments have started. How many days before a positive test will the call center go back? That will be up to two weeks because we know that there are people who are asymptomatic and yet carry the virus. It will depend on when people have been in contact with each other to know how far one should go back. It varies from person to person. It's also mentioned in the scripts. As far as applications with a centralised or decentralised database are concerned, much has been discussed at European level. Some countries, including France, opt for a fully centralized system with a database. Other countries have also made this choice, but have changed their minds and are working with a decentralized system. There is therefore a certain variety in Europe. I have indicated that a decentralised system is preferable but with vigilance for data protection. Whatever the choice, we always work with very sensitive data. The use of this application is supported for everything that is contact tracing manual. There has been much discussion with virologists and epidemiologists who work for GEES (...) but we must first start with call centres and the search for contacts. As far as application is concerned, 60% needs to be used, which is not achieved in some countries, especially when it is installed on a voluntary basis – which is essential for me. For this reason, priority must be given to setting up the contact tracing manual via call centres, whose methodology is known and applied by the Regions. We will then see how we can add technology, but this demand must come from the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answers to the many questions. Now it's time for the replies. I see a new colleague has arrived. I'll give you a little more time for your reply, because you haven't been able to ask your question. I'll follow the order of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u19	Mr Minister, I thank you for the long presentation that has been made with the various information that has been given to us and that has been requested for a long time. Finally, we have information on a series of questions that have been asked so far, including the compositions of the groups, the task forces, the questions of data anonymization, the processes, the operators with which you work. I admit that a lot of information has just been provided to us through the many PowerPoints. I'll take the time to examine them and re-examine them to clear the whole thing. For us, the position remains the same, namely, that we must first define the need for this application, which seems to be the case for the government, in view of the processes already very advanced. In addition, a whole range of guarantees must be provided, namely that this must be through a law and therefore a bill, be submitted to a wide range of advisory bodies, offer guarantees of transparency, volunteerism, etc. For this reason, I would like to inform you that we have tabled a motion of recommendation. She asked the government for a whole range of guarantees on the process currently under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u20	The President shall: In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Khalil Aouasti and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Khalil Aouasti and the response of the Minister for Digital Agenda, Telecommunications and Post Office, responsible for administrative simplification, the fight against social fraud, the protection of privacy and the North Sea, - Whereas the protection of privacy is a fundamental right; - Whereas there can be no interference in the exercise of this right by the public authorities unless there is a need and no alternative to achieve the legitimate objectives of a democratic society, in particular the preservation of public health; - Whereas such interference can only be justified if it is provided for by law; - Whereas location and health data are particularly sensitive data which require considerable caution when processed; - Whereas any processing of automated personal data poses a real, intentional or unintentional risk of breach of privacy; - Considering the initiatives developed at regional level to limit the spread; - Whereas the development of a mobile application to combat the pandemic of VOCID-19 can only be envisaged if full transparency governs its development process, the composition of the technical groups implementing it, the definition of the source code, the use of data, the processes of data retention and destruction; - Whereas the greatest transparency in the implementation of the application is a necessary condition for obtaining the confidence necessary for the accession of the population; - Whereas the use of a mobile application to combat the VOCID-19 pandemic can only be done on a strictly voluntary basis, that trust is therefore a necessary prerequisite; asks the government - if it considers it necessary to use a mobile monitoring application to combat the VOCID-19 pandemic, justify this use in the light of clear and defined objectives in a comprehensive public health policy aimed at combating the spread of VOCID-19 coronavirus among the population; - in such a case, to submit to the House a bill which would regulate this implementation, in particular by ensuring that the use of the application is voluntary or temporary and can only be used for purposes other than the fight against the pandemic of VOCID-19, that the application, developed on the basis of open and public standards, complies with the principle of minimisation of the data, in particular with regard to the type of data processed and their duration of storage; - to ensure data protection commensurate with the risk of intrusion by a private or State entity with substantial human and financial resources; be more transparent in initiatives that deal with digital data generated by citizens, even when they are agglomerated or anonymised; - to set up an independent monitoring committee responsible for the ongoing evaluation of the implementation of the legislation; - respect the independence of the supervisory bodies and their members, in particular those under the control of the House." A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Khalil Aouasti and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Khalil Aouasti and the reply of the Minister for Digital Agenda, Telecommunications and Post, responsible for Administrative simplification, Combating Social Fraud, Privacy and the North Sea, - whereas the protection of privacy is a fundamental right; - whereas the public authorities may only interfere in the exercise of that right where necessary and there is no alternative to achieving the legitimate objectives of a democratic society, in particular the protection of public health; - whereas such interference is justified only if it is laid down by law; - considering that tracking, tracing and health data are particularly sensitive data which should be handled with great care; - having regard to the fact that any form of automated data processing presents a real risk of breach of privacy, whether intensive or not; - having regard to the initiatives taken at regional level to limit the spread of the virus, - whereas the development of a mobile app to combat the COVID-19 pandemic can only be considered if there is total transparency in the development process, the composition of the technical groups responsible for implementing the app, the definition of the source code, the use, storage and destruction of the data; - whereas full transparency in the introduction of the app is a prerequisite for the public's confidence in its use; - whereas the use of a mobile app to combat the COVID-19 pandemic is only possible on a strictly voluntary basis and therefore trust is a necessary condition; asks the government - whether it considers it necessary to use a mobile tracking and tracing app to combat the COVID-19 pandemic, to justify its use in the light of clear and defined objectives which are part of a global public health policy aimed at preventing the spread of COOVID-19 among the population; - in that case, submit a draft law to the Chamber setting out the framework for the introduction of that app, in particular by ensuring that the app is used on a voluntary basis, is temporary and should not be used for purposes other than the fight against the COOVID-19 pandemic, that the app developed by open and public standards complies with the principle that the data collected is kept to a minimum, in particular as regards the type of data processed and the duration of storage; - to ensure data protection tailored to the risk of hacking by a private or public entity with significant human and financial resources, - to demonstrate the greatest possible transparency in the initiatives which process digital data generated by citizens, even if they are aggregated or anonymised; - establish an independent follow-up committee responsible for the ongoing review of the application of legislation; - respect the independence of the control bodies and their members, in particular those who depend on the Chamber." A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Kathleen Verhelst. A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Kathleen Verhelst. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the long speech. It is good that there has been transparency, which many colleagues have been asking for for for some time. It is good that we now know who is in the task force and that the names have been announced. It is now clear that the people who have to give advice may be in the same organisations as the people who are in the task force, but they are not the same people. I hope that this will be shared with the people as much as possible, because I have had a lot of questions about this in recent days. The fact that we can now use telecom data is also a good thing, both now and for future scientific research. It is also important that this does not touch privacy at all. I welcome the explanation we have been given on this. I would like to say a few words about Sciensano's power of attorney. I understand everything has to go fast. We don't have much time to waste. It is important that the rules can be rolled out as soon as possible. Minister, I was wondering if you think there is still a need for an additional legal framework, regardless of the power of attorney-KB, to ensure that citizens' privacy data is protected? Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I believe that your vision of the application, voluntarily and with DP3T system, is clear and is in line with the vision of many parties in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u22	Thank you very much, Minister, for your explanations and the answers to the questions. The contact tracing system will help to prevent the spread of the virus as much as possible. I am pleased to hear that you also attach importance to the confidentiality of the information and that an ethics committee is looking into it. A pandemic must not be a reason to grab our privacy. It is good that you note that people who will use the app will not suffer any disadvantages. I am also pleased to hear that after the pandemic all data will be deleted. The manual contact tracing will be the most important, I understand from the presentation. The technology needs to support the contact tracing. I hope that action will also be taken to achieve the 60% participation target needed to make the app workable. That is why we will support the resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u23	Minister, I agree with the words of appreciation of my colleagues for the detailed explanation you have given us. The only question I have not been given an answer to was my question about policy-supporting research. In your presentation, you mentioned scientific, statistical and/or policy-supporting research. It seems to be a detail, but it is about the reasons why we would pass on data to third parties. I can't stop thinking that's important. For the rest, I have heard you say a lot of important things, including the need for a legal framework and 'privacy first'. You confirmed that Parliament should take the lead in this. We shall set a good example of this when we discuss the resolution that I tabled together with a number of colleagues. I look forward to the further course.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u24	Minister, like my colleagues, I would like to thank you for your long, detailed and important answer, although I regret that these explanations were not given to us earlier a few weeks ago. I share the importance of the beacons to which you referred. For us, they are fundamental. They are also included in the text that we will be discussing in the wake of the questions on the agenda of our committee. All these measures are in the right direction. You answered questions about the Regions. However, unless I am mistaken, you have not answered my question about the double cap of the President of the Data Protection Authority, Mr Stevens, who is also a member of the Data & Technology Against Corona Task Force. Legislation will soon be analysed. One cannot be both president of a supervisory authority or, in any case, of analysis as is the case with the Data Protection Authority, and member of the task force that develops the measures. Do you intend to intervene to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u25	Minister, as far as the central database is concerned, I understand that it is still coming to Parliament as a legislative proposal. This deserves due attention, indeed, in order to ensure that this is safely delimited, both in terms of quantity and type of data, and in terms of the time at which these data will be stored. In my opinion, it should also be a point of attention that it is not just clinical labs that are used to working with sensitive data, but that other labs are included in the testing. So we have to take that into account as well. After all, we must not forget to think about the people who have to work on it. The GPs were a little overwhelmed this week. On the one hand they had to start up their normal operation again, on the other hand they were expected to be able to test fully. But before that, they didn't have enough test material. The e-forms were not always available. They also didn't know exactly how the data flow from testing to Sciensano and the labs were put together. That is why I would ask you to communicate in a timely and clear manner and to take into account the over-questioned doctors who will eventually have to work on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u26	I am happy to give the floor to Mr Verduyckt. He couldn't keep his interplay, but I suggest he can replicate the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am also a member of the next committee where legislative proposals are currently being discussed. It's hard sometimes. I would like to thank the Minister for the information and transparency. Over the last few days and weeks, I could have gathered a lot of information, including by asking a written question, but we have now received a good overview here. As far as telecom data is concerned, I do not share the opinion of all my fellow Members. They indeed give some trends, which may be useful and useful, but I think they are still too general to take concrete action. That is absolutely not a plea for a great deal of noise to be removed and even more individual. Personally, I wonder if this place is really worth the kale. I could say the same about the app. I think the Minister is on the right track. In my opinion, the choices that are being made are good choices: decentralisation, bluetooth and so on. I wonder if the technology is really on the verge of getting us something. But we are mainly here to draw up the framework. In that respect, we are choosing the right path. I'm just wondering if that's gonna work. At the beginning of the crisis, I thought there'd definitely be an app. The Minister made this very clear. Afterwards, it was about manual tracing one day at a time. It's a strange turn in this crisis and I haven't heard the Minister say anything about it. The app, telecom data and the manual investigation are all good and useful attempts to ensure that we get the corona crisis under control. However, the most essential thing remains confidence in the population and the mentality of the population. One of Mrs De Block's first opinions was "stay in your quarters." In those countries where this advice has been well followed since the first day - it is in the Belgian nature to go to work if he is ill - the results are much better today. Much can be worked out, but if the population does not behave like it, it remains difficult. It is a good thing that the Federal Parliament ensures that the framework is in order and that it is discussed in this committee. We haven't had much time, and the situation is what she is. There's nothing anyone can do about that. Hence this discussion. In the future, ANPR cameras, drones and the like will still have to be discussed. Today that is not very urgent, but in this corona crisis a few more things have happened about our privacy. We will certainly have another word on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answers and for this fairly detailed presentation that we are going to analyze. I would like to raise a few points. I did not understand your position on the need for this application in the fight against coronavirus. Is it necessary or not, despite all the risks it poses to privacy? I had submitted to you a review of the DP3T protocol, which was made by a professor at the École polytechnique fédérale de Lausanne. The latter questions the effectiveness of DP3T and says that this protocol is not secure at all. What do you think? You answered me about the conflict of interest, but I admit I'm not convinced. Even if they are not the same people, the Data Protection Authority is responsible for the control and the fact that its president is part of the task force raises questions. You said there was no difference between digital and physical tracing, if I understood correctly. Yet it seems completely different to me! Digital tracing works with an application that a majority of people should have, which would allow them to follow all these people. While with human tracing, only people who may have been in contact with a case of VOCID-19 will be followed. I will study your answer carefully. In your opinion, is this application necessary or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u29	Minister, thank you. As far as the big beacons are concerned, we agree. However, the predictive model for telecom data was carried out without the consent of interested parties. So I warn you about certain uses. In addition, upstream, there is no health-related efficacy in detecting carrier contacts. I am always surprised by the way manual tracing is considered to be the panacea devoid of any intrusive character, on the contrary of its digital version. However, to achieve a significant rate, it requires at least five investigators per positive person. In Belgium, however, we are far from it. On the other hand, the database is relatively intrusive, as it is based on pseudonymization, not anonymization. In addition, it covers different aspects. We'll have to discuss it again. Personally, I believe that we will not be able to do without the digital component to complete the range of measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u30	Minister, I thank you for your very interesting explanations, which show that you have done an important job in trying to best control the spread of VOCID-19. In the documents you submitted to us, I see that the list of applications includes two that are limited to Bluetooth, while the others include GPS. The European Commission's toolbox does not recommend geolocation. I support your move to introduce a bill on enforcement, so that Parliament is very much involved in this matter. This is all the more important because we will never be able to prohibit the appearance of private applications. You say you wait for the Regions to request an application. However, if they do not, I would regret it, because it is an essential and complementary tool. In this case, other instruments will be proposed. Hence the need for a legal framework. What better way to do this than a bill? Given the database, this topic is also very sensitive. The hearings have confirmed that this system is more invasive than digital contact tracing, provided, of course, that this application respects all of the European Commission's toolbox on privacy. Therefore, it is essential that the royal decree, which you have had to take as a matter of urgency – we can understand it – and containing possible additions, be also transformed into a bill in Parliament. In addition, I have learned during the course of the committee that there are difficulties in accessing the software of the Sciensano data bank for the time being. Before you access it, apparently, a problem would arise with the identification "itsme" or maybe something else. A doctor was able to access it after two hours of attempts. This is certainly a difficulty due to the launch of the system. But I thought it was important to report it right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u31	Mrs Gilson, I would like to respond directly to the "itsme" identification. Today, the FPS Finances sent the beastingaanslagen, the tax returns. The system was overloaded and thus there was an impact on all applications that use "itsme". It's not related to our system. This is a general problem currently being resolved at the BOSA level. Mr Mahdi, I did not quite understand your question about the additional legal framework. I have proposed a proper framework for both the central database and the application by means of two legislative proposals, following parliamentary debate and advice from the Council of State and the GBA. I think that these two, if done properly, should suffice. I thought it was important to give a full overview today of what happened in the task force and how, so that people know clearly what different steps have been taken. When it comes to policy support, a question from Mrs Somers, it's always about pseudonymized data. On the basis of these pseudonymised data, analyses are made that are policy-supporting. Initially, the epidemiologists of the Risk Assessment Group, who advise the Risk Management Group, were given an insight into this. The core +10 has requested that this be extended to other epidemiologists in the framework of open data, so that other analyses can also be carried out. However, there should be prior authorisation from the Information Security Committee. That is the procedure that we have worked out to give more than just the people of the RAG access to the pseudonymized data, but there must always be an authorisation before such data can be used. That guarantees that the data will not be misused. Mr Vanden Burre, there is no double cap since for drafts and legislative proposals requiring an opinion from the Data Protection Authority, this opinion is given by the Knowledge Centre. The President of the Authority is part of the Task Force but does not take part in the deliberations of the Knowledge Centre if the Authority is involved in the draft or proposed law. In this way, conflicts of interest are avoided. It will be necessary to see at the time of the deregulation how to reorganise the cooperation between the Task Force and the Authority. Both a central database and an application have a privacy impact. That's the point I was trying to make. Is one worse or less bad than the other? Both are sensitive data, both are data collection. Different considerations can be made. My point is that we both need to frame very well. We must legally anchor them very well so that the data can be used correctly, with privacy at the forefront. It seems necessary to me to have them both. After all, the data streams are needed to carry out the contact research. On the other hand, if we can use technology, why not? I'm not against it. That is why I believe that these two bills must be dealt with as quickly as possible in Parliament, especially since the special royal decree already ends on 4 June 2020. Parliament's work is to ensure that there is some speed in the debates. It seems to me that I have covered all the elements in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u32	We can proceed to the supplementary, non-corona-related questions on our agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u33	Mr President, you said at the beginning of the sitting that there was a possibility of getting the answers briefly by e-mail, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u34	You, Minister, are prepared to provide the answers in writing, as I have heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u35	Mr President, that is not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u36	Members who so wish may receive the answers in writing. That will happen very soon, I presume. If a member simply asks for the conversion into a written question, we can take the Minister's commitment with us. In this way we can easily go through this afternoon's agenda. However, I leave the choice to everyone. A questioner may also refer to the text of his or her question and then only listen to the answer and reply. You can do that, too, to make better progress. Members are free to choose the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u37	Minister, on March 31, Proximus launched an extensive campaign to announce the arrival of 5G in a series of communes in our country. This announcement was made without any real consultation with the municipalities concerned being carried out and surprising both the mayors and local agents and the citizens. They felt somehow betrayed by this announcement and denounced a lack of democracy. Decisions have been made and they may have enormous consequences for health, but also for daily life and privacy without us being invited to participate in the debate, without us having all the arguments in our hands. Proximus has tried to impose 5G in the communes and I am glad that many of them have reacted. I hope that, with your support, we will be able to start a conciliation procedure. Minister, do you agree to ask Proximus to organise a public consultation with the municipalities and citizens? Public consultation on incomprehensible IBPT texts is not enough! Do you agree to hold consultations with scientists involved in the impact of 5G on public health and privacy? Do you agree to require Proximus to cover white areas with fibre optics? In some municipalities, teleworking is almost impossible! This new technology is a choice of society, but many citizens do not want to go in that direction. Minister, do you agree to question Proximus' policy on the deployment of 5G in some municipalities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u38	Minister, Proximus has announced the deployment of a light form of 5G in a series of communes in Wallonia and Flanders without any consultation. There is a great deal of concern on the ground, and our fellow citizens are asking fully justified questions about the potential health impact. I think a public debate is necessary. Five municipalities officially complained: Louvain-la-Neuve, Namur, Waterloo, Arlon and Tournai. As a result of these complaints, Proximus turned back. I think that this is a positive point with a view to starting a dialogue, which should take place throughout the country. Does Proximus intend to bring together all the mayors of the country? Ms. Leroy used to organize such meetings as long as she was CEO of the company. It would be interesting to do it again. With regard to the public investigation by the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT), which ran from 24 March to 21 April last, in full confinement, it does not seem to us that the conditions were adequate for an investigation into the introduction of temporary licences for 5G. From a democratic and citizen's point of view, we must be able to repeat this public inquiry and ignore the one that has just been completed. Indeed, whatever our opinion on the substance, the conditions for a peaceful citizen's debate were not met. We ask that this investigation be postponed after confinement, as soon as possible I hope and probably by the end of the year. What do you think?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u39	Mr President, Minister, I have a few questions about Proximus' roll-out of 5G. I understand it's a 5G Ligth version. There is a lot of discussion going on about whether 5G is a dangerous technology that increases radiation, which can make people sick. In this context, I also have a follow-up question on the agenda for arson towers. Minister, I think it is important that you repeat here that all the studies we have discussed in Parliament indicate that there is no evidence that radiation from telephones, 4G or 5G, poses any danger to public health. I would also like to hear you say that 4G or 5G does not make such a big difference in terms of radiation for the population. 5G is ultimately the technology of the future. In our neighbour Holland 5G has already been rolled out in half of the country and by summer it will be all over the country. From a French-speaking point of view, however, questions arise in our country with regard to 5G technology. How do you explain that in French-speaking Belgium there is more opposition against 5G, whereas in Flanders there is much less opposition? Will you take the necessary steps for an information campaign to inform the good citizens on the other side of the language border and reassure them that it will not be such a rush? After all, we must ensure that we do not miss that technological train, because that manifest error can be very bad for our future and our prosperity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I answer the various questions, let me recall the context for Proximus' recent launch of 5G and the environmental and health aspects. The decision to deploy 5G was made on March 31st. Proximus had long planned to launch its 5G network. Preparations for this launch were therefore in progress for a long time. Proximus used existing antennas and spectrum allocated to it in a previous auction to deploy any mobile technology (2, 3, 4 and 5G). For the choice of the first cities where 5G would be launched, Proximus has notably based itself on the list of Walloon and Flemish cities where a large demand for mobile data exists today. This choice was therefore based on the existing use by customers. As far as the environmental and health impact is concerned, Proximus has not changed anything in terms of emission power and complies with the environmental standards currently in force in each Region, which is attested by the responsible regional authorities. Therefore, there are no additional emissions as part of the initial 5G or 5G "light" launch. Proximus fully recognizes and assumes its societal responsibility of applying a principle of prudence when protecting its clients. The health aspects of radio frequencies and in particular those used in mobile telephony are the subject of various scientific studies. For more than 30 years, multiple studies have been carried out. The evolution of these studies is constantly monitored. Based on these studies, no link has been shown between wave emission and any health hazard, provided that these emissions remain within the limits recommended by the World Health Organization. The standards in the different regions of our country are much stricter than those recommended by the WHO. Proximus has always acted and continues to act in accordance with the standards in force in Belgium. In neighbouring countries, such as Germany, France or the Netherlands, standards are aligned with international standards. In Belgium, deployment is also always carried out in accordance with these standards. On its proximus.com site, the operator made available additional information on the impact of the waves on health and the environment. It also provides links to information made available by the Regions and WHO on scientific research in this field. As far as the consultations with the various authorities are concerned, Proximus is well aware that some mayors, aldermen and citizens are asking themselves questions about 5G, which is totally legitimate. Proximus has made every effort to respond. Proximus has thus put in place answers to the questions on its website and has contacted the municipalities in order to provide them with additional information enabling them to respond to their citizens. At the same time, some Walloon municipalities have asked Proximus to suspend the activation of 5G technology on their territory in order to allow a period of information to their population about 5G. In order to be able to conduct these discussions in a calm manner, Proximus agreed to temporarily suspend its deployment in these different communes. An updated coverage map of the municipalities concerned will be published shortly on the proximus.be website. This temporary suspension will allow Proximus to exchange constructively with the Walloon Region and the municipalities on what 5G can bring, and also share reassuring information about the health and environment of this new technology. In addition, 5G is really a solution for white areas. That being said, you understand that technological change must continue for the benefit of Belgian citizens and businesses. Proximus continues its intention of eventually having the best 5G network in Belgium. The deployment shall be carried out in accordance with the standards in force in each of the Regions. In-depth discussions will be held with the authorities concerned. It is quite clear to me that 5G is an important technological advance, which can not only improve the lives of citizens but also support our businesses. We in Belgium must also continue with this technology. This must, of course, be done in the way agreed and within existing standards at international level. In addition, we must continue to move forward with 5G and ensure that this technology can be deployed in Belgium, at the service of our citizens and our businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u41	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his reply and I am pleased to hear that there is this suspension, unfortunately temporary, to allow Proximus to inform the municipalities and the citizens. Many citizens do not want to go in that direction, and I believe that everyone's opinion must be taken into account. Progress may also be not to overemphasize 5G at home. I urge that the views of citizens and local authorities be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u42	Minister, I take it from your answer that you understand these legitimate questions posed by local agents, mayors, aldermen and also our fellow citizens. This is the heart of the issue. It is to have a broad debate and not under the conditions of the debate for the public inquiry of the IBPT that took place in full confinement. Dialogue is fundamental in this sensitive issue. Let's have this dialogue and encourage Proximus to have it. This could clarify a whole series of very legitimate questions, as you yourself said, that our fellow citizens are asking themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u43	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It is good that you repeat what has been said many times, namely that 5G is not the bearable devil, that we will not all lose our hair or fall down on the spot. I understand that some in the Chamber, although they know of that fact, would prefer to remain disadvantaged. I am very sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u44	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Depraetere's 55005064C is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55005635C, 55005639C and 55005644C by Mr Freilich are also converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u45	Mr President, Minister, I have a brief question about facial recognition technology. We have already talked about the Corona app, but there are other technologies, which are mentioned abroad, to use in the fight against corona but also in the fight against crime and other matters. In the United States, for example, there is currently the use of facial recognition in the fight against COVID-19, whether or not combined with the use of heat meters. At European level, there is now also a debate on the dossier. A legislative framework is being developed to temporarily ban both artificial intelligence and facial recognition. That is why I have the following question. Minister, what is your position? What position will Belgium take at European level on facial recognition? What is your view on the use of such technology in the fight against COVID-19? Finally, and most importantly for me, are you in favour of a moratorium on the use of facial recognition?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u46	Mr Mahdi, I have already indicated in a number of other parliamentary questions that I want to deal with the problem very carefully. Facial recognition is about very specific biometrics, with which many problems may arise. At European level, a preparatory white paper has indeed advocated the lifting of a moratorium on this for five years, I think. I was fond of that proposal, in order to take time, to be able to quietly weigh up a number of pros and cons against each other and see how the framework could happen, if it could happen, in order to use facial technology in a good way. I was, however, inclined to accept the proposal that was originally on the table to impose a moratorium in order to bring the debate at European level and in the national parliaments to the fore on the way in which we wish to deal with this facial recognition. Unfortunately, the proposal in the final version of the white paper has not been taken into account. There is no longer a moratorium on the use of such biometric identification cameras. However, in Belgium, the current legislation does not allow the use of cameras for facial recognition, either in the private sector or by the government. That is the framework we have today. If we want to change that framework, we must have a very strong social and parliamentary debate to see what is going on and what the advantages and disadvantages may be, including with the Data Protection Authority, which is within Parliament's competence. We must therefore involve the citizens in the dossier. It is a very complex problem, which needs to be looked at very carefully before any consideration can be given to using the technology in public space.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-06-55-commissie-ic171x.u47	We have come to the end of the questioning sessions and the topical debate and, after a short break, we can take up the second part of our agenda, which is a motion for a resolution.
