ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u1	Colleagues, I welcome our guests today. I propose that we start immediately with the introductory remarks by Mr Kormúth, Mr Dejongh and Mrs Van Calster and leave room for the committee members to ask the necessary questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u2	Mr President, thank you for your fine words, but I will speak in French. Mr. Chair, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for this opportunity to address your committee. In this context, allow me to appreciate the interest of the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Justice in the tragic case of the Slovak citizen Jozef Chovanec. We are also grateful for the expressions of condolences, solidarity and sympathy we have received from many Belgian citizens, both in Dutch and French. We highly appreciate them and passed them on to Mr. Chovanec's family. The objective of my speech is a brief summary of the measures taken by the Slovak Republic immediately after the death of Mr Chovanec. Since the beginning, our authorities have assessed this event as a death under suspicious circumstances. The Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs of Bratislava, as well as the Slovak Embassy in Brussels, have since the beginning tried to use all the means available to them under the Vienna Conventions on Diplomatic and Consular Relations. In accordance with customary diplomatic practice in Belgium, our official partner - privileged communication channel - is the Federal Public Service (FPS) Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, which we immediately informed about the case. Already on February 26, 2018, our former Ambassador, accompanied by the Consul, was received by the Director of the Protocol of the FPS Foreign Affairs. He informed her of the tragic event and explained the circumstances of the case. He also referred to the criminal complaint already filed by Mr. Chovanec's wife and family. At the same time, he provided the Director of the Protocol with a note verbale requesting a prompt and thorough investigation of the matter. The representative of the FPS Foreign Affairs promised to immediately inform the political direction of the Ministry and the Consular Section of the event and position of the Slovak side. It also expressed the view that, in view of the involvement of the airport police, an investigation would also be conducted by Committee P as a police supervisory body. On 28 February 2018, our ministry in Bratislava convened the Belgian ambassador accredited to the Slovak Republic and based in Vienna. The Director of the Consular Department told him that we considered the case to be particularly serious, not only from the consular point of view, but also because of the potential political connotations if it appeared that the intervention of the Belgian security forces was related to the death. We called for a prompt, thorough and impartial investigation, in particular on the basis of the complaint against X filed by Mr. Chovanec's wife. From the beginning, the Slovak side respected the family's desire not to make the case public. Subsequently, on 7 March 2018, the Slovak Ambassador visited, on his own initiative, the Internal FPS, where he was received by the diplomatic adviser of the Ministry as well as by another official. The two representatives also promised an in-depth investigation into the case of Jozef Chovanec's death. The Ambassador's meeting with the Federal Minister of the Interior took place on 30 May 2018 to highlight the importance of the case also to a member of the federal government. The Ambassador stressed that the Slovak side expected a response from the Belgian authorities and requested that the competent Belgian authorities investigate the case responsibly and as soon as possible. As a result, the Embassy, by diplomatic note dated 13 June 2018, requested the FPS Foreign Affairs to provide the new information on the investigation. The Embassy also requested assistance from Jozef Chovanec's wife in order to obtain the medical report and additional documentation on the case. On July 2, 2018, the Ambassador was once again received at his request from the Bilateral Affairs Directorate of the FPS Foreign Affairs. It reiterated its request to the Belgian side for maximum cooperation in this case. In particular, he pointed out that the family had not yet been officially informed of the circumstances of Mr. Chovanec's death and had not received a medical report. It was assured that the case was a priority for the Belgian side. The Embassy again requested information on the state of the investigation from the FPS Foreign Affairs in a diplomatic note dated 13 March 2019. It stated that, according to its information, there had been no significant progress in the investigation. On May 6, 2019, the Consul also met with the Deputy Federal Prosecutor, as even after a year and three months, there was no major development in the investigation. By note verbale dated 21 November 2019, the Embassy again requested a proper investigation and its completion within a reasonable time. In its reply to this communication, the SPF Foreign Affairs provided, on 22 January 2020, information on the alleged closure of the investigation and its transfer to the Public Prosecutor's Office for further prosecution. As we can see, the Belgian partners have assured us since February 2018 that Mr Chovanec's case would be a priority for the competent authorities, that he would receive all the necessary attention and that the case would be thoroughly investigated without delay. We always receive these assurances from the Belgian side, but without more concrete results. It should be pointed out that the media coverage of the police cell's video recording last month upset public opinion and caused intense emotions and indignation in Slovakia. The fact that the case was investigated without results for more than two and a half years has raised a particular concern for Slovak citizens, civil society and political elites. The published images triggered a series of measures at the diplomatic and political levels. On 2 September 2020, the Slovak Parliament adopted a resolution condemning the disproportionate intervention of law enforcement officials at Charleroi airport. Parliament has turned not only to the House of Representatives and the Government of the Kingdom of Belgium but also to the European Parliament and the Commissioner for Justice of the European Commission, asking them to pay full attention to this matter. The resolution was forwarded to the Speaker of the House of Representatives on 10 September. The Minister for Foreign and European Affairs of the Slovak Republic reconvened the Belgian Ambassador in Bratislava on 3 September 2020 stressing that we expected speed and transparency in the procedure. Subsequently, on 9 September 2020, the Government of the Slovak Republic also adopted a resolution condemning disproportionate police intervention and associated extremist demonstrations. For her part, the President of the Slovak Republic also made a proposal to include a forensic expert in the investigation team, which the Belgian authorities have in the meantime accepted. Slovak political representation and the Slovak citizen expect the whole truth about the case to be made as soon as possible. Our main interest was and remains the interest of Mr. Chovanec's family, that is, a thorough investigation, the unveiling of truth and justice. It must be borne in mind that the way in which the case will be resolved will have an impact on the perception of the rule of law in Europe. It is important that citizens' confidence in the rule of law be preserved. In conclusion, I would like to stress that Slovakia and Belgium traditionally have excellent bilateral relations. We do not want Mr Chovanec's case to have a negative impact on these relations. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you again for your interest in the Jozef Chovanec case and for everything that your committee and the House of Representatives are doing. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u3	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ambassador, ladies and gentlemen, in this hearing today I represent the Directorate-General for Bilateral Affairs of the Foreign Affairs Office. I do so with the agreement of the Foreign Minister, Mr Philippe Goffin. At the Directorate-General for Bilateral Affairs, Slovak concerns were raised on 2 July 2018, when Ambassador Vallo spoke about this during his farewell visit. It is a diplomatic habit for an ambassador, when the end of his mission comes near, to make farewell visits to his main interlocutors. This includes the Directorate-General for Bilateral Affairs. During this farewell visit, the bilateral relations were widely examined. In that context, the Ambassador also mentioned what the Ambassador said earlier...... that Mr Chovanec's widow wanted more information on the investigation. He also drew our attention to the mediatisation of this death in Slovakia. You may be surprised that I will start with such a late date, 2 July 2018, but to briefly outline the framework of the contacts between foreign missions and the Foreign Affairs Office: a foreign embassy in Brussels has several contact points at the Foreign Affairs Office. Who is addressed depends on the subject. A first gateway is the protocol service, to which the ambassador referred. A second is the Directorate-General for Bilateral Affairs. We are looking mainly at the political aspect of bilateral relations. In addition, depending on the files, there are of course other contact points. With regard to its legitimate questions about the fate of the Slovak national, Mr Jozef Chovanec, the Slovak Embassy first turned to the Protocol Service in writing, by verbal note, and in person, as the Ambassador said, from 26 February 2018. The protocol chief immediately understood the gravity of the case. A person died and a family asking a lot of questions. Of course, compassion was expressed as well. We must also look at what else is possible. Then the protocol service contacted the Consular Affairs department, in particular the C1 department. That's the service that provides assistance. Two actions have then been taken. The verbal note of the Slovak Embassy was delivered to the P Committee. In addition, the federal police liaison officer at the FPS Foreign Office was also informed. This colleague is on my right and will be taking the floor shortly. Furthermore, our ambassador to Vienna, who is responsible for Slovakia, was summoned by the Slovak Director-General for Consular Affairs in Bratislava. He went there on 28 February 2018. As the Ambassador pointed out, there was once again emphasis on the importance of a rapid and complete investigation into this matter. Following the contact of 2 July 2018 at the Directorate-General for Bilateral Affairs and the Slovak Embassy, there have been for some time no contacts specifically about this case. This does not mean, of course, that other FOD services were no longer in contact with the embassy, in order to follow up on the matter. The ambassador has given a good overview of these contacts. Those contacts have continued. There has been a rapid acceleration after images of the arrest on 18-19 August 2020 appeared in the public domain. The Chovanec case thus became a very important case in Slovakia, both in public opinion and in political circles, which was also the case in our own country. Our embassy reported on 21 August 2020 about the impact of the images in Slovakia. Our ambassador then, out of concern for the maintenance of our bilateral relations, also taking into account the convocation that had already been there in 2018, proposed to Bratislava to proactively explain the ongoing procedures in Belgium. He was authorised and instructed by the Minister on 22 August 2020. This contact took place on 25 August 2020. Our ambassador was welcomed by Prime Minister Matovic. Our ambassador had also received a letter from Prime Minister Wilmès. The Slovak Prime Minister asked again and, like his colleagues, rightly so, that the matter should be thoroughly investigated and that the truth should come to light. On 31 August 2020 another conversation took place at the political level. There was a phone call between Minister Goffin and his homologist in Slovakia, Minister Korcok. The latter Minister announced his government's resolution. The resolution was issued on 9 September 2020. She asked that the text would be delivered to the Justice and Police Department. He also expressed his confidence that the Belgian competent authorities would pay due attention to it. Two resolutions were passed in Slovakia, in particular a parliamentary resolution on 2 September 2020 and a government resolution on 9 September 2020. On 9 September, I signed a transfer notice addressed to President-in-Office Patrick Dewael. This transfer message forwarded a letter from his Slovak homologist, Mr Boris Kollár. That letter referred to the Chovanec case and to the Parliamentary resolution of 2 September. We had received this letter in a scanned version of the Slovak embassy. Then, on 15 September last, I received Ambassador Kormúth after he had to carry out a demarche to our FOD at the highest possible level on instructions from his authorities. He then handed me a verbal note from his embassy, as well as a text from the verbal note from the Slovak Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including a translation. The day before, he had already discussed this with the competent director. This text calls once again for all information on the investigation to be made available and to ensure that such cases can no longer take place in the future. Finally, last Monday, a final contact took place between Minister Goffin and Minister Korcok in the margins of the Foreign Affairs Council. I did not go into the details of the contacts that colleagues from the Directorate-General for Consular Affairs had. The ambassador has already referred to that. I do believe that we have kept in touch with the Slovak authorities at various levels of administration in Brussels, our embassy in Vienna and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that we have passed on the information that could be made available and which we ourselves have received through other channels. We have also continued to work to maintain good bilateral relations. I will be available for your questions later, ladies and gentlemen of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u4	Mr President, Mr Ambassador, ladies and gentlemen of the committee, I would like to begin by introducing myself so that you understand what I really am doing. I'm the first Chief Superintendent Marc Dejongh, federal police liaison officer to the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. I was asked to appear before this committee today to explain a number of aspects in the coverage of the death of Mr Jozef Chovanec. I've considered the information from the beginning to be serious. After all, a man died. My eviction includes four parts. What's my role? What are my duties? Where was I at that time? How did I guarantee the continuity of my position? What exactly did I receive at that time? What did I do with it and why? My role and my tasks are based on a job description. Firstly, I am a liaison officer with the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, in other words I establish links between people and I facilitate the first contacts. If an opinion is requested, this often involves finding the right correspondent. Once this contact has been made, I do not intervene anymore, nor am I usually informed about the handling of the file. I am not a mandatory contact point, nor for the Foreign Office, for the services of the President, the DGs, the Executive Boards, etc., nor for the integrated police, the federal police or the areas of the local police. I'm not a mandatory contact point. They may establish the necessary contacts autonomously within the framework of their duties. Secondly, I am responsible for the preparation, formulation and follow-up of police projects abroad, mostly in collaboration with Enabel, the Belgian Development Agency. I am accountable for this to the director of the CGI, the Executive Board of International Police Cooperation with the Federal Police. The experts who come from the federal police and the local police are prepared and supervised by me. The tasks I carry out in this context in Africa are an important part of my tasks. Where was I at that time? In this context, it is important to look at how it has been dealt with further. I was in Burkina Faso from Wednesday 21 February to Saturday 3 March 2018. I was back in Belgium on March 4th. It was a formulation mission for a community-policing project carried out by Enabel as part of the Development Cooperation portfolio. Such assignments are usually very intense, require thorough preparation and on-the-spot consultation of both local and Belgian and international partners. By the end of the contract, a project plan proposal must then be on the table with a broad consensus. On Tuesday 27 February, the date that will interest us further, we were at night in Tenkodogo. By "we," I mean the person responsible for the formulation of Enabel and myself as an expert of the Belgian police. We arrived there after a trip to the border with Togo with successive interviews and work visits to local authorities and police stations. Upon arrival at the hotel, after a final discussion and shortly after a first power cut, I got a connection to the hotel's Wi-Fi. Let me outline the context in which I received the message. Basically, everyone knew I was on a mission. I had taken measures to ensure the continuity of my position at the FOD, as I was able to count on about half an hour of internet a day via the hotel's Wi-Fi, possibly without electricity and/or with power interruptions. You understand that in that context it was not so easy to do something with messages. Besides, I work alone. I don't have any employees. Both my mailboxes, both police.belgium.eu and diplobel.be, were provided with an autoreply message, so everyone knew I was on assignment. A backup was provided via the mailbox of CGI. My cell phone number was mentioned for emergencies. My professional mailboxes were downloaded to offline and the most likely partners, both with the FOD and with the police, were personally notified that I could not respond in the normal way until March 4th. I come to my final point, namely the responses to the reports received. On Tuesday 27 February we finished our last interview of the day at 6.35 p.m. on the role of the armed group d'autodéfense. I wanted to check if there was a signal at the time, because the day before it had not been possible to consult certified e-mails. I hadn't had access to my account at police.belgium since the start of the assignment. The message, with the subject "Maintenance of Slovak Ambassador...................................................................................................................... It immediately triggered my attention. I immediately indicated to Enabel's colleague that we should postpone the briefing of the day. The verbal note in the annex, on which Mr Ambassador referred earlier and which was also mentioned in Mrs Van Calster's speech, was dated 26 February. I could see that, but I couldn't open it. I can mention that the successive e-mails I received in that message were very explicit. The content spoke for itself. In that message I read that the incident occurred on Friday 23 February at Charleroi Airport and that it eventually led to the death of Mr Chovanec on 27 February, in the hospital where he was hospitalized. From the information provided by the Slovak ambassador, I refer to the interview he had on 27 February through the protocol service, I found that all procedures had been initiated. The family had filed a complaint with Charleroi police with the help of the embassy. The airport authorities and the Charleroi police were contacted by the protocol. Charleroi's parquet was contacted by protocol. In the meantime, the Foreign Affairs Protocol Service had sent the message to the Directorate C1, which Mrs Van Calster referred to earlier, via Mr Jozef Bockaert, Deputy Director General of Consular Affairs. That Executive Board C1 was responsible for the further follow-up, in this case the notification of the P Committee and the further contacts with the public prosecutor. As a matter of urgency, the protocol service had a first contact to examine the situation, and then it was followed up further by the Executive Board C1, which depends on the Director-General for Consular Affairs. I sent the e-mail directly to the protocol officer at the Commissioner-General's level. He was also in contact with the press service and with the spokesperson regarding what the Deputy Director General Consular Affairs indicated as a point of interest, namely press coverage for filming during the arrest. So I could already read this in the e-mail that preceded it, of the protocol, in which this aspect was mentioned. My concern was to get the message intact and as soon as possible to a correspondent, who could still do something with it at that time. After all, I feared that the Internet connection would fail again. People in Belgium knew I was in Burkina Faso. And indeed, just after that, there was a power cut, which left me out of the Internet. I would like to conclude by saying that, in the context of my position at the Foreign Affairs Office, I still had little to do at that time. I've been thinking for a long time and trying to reposition myself in the context of that time. There was nothing in that report that raised the slightest doubt and I had full confidence in the functioning of the institutions. What more can we do at that time if the Charleroi parish is taken and the P Committee has been informed and the initial facts have already taken place five days ago? I'd like to close with that. I am at the disposal of the committee for any questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u5	Thank you, Mr Dejongh, for your statement. I am happy to give the floor to the members of the committee to ask the necessary questions. As usual, we start with the largest fraction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u6	Mr President, first of all, thank you to all the speakers. What struck me most is the ambassador's testimony and how many times there has been contact for two and a half years. Mrs Van Calster, from when is it customary for a case to flow to Cabinets when several contacts are made on a particular matter and remain at the level of the FPS? Does that happen all the time? What are the arrangements on that? Mr Dejongh, I understand very well that you were absent and had other assignments. Apparently, you'd reported your absence everywhere. I do not understand that no one has verified with you after your return that everything has arrived correctly and that all the necessary measures have been taken. Then why are things sent to protocol chiefs and not to those responsible immediately? You're sending something to the protocol chief of the federal police. So what's his job at the time? Isn't it easier to immediately inform the person responsible, the CG, when it comes to a serious matter, as you say? Why are we still working through protocol services? What is the added value of sending this only to a protocol chief and what is his mission at that time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u7	Mr President, I would like to thank the speakers for their comments. On behalf of Ecolo-Groen, I would like to express our condolences to the Slovak colleagues who are here, and I would like to express my wish that the matter can be resolved thoroughly once and for all. In this context, there are a lot of questions to ask. Ambassador, you yourself have been ambassador to Belgium since November 2018. How often has a Slovak ambassador or have you met the Belgian Minister of the Interior in your office in those few years? Is this a regular thing? This is an important question for Parliament in order to assess the importance of the discussion that took place at the time with Mr Jambon, the then Minister for the Interior. Secondly, I also heard from your account that it was the ambassador himself who went to see Minister Jambon at the time to draw his attention to this matter. Is that the custom, is that common or does it only happen in exceptional cases? What is the protocol on this? You also pointed out the following: "In order to underline the importance of the case, an in-depth investigation without delay..." Those were the requests that were put on the table. What answer, what agreements did your predecessor and his services have reached at the time? Any promises made? Was there an exchange of information? I would also like to know if you think that Belgium has met the demand for, for example, an in-depth investigation before the images were released. I certainly remember from your account that not only after the arrest of Jozef Chovanec and his subsequent death in 2018, and not only because of the images that came out in September, but also in between, for example in 2019, there was still a certain urge to refer to the case. Do you think that Belgium filled the case sufficiently in the period before the images came out? What do you expect from Belgium, now that the images have come out? I remember you saying that the follow-up will have an impact on the perception of the rule of law in Belgium and in Europe. What is your expectation, your demand on behalf of Slovakia, that this should happen? Finally, could you elaborate on the decision? I heard from your explanation that a Slovak physician would be added to the Belgian research team. For me, that's a new thing. Is that a decision in the meantime? If so, when did this happen and do you have any idea how this cooperation will take place? Will a medical practitioner effectively attend the research activities in Belgium, or will he follow up on the files? How exactly is that going to happen? Thank you for your answers. Thank you, Mrs Van Calster, for your explanation. I have some additional questions. Did the Foreign Office, at certain times, urge the Home Office to take certain measures? If so, which one? What was the State Department's assessment? Was this case considered a serious matter? Again, how common is it that Foreign Affairs is being asked to deal with these matters? What was the response of the Home Office when you alerted them to this file? How many times has there been contact with the State Department on this case? Thank you, Mr Dejongh, for your explanation. My questions to you are similar to those of Mr Ingels. What services have you been officially in contact with as liaison officer? What services did you ask about this? What was the situation in Slovakia like? Have you produced reports at certain times? If so, what was its purpose? Then who did these reports end up with? How was the information flux in that area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u8	Mr President, Mr Ambassador, first of all, on behalf of my group, I would like once again to express our condolences and to ask you to relay them to the Chovanec family and to the whole Slovak people. Thank you for your presence today and for your clarification. They're important to us. We have received the letter you sent to the Speaker of the House, which conveys to us the resolution voted by the Parliament of your country. I would like to assure you that, for my political group and, of course, for all members of this House, this is an extremely serious and extremely important issue. We too want justice to be done in this case. We hope that justice will be done independently, that it will go to the bottom of things, that it will establish responsibilities and, if there is responsibility, that it will punish those responsible. But we also want, as legislators, to be an institution which is intended to control the acts of the executive independent of the judicial record, to establish political and operational responsibilities, to highlight the malfunctions, the shortcomings and, we must dare the word, the "faults" which might have been committed during the tragic night which cost Mr Chovanec his life. We want to put in place the regulatory and disciplinary framework that can ensure that no one in the country's law enforcement can think that such a heinous act can be committed with impunity. We also pay attention to the medical dimension of the file and its supervision to ensure that every person in distress receives the necessary care and care. We have already put a series of questions to the various ministers so that the authorities of our country clearly describe certain actions and behaviour as unacceptable. You mentioned it, too. Your Parliament is wondering about the presence of the far right in our police forces. It is an icy question, it is clear, but we have also asked ourselves. We put it down. Our intelligence services are attentive to the emergence and surveillance of extreme right-wing groups in our country. We asked the appropriate minister to also worry about this issue within our police force. Mr Ambassador, your Eminence, could you send us the list of communications and exchanges with Belgium? You have detailed the retroplannings, the retroacts, but we would also like to obtain in more detail the content of these exchanges, with whom and at what time, in the context of this dossier? That is a question that we will also ask Mrs Van Calster because it is important. It is important to have the retroacts and contents of these retroacts. Mrs Van Calster, thank you for the clarity of the information. You described the time line by starting in July 2020. You explained why. Returns and retroacts are obviously in line with frequent exchanges with Slovakia. These frequent exchanges clearly demonstrated the importance of this serious and tragic fact, its importance for Slovakia, but also for us. Have you made any commitments to Slovakia? What actions have been put forward in relation to intra-Belgian relations? You have spoken about the frequent bilateral relations with Slovakia, but what actions have been put forward in intra-Belgian relations and especially in the service of the interior? Could you inform us about the contacts and exchanges between your FPS and the other FPS, to the offices and to the ministers in charge? What were these contacts, what were they, and how often did they take place? What follow-up was made to these contacts once they were engaged? What returns have they made to you? Mr Dejongh, thank you also for your speech. I also come back to the questions asked by my colleagues. You have pointed out frequent contacts with Foreign Affairs: could you also tell us if you have had contact with the federal police? Did you have any contact with her that she had initiated? Any contacts you had initiated? Should this type of direct contact with the federal police take place? Or are things naturally organized so that these contacts are set up when they take place, as you mentioned earlier with the FPS Foreign Affairs? That's for the first few questions. Thank you for the clarification that you will not fail to provide.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u9	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Ambassador Kormùth for his presence in this committee. I really weigh my words by saying that. I would like to address the Ambassador of Slovakia to tell him, if he does not know, that last week we met in our committee with the College of Prosecutors General on this sad issue of Mr Chovanec's death. The Prosecutors General have reminded us of the principles underlying an ongoing criminal investigation. These are general principles that you certainly also know in your country, as in any rule of law. They include the presumption of innocence. They told us that as a result of the images in the media, the police officers, who have intervened in this police station and who appear in it, have been found guilty almost immediately even though an investigation is still under way and even though all the elements, whether they are in charge or in defence, are not yet known. The Attorneys General have come to remind us of this. They have also come to tell us that an investigation is currently being conducted by an independent, impartial investigating judge, who we know is aware of all the images, and not only of some scattered sequences. It's a vital element, Mr. Ambassador. The indictment chamber will soon determine whether or not the investigation is properly conducted. I say "next" because, according to my information, a hearing at the request of the civil party is scheduled for 28 September next on this subject. Mr Ambassador, I would also like to say that various investigations which are to be dissociated from the ongoing criminal investigation have been initiated since the distribution of a sequence of images by the civil party. I am thinking of the investigation carried out by the Supreme Council of Justice and that of Committee P concerning which I, among other things, as members of the accompanying committee, received a number of confidential information from the Chairman of Committee P. Not to mention an in-house investigation conducted by the police. Mr Ambassador, if I may recall these various factual elements, it is to say that I sincerely hope, from the bottom of my heart, that they will reassure you and reassure all the parliamentarians who voted for this resolution, which the President of the Parliament of the Slovak Republic has sent us, as to the importance that justice and the Belgian authorities attach to this matter. I will allow myself, Mr. Ambassador, to ask you one question. You started your presentation with a lot of nuances and a lot of modesty. However, each of us has understood well that very many contacts, repeatedly, have been made between your services, perhaps yourself, the consular services and the Belgian authorities through the FPS Foreign Affairs or the Internal FPS. I am talking about many contacts, repeated contacts, and obviously contacts that have not always been successful – that is the least we can say. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Ambassador, whether today, as we speak, you have received information that you consider sufficient. If this is not the case, I would like to know what information you would still like to receive, taking into account the sacrosanct secrecy of the investigation in Belgium. I now turn to Mrs Van Calster. Ma'am, what tools and levers do you have to collect information on the follow-up to a particular case? Is it permissible for you to question the Public Prosecutor's Office and question the P Committee? In general, when a matter of this gravity occurs – and I hope it is rare – what is the return of the services that you have the competence to question? Mr. Dejongh, you have described to us the initiatives you have taken in the course of your duties. You concluded your speech by stating that, very sincerely, and after long thought, you did not see what further gesture you could have made. Of course I believe you. So, have you taken these initiatives under a standard procedure or have you applied a methodology to follow when an incident of such gravity occurs? In other words, do you follow a walking order or do you adapt to situations that arise to you? I thank you in advance for the answers you can give us, and I thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the death of Joseph Chovanec has touched us all. It is therefore necessary for this committee to continue digging, in the positive sense, not only to designate those responsible but also, above all, to prevent such matters from happening in the future. I am therefore pleased that the first operational measures have been taken. For example, arrestees suffering from excited delirium syndrome will no longer be locked up in a cell, but preferably with an ambulance and under the supervision of a doctor will be taken to a hospital. Also, the officer of the administrative police must always come to the scene. It is good that clear guidelines are given. However, all this does not alter the fact that questions remain unanswered regarding Mr Chovanec's death and how everything went down, its resolution. There is no doubt that the cabinet of the then Minister of the Interior was aware of this. We have already talked about this, it has also been published in the press. The cabinet was informed by Foreign Affairs, which was addressed by the distressed Slovak diplomats. The Slovak ambassador also visited the cabinet twice, where he had direct contact with the minister. I therefore have a few specific questions. Mr Slovakia's Ambassador, can you comment on the contacts made by your predecessor? How many times have there been contacts? What was said during those contacts? What information has flowed from that? Are there any records of that? Were certain arrangements made by your predecessor and the cabinet of the then Minister of the Interior regarding the follow-up of the matter after the meeting, after the visit? Do you think those appointments were met? Did your predecessor or did you take any further steps after that if certain agreements had not been met? I also have a few questions for Mrs Van Calster. What contacts have there been at diplomatic level? Was this information delivered to the central administration in the appropriate manner? Has the central government provided this information to the cabinet of the then Minister of the Interior? Afterwards, did the cabinet keep the central administration further informed of the progress? Finally, I have a question for Mr Dejongh. After you have provided the information to the Commissioner-General, have you received further questions for information from the federal police and/or the cabinet and the administrative and technical secretariat of the then Minister of the Interior and/or the Cabinet or the Foreign Office? In other words, did you get any further questions after that? Thank you for answering these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u11	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u12	Mr Colebunders, the connection is very bad. I shall first give the floor to Mr Vandenput and then we will come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u13	Mr President, I hope that my predecessor's technical problems will be resolved quickly. I would also like to thank the speakers for their presence and their explanation. Many questions have already been asked, I am particularly curious about the answers. I will not repeat any questions that have already been asked, but I would like to ask three questions. Firstly, Mr Ambassador, your predecessor has been in contact with the cabinet of the then Minister for Security twice. Do you have feedback on this, are there reports of it and, above all, what were the expectations of your predecessor during and after those talks? After all, we believe that the contacts between your predecessor and the Minister for Security or his cabinet were crucial in the handling of this dramatic dossier. Can you say anything more about that? Mrs Van Calster, you have explained in detail the operation of your DG and what has happened. The focus was mainly on what happened in August and September, but in February and March 2018 have there been contacts between DG Bilateral Affairs and, for example, the Commissioner-General of the police, the Minister of Security's Office or the Security Office? What contacts were there then and were they aware of the information available to your services? Mr Dejongh, you have said something very important that has stuck. When you saw the titles of the e-mails in Burkina Faso, you said they were clear and very serious. You also said that all cases and procedures had been initiated to alert everyone. It is reassuring that the administrations are doing a very good job, but was the police in those e-mails, which you say were clear and very serious, anywhere in CC? If yes, who should have received this information from the police, either directly via the e-mails you have received, or through the procedures that had been initiated in order to receive this clear and very serious information? Could you give us a more detailed explanation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u14	Mr President, in the meantime, I have a better Internet connection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u15	We can hear you clearly, Mr Colebunders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u16	I apologise for the inconvenience, ladies and gentlemen, and thank Mrs Kitir for letting me speak. On behalf of our entire group, I would like to express my sincere condolences to Mrs Henrietta Chovancová and the Slovak people. We fully sympathise with Mrs Chovancová's struggle and we still have to fight to get justice. The last two and a half years must have really been hell for her, a lonely battle, looking for the truth. In Slovakia, more than a thousand kilometres away, she has tried to unravel the web of lies surrounding her husband's death. It's a disgrace. I understand the rage of Slovakia. It is legitimate and is fully shared by the Belgians. Unfortunately, the Chovanec case does not stand alone, but points to a deeper problem at the top of the state apparatus. We have just heard about the fear that extreme right-wing groups have entered our state apparatus and the police. That is why I have one clear message: we want this matter to be examined to the bottom. I have the following questions. Mrs Van Calster, on 22 September, Minister Goffin reported that he had a meeting with his Slovak homologist, Ivan Korcok, to discuss the Chovanec case. I quote the Foreign Minister: 'I have assured him of the will of our country to clarify this tragedy, in all transparency, with the Slovak authorities'. That's what got us thinking. Why did the Minister promise full transparency in this matter? There's nothing wrong with that in itself, but isn't that a normal case? Isn't that always supposed to happen? Has the Foreign Minister not been completely transparent in the past? Do we have any testimonies of that? Then why did the Minister promise transparency in this matter? Thank you, Mr Kormúth, for being here. I was hoping we could have met in different circumstances. You said you didn't bring the case out at the request of the family. Can we know what their arguments were for that? Was that because of fear of the authorities or was there another reason? The Slovak Parliament has adopted a resolution calling on the European Commission to investigate the Chovanec case. This text, which was tabled by the opposition, was supported by the entire Parliament. This vote shows the displeasure that is growing against the muscular arrest of a national of that country. In Slovakia, people say they do not have enough confidence in a Belgian investigation and wish for an intervention by the European Commission in this matter. Can you explain to us the accusations about the Home Office, which gave rise to this resolution? For do you think that Commissioner Didier Reynders, who has been appointed to ensure the proper conduct of the investigation in Belgium, is also involved in this case? Mr Dejongh, I listened very carefully to your speech. It's not entirely clear to me. As coordinator of the cell for international co-operation of the federal police, you have been an intermediary between Belgium and Slovakia. I have heard your testimony about your absence, but it is not clear whether you only have the information from Belgium to Slovakia or do you have the questions from Slovakia? If so, what information did you have to answer the various questions of Slovakia? Was that enough? What steps did you take when you returned after your absence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u17	Mr President, I would like to thank all the speakers for their comments on this sad and not so pleasant dossier. First, I would like to express my condolences to the family, but also to the entire Slovak community. You said, Mr Ambassador, that this was a real shock in Slovakia. I can assure you that this has been very shocking in our country too. We too are looking for the complete truth to ensure that this can no longer happen in the future. I have three more questions. I would like to base myself on the testimony of the Minister of the Interior, whom he made on this committee. We asked him: If an ambassador repeatedly asks for information about a person's death, then surely an alarm must have gone off? The Minister stated here that the second meeting with the Ambassador was not even of such a nature that he had to worry. The ambassador was quite satisfied with the meeting with the Minister of the Interior. The Chovanec file was just one of the files that were part of the conversation. Mr Ambassador, can you clarify that? In your account today, you have made it clear that you have considered the dossier serious enough from day one. From day 1 onwards you have constantly pointed out the seriousness of the matter and insisted that progress should be made. I was somewhat surprised when the Minister for the Interior stated here that there had been a discussion about it that was quite positive and that the dossier was only one point of many points that were dealt with during the interview. For the rest, a lot of other things had been discussed. Can you give me more explanation on that? Is that right or is that wrong? Do you have more information or not? Mrs Van Calster, I too would have liked to know the following. You immediately switched to 30 August 2020 and explained what contacts there were. What information is important to our committee? We particularly want to know what happened in 2018. What steps have been taken? Have there been any contacts that you think are important to know for our committee? I would have liked to have a further explanation of that. Thank you, Mr Dejongh, for your testimony and for the record. I'm left with two small questions. You state, on the one hand, that you were abroad, that your absence was known and that there was a bad reception. You note, on the other hand, that the content of the mail you received did cause an alarm to ring. Who sent you that e-mail? Who informed you of the situation at that time? Who are the other recipients in the e-mail? You have already explained the content of the mail somewhat. At the beginning of your speech, you pointed out that you are not a mandatory contact point. You will contact us and pass on the message. After that, it is no longer your responsibility to act or to be kept informed. Here's what I want to know. You were abroad. You'll normally be kept informed. You indicate that you have a bad contact. You do what is necessary, what needs to be done. Is there one person who informed you of the sequel to the story on your return or did you not receive any information about the file from that time on? Is that all you know about the file? Were those the only acts or have there been any contacts? Secondly, are there any points of improvement that this committee can take with it? Do you think you can play an important role in this, or not? In short, do you have any suggestion for this committee with a view to the future? After all, I assume, although you will know better than I do, that it does not happen so often that a liaison officer is informed of the death of a person? If I am wrong in that, I would like to hear from you whether it is frequent and how it is handled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u18	Mr Ambassador, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your presentations this afternoon that shed more light on this issue than - believe it, Mr Ambassador - ever since we became aware of certain elements, we have been trying to clarify. Our goal is also to ensure that this tragic event can never happen again. In particular, we feel that the core of this file is to be found in the transmission of information. There is no doubt, after the chronology you set out, that some authorities were informed of the serious nature of the case that had just occurred in Charleroi. While some have been able, at times, almost to minimize the various alarm signals you have given, it is now indisputable that you have repeatedly asked seriously and strongly for all the clarity and transparency required for the family. She was desperate to see that not only an internal police investigation, but also a judicial investigation, were delayed. In your chronology, you recalled a fact already mentioned by the former Minister of the Interior, who spoke, for his part, of a courtesy visit. You insisted on the seriousness of the case and on Slovakia's sincere willingness to clear it up. If it is possible for you and, provided we do not betray secret bilateral contacts, could you tell us whether - during your meetings with the cabinet and then with the minister - you have submitted a summary of the facts that seemed troubling to you? This aspect seems essential to me. Indeed, the minister's version differed somewhat, as it seemed to us that it was almost a courtesy visit, very brief, almost between two doors, to his office. I repeat this often: our aim is not to start designating one or the other. It is rather a matter of recalling that two and a half years after the facts, if no responsibility were to be established, it would be on our institutions – including the police – that the reproach would be cast. That's not acceptable. Indeed, if there were to be responsibilities, these should then have been established for two and a half years. I would like to thank you for clarifying this point because I believe it is a crucial aspect. Have any other direct contacts been established with a particular service in order to obtain more information? Did the information pass through the Home SPF and/or the Office of the Minister of the Interior each time? I think we really need further clarification in this regard, and I have no doubt that during these talks you stressed the seriousness of the situation experienced by Jozef Chovanec's family and by the Slovak people. Mrs Van Calster, you have little to say about the 2018 period and the alarm signals you are launching. In your capacity as representative of the FPS Foreign Affairs, to whom do you launch these signals, to which services do you turn as part of your contacts with Slovakia? Of course, contact is made at some point with the Minister of the Interior, but in view of Slovakia's multiple demands on the status and scope of the investigation, there must be procedures that define who you should look to as part of a file such as this one. Is this the federal police, the interior office or other ways you'll tell us? Mr Dejongh, like my colleague from the Open Vld, I was very impressed by the fact that, from the outset, the franc falls at your house, forgive me for the expression. You say that this is an important and serious situation, but in the elements of the file that we already have, it is precisely this fact that is lacking. No one seems to have realized that a judicial investigation was under way or that a State was trying to obtain information through its diplomatic representation or to highlight the seriousness of the situation. You, on the other hand, said from the outset that this was an important issue. As you said, this is not a mandatory procedure. For me and as you have said, the liaison officer is the transmission belt between the FPS Foreign Affairs and in your case, the FPS Interior and its administration, that is, the federal police. Are you taking an approach to this federal police force? Is that something that is part of a protocol? Do you or can you do so, depending on the information that comes to you and its seriousness? Or does the current judicial investigation make you think that it is managed and that you should not therefore take any further steps to feed the FPS Foreign Affairs which, in turn, is requested by the Slovak Embassy? You find it difficult, in the next few hours, to communicate a reaction since you have difficulty sending e-mails, etc. Is there, however, on your part, when you return from mission, an approach to the federal police? If so, to which direction of the federal police? This may be included in the protocol for the transmission of information. To what service do you have to provide this kind of information that you yourself feel is not commonplace? Indeed, I am pleased to hear that a protagonist confirms that it was not a "common" death. At the hearing of the Minister of the Interior, one did not come to say that a Slovak national had died at Charleroi airport as a result of a heart attack by pushing his suitcase. I caricature a little. You probably have the right reflex. At that time and in the following days, it is very complicated for you to be able to communicate or hand over the file to a colleague. How did this happen? I would like you to be able to shed some light on this point as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u19	Mr President, I would like to join the thanks of my colleagues to the various speakers, who have shown in their presentations how important the work we are doing to find the truth through these hearings is to establish the responsibilities of each and every one of them, and the malfunctions that have occurred. This work is important for the Chovanec family but also for your country, and to restore the confidence of citizens in our institutions, whether it be the political level, the police or the justice system. As far as the judiciary is concerned, you explained that in July 2018, five months after Mr. Chovanec's death, the family had still not been officially informed of the circumstances of his death, or even of the medical report. Does this imply that the family would have been otherwise informed of the report or that it would not have been at all? In all cases, this is quite disturbing, because in accordance with the Code of Criminal Investigation, article 44 of the Code, which deals with deaths whose cause is unknown or suspect, a forensic doctor had been appointed by the King's prosecutor. In other words, a report existed, or in any case had to exist, as early as February. It's very challenging. Can you tell us more about the association of a Slovak forensic expert in the judicial investigation that is being conducted in Belgium? I also wanted to go back to the resolution adopted in the Slovak Parliament on 2 February to request Belgium and the European Commission to investigate impartially as soon as possible the Chovanec case, but also the resolution which was adopted by the Slovak Government a week later. You say that these two resolutions were adopted because of a lack of confidence on the part of the Slovak authorities in the investigation under way in Belgium. Can you tell us what fuelled this lack of trust in particular? You mentioned the slowness of the procedure, which may have been justified on certain grounds, as explained to us by the College of Attorneys General last week. But there is also the public disclosure of the images and the lack of follow-up by Minister Jambon, in charge of security at that time, despite the contacts your predecessor had with him. Or is that all that prompted the Slovak authorities to adopt these resolutions? In other words, are these reasons the same in the head of Parliament as in the Slovak government? Have you, as Slovakia's ambassador to Belgium, played a role in the drafting of these resolutions or is this a purely parliamentary or governmental initiative at the Slovak level? I would like to address Mrs Van Calster, whom I thank for her presentation. You mentioned the repeated contacts that the SPF Foreign Affairs had with the Slovak Embassy as well as with the Prosecutor's Office in relation to the progress of this case. What specific information could be provided on this occasion with both the Slovak Embassy and the Charleroi Public Prosecutor's Office and when? Was there really a dialogue that took place on a regular basis? You also referred to the fact that the SPF Foreign Affairs provided information on 22 January 2020 concerning the alleged closure of the investigation and its transfer to the Public Prosecutor's Office for further prosecution. How was this information collected and transmitted? You also explained to us - it was confirmed at the previous hearings - that Belgium would have given assurances that the investigation would be conducted diligently and that the necessary attention would be given to this case. What assurances could have been given without interference in the current training? How, despite these assurances, could nothing really be done to speed up the procedure? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u20	I will use the same order for the answers of the guests and give the ambassador the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u21	First of all, let me thank all of the honourable deputies for their interesting questions. I would like to stress that the scope of competences of an embassy is of course very limited. According to the international Vienna Convention on Diplomatic and Consular Affairs, the embassy in itself cannot interfere in any way with investigations. So, as an embassy, for example, we are not in position of any of the documents related to these investigations. What the embassy can do, is to contact the competent authorities in the receiving country, to ask them for lighting. I think that it is clear from my statement that the embassy did all it could do in this regard. There were numerical contacts with the Belgian authorities concerning this case. Most of them took place in 2018, in the months immediately following the decease of Mr Chovanec. We can provide you with a list of these contacts. As far as correspondence goes between the embassy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I am not sure whether this is of a confidential nature. We would have to ask for permission from our headquarters. We also followed the wish of the family, especially Mr Chovanec's widow's, who has preferred to continue mainly with law attorneys and law representation. In that respect, the embassy recommended a good law firm here in Belgium, who has taken care of this affair. Regarding your more specific question concerning the meetings with the Ministry of the Interior, two meetings took place with my predecessor in 2018, and, of course, we followed the reassurances of the Ministry of the Interior that this investigation would have the most attention from the Belgian authorities. Of course, there are some reports of these meetings, but these are rather our internal reports, which we always send to our headquarters. No specific documentation was handed over to the other side during these meetings. Concerning the reports, again, they are rather internal, between the embassy and the Ministry. I would like to stress again that we fully respect the separation of powers in Belgium and the independence of the judiciary. So the role of the ambassador – or myself – or the embassy is not to interfere in any case with the investigations, which are still going on. In this regard, to answer the question, it was not the role of the embassy to ask the Slovak Parliament to adopt any resolution as they did. In my opinion, what triggered the attention of the wide public in Slovakia was this video, because it shed new light on this affair. During the preceding months, we were told that the most difficult reason explaining the death of Mr Chovanec was actually the injection, after which he sucked from a heart attack. Seeing these images, I felt I was returning eighty years in time. These extremist manifestations shouldn't happen in any case. In Slovakia, such extremist manifestations as a Nazi salute are criminal acts sent to the penalty court. People were sentenced in several cases for such manifestations. Again, we fully respect the assumption of innocence and we cannot make any judges in this affair. I would however like to remind you that there were several very similar cases in Belgium in the recent past that call to mind this particular case. The investigation of these cases led to trial and to the condemnation of some officers and other people. So far, we have full trust in the Belgian authorities. We think some involvement of Slovak experts in this investigation could be helpful. As you rightly pointed out, we asked for the inclusion of a forensic expert to the team. There are also some demands or proposals from the Slovak general prosecution, maybe to have a joined investigation with Belgian partners. In this regard organs like Eurojust in The Hague were appreciated to mediate. I think it is up to the Belgian authorities to decide whether it is possible or not, but we think it would be helpful to shed some light on this affair. Concerning your question about the European involvement, it was mainly the initiative of our members of the European Parliament. They came up with this proposal, they informed the president of the European Parliament and asked for a discussion within the European Parliament. If you need more information about the role of our deputies, I can advise the honourable deputies of this committee to contact their colleagues in Slovakia directly. I am sure the Slovak members of parliament will be willing to get in touch with you. This is all I wanted to say for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u22	Mr President, I would like to thank the members of the committee who have clearly followed very carefully, and I will respond to the best of my ability. There has been a very correct reference to the delicate context in which all this takes place. This is a rule of law, there is the separation of powers and there are also questions from the family and from the Slovak Republic about what happened to Mr Chovanec, husband and Slovak citizen. My speech started rather late in the timeline and with a reference to the subject on which the Directorate-General for Bilateral Affairs focuses, in particular bilateral relations with third countries, in this case with the Slovak Republic. I have also made it clear that the main theme of this dossier was followed up by my colleagues in DG Consular Affairs. I do not want to avoid any answers, but I will, as I have said, be able to answer as best I can. As one of the committee members pointed out, this is, fortunately, an exceptional incident and we are not very much confronted with such matters. The Executive Board of the FPS Foreign Affairs and the Consular Affairs DG of the FPS Foreign Affairs are involved. I do not have any documents showing to whom they have all sent copies, but we inform stakeholders. I can tell you that of the official e-mails that my DG and our embassies have written about the contacts they had in Slovakia, either proactively or at the request of the Slovak authorities, a copy was sent to the Home Affairs Office. I assume that my colleagues, whenever there was a contact, have done their best to find out who the interested parties needed to be informed. I don't have any details about that. I know, however, that an oral question was put to the Committee on External Relations by Mr Cogolati, which explicitly calls for a timeline. Normally, my Minister should have answered that question on 15 September, but lack of time did not answer that question. However, it is still on the agenda. It is an answer to an oral question, so I cannot anticipate it, but I believe that this retroacta will be dealt with in detail. We are also speaking within the Foreign Affairs Committee, so although the first formal report of my Directorate-General was only in July, we were, of course, aware of this unfortunate matter. We talked about this in our morning coordinations, among other things. There were also a lot of questions about our levers and resources. Colleague Marc Dejongh said he is a liaison, a relay actually, and to some extent the Foreign Office is, of course, a liaison. We receive foreign embassies and interlocutors and with respect for the separation of powers we then pass on information. For example, we can tell the federal prosecutor that there has been a demarche from the Slovak embassy, that the file is closely followed by the Slovak public opinion, that Mr Chovanec's widow provides certain information, and we can also offer ourselves my colleagues from the Consular Affairs DG have also done so as a channel to replay information to the Slovak authorities. As said, this always happens with respect for the separation of powers: we are messengers and messengers convey the messages of those who have given them. Our levers are limited, but we hope that the fact that we are drawing attention to the importance of this matter will have an indirect effect on the people who will then have to assume their responsibilities in this matter. I also mentioned earlier that my colleagues warned the P Committee. That was also a way for us to demonstrate the importance of this investigation and its follow-up. Mr Colebunders, I would like to return to your question on transparency. I cannot speak on behalf of my minister and say why, but I note that the Slovak Prime Minister, Mr Matovic, asked for transparency during contact with our ambassador, and I suspect that this has been re-established for that reason. It is clear that, once again, with respect for the rule of law and the separation of powers, we will pass on the information that can and may be passed on. We have assured Mrs Chovanec that, and the ambassador has also referred to this. A lawyer has taken up office in Belgium and has made himself a bourgeois party. With that, her lawyer also has access to the entire file. I cannot say exactly who advised her, but it has certainly been addressed to us that it was a way to have as much access as possible. As regards the insurances that have been given, I think it has been pointed out above all that it was high on the political agenda. One of the committee members referred to that as well. It is a matter that has not only caused a great deal of turmoil in Slovakia. In Belgium too, especially after the images were released, but also before, it was clear that this matter had to be given the necessary attention. When a person dies in unusual circumstances after an arrest, it deserves an investigation. As I said to Ambassador Kormúth earlier, it is not important at all whether this is a Slovak citizen, a Belgian citizen or someone of another nationality, this is about the foundations of our rule of law. That is also the message we have always given.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u23	Mr President, I will try to respond as structuredly as possible. Thank you for the many questions, but that makes it a little more complex to answer every question. I suggest I group some cases. A number of things have also been explained by the Ambassador and Mrs Van Calster. With regard to the role that we can play, I would like to return to what I have just said. I make connections between people, I facilitate something and then I have to make sure, no matter how sorry I am about what happened, that I remain in my own role and that I have confidence in the rule of law and our institutions. If I do not have direct evidence that someone has crossed the line or that is information about it, I have to assume that both the P Committee, the public prosecutor and the police hierarchy have responded at an appropriate time and in an appropriate manner and will continue the case. On two questions, however, I would like to clarify a misunderstanding, in particular Mr Colebunders' question and another Member's question on coordination between the federal police and Slovakia, as well as on the steps I have taken. I suspect those questions are due to a slight mistake on the agenda. After all, I was registered as a liaison officer in Bratislava, which is not correct. We don't have a liaison officer in Slovakia. I'm definitely at the FPS Foreign Affairs office here in Brussels. My second task is to carry out missions abroad, in Africa, on a regular basis, where we are working on projects. The question of whether I have followed up on the dossier has also been raised several times. I explained the circumstances and I also explained that everyone knew what expectations they could have. I can refer to the fact that two days later I received a very informal message from the Deputy Director-General for Consular Affairs, who told me in one line that an article had appeared in La Libre Belgique. At that time, I had the reflex to establish that there could be other things besides the one element he had indicated, namely that there might be reactions in the press and that this might get violent, given the images taken at the time of the arrest. We need to be clear about that. After two years after the facts, we know that there are different kinds of images. There are the footage taken at the scene of the arrest on the plane or on the tarmac and also the footage in the cell. There was indeed reference to the footage taken during the arrest itself. What contacts have I maintained with DG Consular Affairs? As usual when I return from mission, I walk around the Foreign Office building, I effectively visit my various partners and go through with them verbally what has happened over the last 14 days. In this way, I am aware of all the points of interest and I can quickly take up the thread again. That's what happened. I do not remember whether that was on Monday or Tuesday immediately after my mission, but I am quite sure that, as I always did, I went to the Director-General of Consular Affairs and his deputy and went through all the cases very briefly. As far as that is concerned, I come to the conclusion I have just given that everything was going on. I did not have the slightest doubt about that, however serious I found the facts, because it is indeed not every day that someone dies after an arrest and a stay in prison. That is serious, those procedures exist, but you should not ask me that question. That depends on the operational line and I'm not in that information line. Ik wil nog even reageren op de vraag van mevrouw Matz, die het had over serious facts in the transmission belt between the FPS Foreign Affairs and the Internal FPS and its administration. Mrs. Matz, that's not right. I'm a liaison officer with the FPS State Department, but in se, I have no contact with the FPS Home Office. If there should be contacts there, then they go from one FOD to another or, if it is about political matters, through the Cabinets. I don't have any contacts with either of them. The same applies to the Commissioner-General. If I had to tell him something, it would happen the moment he asks me a question and wants to know something about, for example, some project. That will be done through my director CGI. As I said earlier, I thought that was serious. When one sees an e-mail with such a title, one is afraid of it. That doesn't happen every day. At the same time, as Mrs Van Calster rightly said, we are dealing with the separation of powers. It is good that it exists in a rule of law and that it is not the police who must decide what will happen. That is indeed determined at the level of the parquet. If I were to try to find out something at the parquet, I would immediately get the lid on the nose. I would be told that they are working on the matter and that I must go by the appropriate route. In this respect, the appropriate way is for the question to be asked by the Directorate-General for Consular Affairs through their official contacts at the local courthouse. That's where the King's Attorney decides what he can tell and what he can't tell. There have also been contacts with the Attorney General of Mons and with the federal prosecutor. Those are the usual things they do, and I am not getting in the way of that at all. Mrs Kitir asked me if I do not see any improvement points. With the knowledge that one has afterwards and then did not have, there are always points of improvement and one can think about what can happen. I can assure you that a report will be produced on this subject through the examination carried out by the P Committee. The P Committee falls within Parliament's remit and they will report their findings on the flow of information after they have spoken to the people involved, some like me all the way from the sidelines, others in the hierarchical line. I don't think I should anticipate that. I just want to check to see if I've treated most of the things. Mr Pivin spoke about type procedures. I would like to say a few words about this. This is a matter of heavy facts, especially when we look at the outcome. For that, as far as I am concerned, there is no type procedure. After reading the first e-mail and then when I returned to Belgium, I found that everything we had at the time indicated that all the institutions would work on it and play their part. I do not think that I could have given an additional response there or that we should have developed specific procedures linked to such cases. If anyone else feels inadequate because I wouldn't have answered everything, then I'm still available.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u24	Thank you for your answers, Mr Dejongh. Colleagues, we want to keep an eye on time. We have another hearing scheduled for 4:00 p.m. I will have everyone present for a reply, but I would ask you to keep that very concise. So we don't keep the next guests waiting too long.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u25	Thank you for your answers. I have one more question for Mrs. Van Calster. First of all, I would like to thank you for the way in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been playing the map of transparency since we discovered this issue. You say, in an extremely assertive way, that you have reacted and sent this note verbale to Committee P and the Federal Police Liaison Office. When I heard you, I wondered if there wasn't a short circuit. Was it the Department of Foreign Affairs to request the P Committee? Committee P is an independent body. Shouldn't the Department of Foreign Affairs have approached the Speaker of the House, who himself would have asked for the P Committee? The accompanying committee would have been informed. My question is therefore brief and precise: do you not feel that there has been a short-circuit in the passage of information and that Foreign Affairs or a minister do not seek the P Committee? That's my feeling.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u26	Mr President, Mr Dejongh rightly points out that communication normally runs from FOD to FOD and from cabinet to cabinet. I would ask myself questions about the e-mail that the Jambon cabinet would have received. I say "would" because we can't control it anymore; that doesn't mean there are wrong intentions. This e-mail was sent from Foreign Affairs and contained a four-point interview report. The third point dealt with the matter in question. It says that Ambassador Vallo says that there is still uncertainty about the cause of death, that no additional information has yet been received. It also refers to the discussion of the former Minister of the Interior with Mr Vallo, in which the Minister did not provide any additional information. That also makes sense to me, since the investigation was ongoing. That was only three months after the facts. That was a very reasonable deadline for the course of the investigation. There were no alarms that the investigation would go wrong, it had just started. I don't quite understand, if it's so important that it should be sent to the cabinet... the e-mail says "please repeat to the cabinet," Joy Donné, but with a general address. Why doesn't this go from cabinet to cabinet, as usual? I have not received an answer to the question as to when contacts, up to seven times, between the Ambassador and the Foreign Office, will be reported to the political cabinet. Maybe there could be a problem here. The parquet is also regularly contacted. In order to ask questions about the court, one should not be at the Home Office, but at the Minister of Justice. If you have contacted directly several times and the answers are too long waiting for them to be insufficient, couldn't something have happened to the Justice Office from the Foreign Office, not from the FPS? It is not clear to me at all how that all went. I also did not receive an answer to my question as to the role of the protocol chief in the federal police. What was he supposed to do under the procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u27	Monsieur Rigot, Monsieur Pivin, Mr Demon, Mr Colebunders and Mr Vandenput do not wish to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u28	Thanks for the answers. Mr Dejongh, can you explain to the recipients in the mail you received?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u29	Mr. Chair, very briefly, I would like to thank our stakeholders for their answers, and perhaps just to say to Mr.Dejongh that when he said that everything had been done, that the judicial authority had been seized, that committee P was seized, but the biggest point for which no one was seized was that it was eventually the federal police in their role of disciplinary authority. That is the missing element of this file for the time being. We are trying to find out, basically, why "the franc has not fallen" at the level of the police – excuse me to repeat the same expression – and/or at the level of the Ministry of the Interior, to say: should we not at least initiate a disciplinary procedure? That is the element. The fact that you are, I'm not going to say the transmission belt, but it is true that it navigates between the two departments. That was my point. It was to say, basically... I'm asking questions, I'm not calling you into question. Do you have a role to ask at some point, saying "the case is serious", should the police not initiate a disciplinary investigation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u30	Can there be a very brief answer to a number of specific questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u31	Mr President, I will try again to respond to the best of my ability. The members of the protocol service delivered the verbal note to the P Committee. I don't know if this is the same as the Foreign Office catching the P Committee. They have transferred the verbal note from the Slovak embassy. It wasn't my board. I'm not quite sure about that procedure. I can't say much more about that. Then I come to the e-mail that left my Directorate-General about Ambassador Vallo's interview on 2 July at my Directorate-General. The case has indeed been mentioned, a reference has been made by Ambassador Vallo to his conversation with Minister Jambon. We then sent a copy of that report to the Home Office, from a kind of transparency courtroom, to report that this matter was mentioned during a farewell visit by the Slovak ambassador, and that the case was still on the radar of the Slovak authorities. There was no new information in that message. The only information contained in that message was that this was still on the agenda of the Slovak authorities. It seems to us normal to inform the cabinet accordingly. That's the general tone. We'll see who the stakeholders are, who needs to know what. Either we are going to communicate as the administration itself, or we are going to leave that to our cabinet. Since when has there been contact at the level of the cabinet? I am from the administration, and unfortunately I cannot give you an answer to that. When we write official reports, the Foreign Office is always in copy, but the Cabinet is not owed to the administration to report everything it does. That question should be asked to someone else.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u32	From when does the FPS, if anything serious enough, have to report it to the cabinet? That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u33	Our cabinet is informed in two ways, on the one hand by all the official reports. That is where they see what is serious. On the other hand, there are morning coordinations in which our cabinet is present. This is a meeting in which part of the Management Committee participates, not the staff directors, but those working on the substantive dossiers. There is normally a member of the Foreign Office and the cabinet is informed of this. The first mention of this matter will undoubtedly have been made by my colleague from the consular service. I do not know the exact date of that, but I do remember that this case has been discussed several times.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u34	Mrs Ingels' first question concerned the role of the protocol chief and what he could have done. I don't want to put words in his mouth. The core of the mail we received, which was just a forward from the mail traffic, was one sentence: "Could be a problem with the press, there was filming." That's all it was. There was no request from Mr Bockaert. After a further analysis of the underlying e-mails I had to do that very quickly, I think I dealt with that e-mail within five minutes I wondered who could do something with it in the short term. The Deputy Director General of Consular Affairs knew about it, his office is 10 metres from mine, and I had seen him the day before I left. So he knew very clearly that I was going to do something with it, but maybe nothing. I thought this might have consequences. When two days later it appeared that the national press had not taken over this, I thought it was normal that I did not get back from the protocol chief, that the matter was either under discussion or that he was working on other matters and would not send me an e-mail because he knew that I would probably read that e-mail when I got back. Those are the circumstances in which you need to see that. Purely hypothetical, suppose he would have seen the national press jumping on it, at that time it might have been useful for his information to know how it had been treated at the Foreign Office until then. However, that information was already available in principle, with the line from the unit where the first facts occurred. In the meantime we were already five days later; at the time I got that message, about an article in La Dernière Heure, we were a week away. At that time, in a normal course, the on-the-spot investigation is fully ongoing and all authorities have been informed that something has happened that is not normal. The parquet is then witty. I explained earlier, it was not up to me to take initiatives. The P Committee will then be briefed. I'm gonna keep thinking this case is serious. I am very concerned about everything relating to human rights and the use of coercion. In this context, we have several projects in Africa, where we set things up at the request of the local partners. This could be in a context of counter terrorism, strengthening capabilities, security sector reform of police de proximity. That remains the thread of the whole thing. Mrs. Kitir, you asked who the recipients of that e-mail were. The e-mail I received was addressed to me personally. I could think of it as something informative. The police were indeed mentioned, because the protocol service had been in contact with both the Charleroi police, where the complaint had been lodged, and with the airport. So the terrain was checked what had happened, what the circumstances were. I also knew, because of the fact that C1 was in charge of following up the case, that the management would again establish further contacts with the magistrate, in order to find out what it could find out about the further course of the investigation, without interfering with the investigations themselves. The question of whether other initiatives were ongoing or could be taken must therefore be put elsewhere. It is not for me to make any suggestions. Mrs. Matz, you asked a question about the disciplinary investigation. On the initiation of a disciplinary investigation you will understand that in my capacity as liaison officer I would fall completely out of my role by making even the slightest suggestion about the possible initiation of a disciplinary investigation. The authorities responsible for this must play their part. It is also clear that the disciplinary procedure will have to be given a role, regardless of the judicial procedure, but that this procedure is also subject to a number of cases in time. As long as judicial proceedings are under way, we must be very careful to start a disciplinary investigation in parallel. The technicality of the matter will be borne in mind. You'd better ask them to another government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u35	If there are no further replies from Members, I would like to thank everyone who was here today for giving the necessary explanations and answering the questions. Thank you very much, Mr Ambassador, for being here in committee. Mrs Van Calster and Mr Dejongh, thank you for your comments. I would also like to thank Mrs Janková and Mr Michalec for their presence on the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u36	We'll resume the agenda for today. We have invited Mr Desenfants, Director-General of the Administrative Police, to hear him as part of the police section. We decided this at the meeting of 8 September 2020. At that time we also decided to organise separate meetings for the international part, which we have now concluded. We had also invited Mr Thielemans as director of the management of the administrative police operations. Mr Thielemans indicated that he was not taking part in the meeting. He sent an e-mail stating his reasons. It is also placed on the extranet, you have been able to learn about it. We are first listening to an introductory statement by Mr Desenfants. Then we can ask questions if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am André Desenfants, Director General of the Administrative Police, currently prevented. First of all, I would like to thank you for the invitation. I wanted to be here to explain what I did as Director General about the case that brings us together today. I still have a lot of questions myself. I have asked for several investigations to be conducted in order to provide answers. But I also know that my questions are not much in relation to the questions that Mr. Chovanec's family has been asking for a long time. I sincerely hope that the various surveys under way will be able to provide answers. There is, of course, everything that led to the death of Mr Chovanec, following what we know, but there is also, alongside that, a whole series of unacceptable behaviors, inadequate attitudes that have been shown and that I must of course sanction, not tolerate, while respecting the procedures in this area. That's what the 5,000 policemen I run now are asking for, who do their work in the field. They ask that this kind of behaviour should not belong to the police. They also ask that we understand that they have a complicated job. The incidents in question should not be allowed to cast reproach on all those colleagues who do their work on a daily basis. But in the face of unacceptable behaviour, one cannot, of course, procrastinate. It is therefore a matter of pointing out in an objective manner all the transgressions which can be observed and which must be punished. When, in mid-August, I discovered the resulting images and information, which were made public when these images were distributed, when I saw Mrs. Chovanec express her feelings and questions, I was deeply moved, shaken, shocked. My first reaction was to say, when I saw in particular this Nazi greeting: "This is not my police!" In the face of this, as Director General, I have to take action. I can't just complacent in someone's shocked attitude, I have to act too. I asked for three different surveys: one with an immediate measure with regard to Nazi salvation; another, which I think is essential also, on the flow of information because, this information that was disclosed in these videos, I did not know them. I want to know how it happened that I didn't know that such an incident had occurred. I want to know if there are any blockages, places where improvements are needed. How is it that I have not been informed? Finally, the third survey concerns other questions, possibly inappropriate behaviour that has been filmed. To this end, I have urgently requested access to the case file at the investigation. This access has been granted in the meantime. The investigation, at this level, is under way in our internal service. To explain these investigations, I must tell you that – this was discussed at one of the first sessions in committee – the disciplinary authority is organised as follows: for the staff of the Directorate of the Airport Police, the disciplinary authority of first instance, which is called the ordinary authority, it is the director of the airport police; for me, I exercise the function of superior authority in disciplinary matters. The higher authority is also the one that imposes heavy sanctions. Usually, it is seized by the ordinary authority when the latter, in a prior investigation, considers that the facts deserve a heavy sanction. However, the higher disciplinary authority may also take action when it itself finds facts liable to a heavy penalty. I asked for these three investigations knowing very well that the investigation into the flow of information was going to require an unusual gesture on my part. I am part of the line of command and this flow of information, so I have asked my Commissioner-General to be able to interrupt the exercise of my mandate for the time to carry out the checks as part of this information flow survey. The fact that I am currently prevented is solely related to this investigation, and I want her to be calm. My will as Director General is to be able to resume my duties as soon as possible in order to be able to implement all that will result in particular from this investigation which, in the meantime, is carried out by the P Committee. I would also like to go back with you in time. As far as I am concerned, this case began on 1 March 2018. I was then Director General of the Administrative Police, after being appointed by a royal decree of 27 November 2017 and sworn in on 16 January 2018. I had begun, a few months earlier, as a director acting because my predecessor had left for many months already. One acting director had been appointed by another director, in combination with his regular duties, but it was time for the position to be re-occupied. Also, to allow me to familiarize myself with my duties before my appointment, I started earlier. When I arrived, this Directorate-General consisted of nine different directorates, including the airport police, front-line directorates and support directorates. In total, at the time, about 4,000 men and women – the vast majority of them of course being police officers – worked in this Directorate-General of the Administrative Police. I arrived and found that my staff, the people around me, was far from complete. During the period when there was no full Director General, several advisors and many others had left. My first priority had to be to re-establish a team that could master this great general management with so many directorates and staff. Fortunately, I could count on my nine directors, all of whom have been in place for enough time to be experienced and know their jobs. I know I can lean on them. My team was formed at the end of 2017. Around December, the first ones arrive and early 2018. As 2018 progresses, we're getting in place. Of course, everyone who joins me is also new in this direction. On March 1st, it is mainly a date when I discover a press article entitled "Death of a passenger too turbulent". This was the title chosen by the Sudpresse group to relay a statement from Charleroi's public prosecutor's office. Before that, I had not been informed or informed that there had been a death. So, I read the article and I see that, in fact, a person had apparently posed problems when he boarded a plane, that the police had been called, that there had been an arrest and that then the person had died after a few days in the hospital. It is also stated in the article that there is a civil party constitution, that the judiciary is investigating and that it is also investigating the work of the airport police. That's the information I have. I do not know at that time what happened before 1 March; I do not know the information and exchanges that took place before that date. It is only then that I discover this. Immediately, I react – in several steps. First of all, at the first minute of reading the article, I send an e-mail to the director. Then I'm going to see my collaborators. Within two hours, I will be sent an e-mail listing a series of steps to be taken. Why? I note, when reading the article, that the judicial component is taken over. In my long career, I have observed the following situation many times. When police officers are faced with a difficult situation, once the judicial component is closed, they feel that the main one is done. In addition to this, other initiatives must be taken internally by the police. It is not a wicked will not to inform the police. There is nothing hidden, since justice can conduct its work. As I said, I have seen in my long career several times, the internal part is not closed. The only way to try to get things started later, since the initial phase has not been completed, is to fall back on existing procedures. It is necessary to inform several services, which themselves will inform others. So these are chain reactions. In short, if a file is to be properly handled, procedures must be used. At that time, my role as Director General is to tell the Director of Airport Police everything that needs to be done. The Operations Directorate (DAO), the Welfare and Protection at Work Service (CGWB), the Core Consultation Committees, etc., should be notified. The goal is to avoid an over-incident. It also consists of avoiding, by taking urgent measures which it may wish to take, that this happens in the immediate future, and taking precautionary measures. All this litany of measures is sent out on 1 March, with guidelines on what to do. One of my collaborators is thus made available to facilitate these steps. And I see it's followed by effects. On 2 March, I see that the warnings are being made, that the documents are beginning to circulate, that CGWB is aware of the fact that the Police Academy is being contacted in particular with regard to operational debriefings. Legal assistance is also an important component. Since there is an investigation, legal assistance for the police is in place. All this takes place on March 2, March 9 and later in March. At no time for me is there a Nazi salvation or any other element. Furthermore, I am still not aware of any contacts or exchanges of information before 1 March. To be complete, on February 26 and 27, I was on leave but that doesn't prevent anything because I am my e-mails and I am contactable during my holidays. It's not a problem. The question that was asked – I also heard it when I attended one of the first sessions of the commission – is whether the DGA informed the Commissioner General. I do not recall having informed the Commissioner General. I am not used to informing the Commissioner-General of articles in the press, except that I am in possession of specific elements that make it necessary for me to warn the Commissioner-General. But this article is in the press. When I say I found it in the press, it's in the federal police press review. At that time, my priority is to take charge of this event. After this month of March, the proceedings are initiated and the various levels of the police are working. Then, for me, there is the date of August 2020. In the meantime, I made sure that my guidelines were followed and at no time was I made aware of any elements as seen on the videos in 2020, etc. As soon as I became aware of it, I took further action. So, on March 1, 2018, I detect the article, I take the measurements. In August 2020, I am taking further action. I have to say, and I told you at the beginning also by setting the context, that I have never based my human resources management on default mistrust. Nor am I a person who gives a blissful or naive trust, but I am not by default suspicious, and I do not see, by default, evil everywhere. I was heard by Committee P. I have told you, I want these investigations to take place calmly, and all the measures that must be taken will be taken, with due respect, of course, for all the procedures, presumptions of innocence, etc. All this has also been recalled and must of course apply here too. My objective, as I have also said, is to be able to return as Director General, to be able to re-execute my duties, which are interrupted for the time being, in order to be able to implement the recommendations resulting from the investigations, and to continue the disciplinary or other procedures that prove to be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u38	Thank you, Mr Des enfants.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u39	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mr Desenfants for his testimony. Mr Desenfants, I do not know how colleagues have experienced this, but I am quite impressed by your honesty. I see you've been struck, and I know you as a man of integrity. Thank you for this testimony. I have a few questions. You say that investigations are ongoing and that you have stepped aside because you are part of the infflux. I believe that we can only respect that. I'd like to know how long such an investigation will take. After all, it cannot be an insurmountable task to look at this infflux, especially since there is also an internal service note on how it should have been. The comparison with the way this has happened now does not seem so difficult. Furthermore, I would have liked to know what progress has been made on the other ongoing investigations. Your director, LPA, was set aside and moved to another department. Who's running your shift now? Are these people sufficiently supported to take on those assignments? What happens to the policemen who were on the scene? I'm not just talking about the lady with the Hitler greetings, I'm talking about the others. Disciplinary procedures are particularly useful if they get there quickly. I do not know how long they will wait to take further steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u40	Mr President, Mr Desenfants, thank you for your presence, first of all - this is an exercise that is not easy - and also for your sincerity. Mr Des enfants, you take up your duties on March 1st at the airport police. The facts are very recent. I hear that, in a spirit of constructive trust with each other, you take a series of steps and check with your services that they have been respected. You untie one of your collaborators and you have feedback that everything you have requested follows its course and that the procedures are followed. Mr Des enfants, I therefore imagine that in this case you are also informed of the debriefing meetings. In these debriefing meetings, is the incident mentioned? Are you talking about it? Are you also informed, since you talked about the fact that the police academy is being asked for a debriefing, do you follow the situation closely? How is it that during these very important meetings, attended by police academy monitors, the images are not viewed? It's still a rather hallucinating fact, if you want to learn from these acts, these gestures, and debrief an event. How is it that the images are not viewed at that time, since you are not aware of them? Mr Des enfants, you said, you really put your finger on the flow of information. He's very important. At this stage of the investigation, which flashers you can tell yourself: "What did I not see, what did not come back to me as information? I think it is important, in any case, for us to understand this way, in any case the information that has been given to you. I think complaints, at the police level, you have them on a regular basis. What do you think of the current complaints system within the police? Do you think that's accurate enough? Do you have any recommendations or do you see points to improve on the basis of your experience? Today, some police officers are reluctant to file complaints because complaints are not being followed up. Today, the system of alert protection within the public administration should work. Is that so? Mr Des enfants, you said, with a lot of emotion, "This is not my police." It's not our police either! As parliamentarians, we are embarrassed, and the word is weak. You say you didn't see the pictures, discovered this press article on March 1. It's about the death of a man! If there's a criminal investigation, we can suspect that the police are involved. How does this not trigger something more procedural and disciplinary? This police is not ours, we do not want to divide each other. This has been repeated for a long time in the hearings: we must build bridges between citizens and the police. This way of doing things today is not audible. We're waiting for action.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u41	Mr Des enfants, thank you for your presence, which demonstrates your willingness to help achieve clarity by following up on our invitation. First of all, I would like to point out that, if we have asked the Directorate-General of the Administrative Police for a hearing, it is in the perspective of being able to establish what the chain of transmission of information should have been, through which it should have passed, in what form, to understand where the gear did not work, why the information was not transmitted. Far from us the will to interfere in the investigation! It is important to stress this. Like us, Mr Des enfants, we wonder. Before the March 1 article, you did not have any information on upstream exchanges and actions. What is the normal chain of information flow under such circumstances? Has it been respected? How is it that at least two reports are circulating and that you are not aware of them? Is it normal for information to flow between operational services – the TSS or the Minister's office – without your management being informed of it as a minimum as a copy of a message? You say you discovered the images just a few weeks ago in mid-August. On the other hand, you also indicate that you gave instructions to the airport police on March 1st. Did you ask in these instructions for a report to be sent to you or, failing that, did you receive, on the initiative of this airport police, a package of information that would allow you to see more clearly what had happened? If so, what was the content and how did you react? You indicate that you do not remember informing the Commissioner General. However, during this long period of two and a half years, have you had any contact with the Commissioner-General in this matter? If so, what kind of contacts? Finally, a federal police report on well-being at work arrived on March 2, 2018 on the DGA/DAO box (Administrative Police Operations Directorate) How does this box work? Is it managed by a person? Is it a collective or service-specific box? What are the suites reserved for this incoming mail? Have you been able to view the images? You indicate that you only saw these images, like us, when they were released last August. If so, is that normal?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u42	I would also like to thank Mr Des enfants for his presentation, and I can imagine how badly he must live this situation. Personally, I will not go beyond that because, out of respect for what the Prosecutor General Delmulle has requested, since I am already very careful about this matter in the Committee P's accompanying committee and because, in that committee, we receive information on the progress of this investigation, I prefer to refrain at this stage from asking any questions to the Director General of the Administrative Police.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u43	Mr Desenfants, I'd like to give you my surprise. It is very strange that your own director of the aviation police, the cabinet and the minister's staff were aware of the facts, it was also in the press report of the federal police, and that they did not inform you of the facts. There are lessons to be learned from this for the future. You have explained what you have already done. I just wanted to express my surprise about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u44	Mr Desenfants, thank you for coming here to testify. I'm sure this is very deep with you. I'd like to go back to August. When we saw the footage, we were all shocked. You were the first to take responsibility, you stepped aside. I don't know if I'm satisfied with that. After all the hearings we have already had, I still cannot imagine that nothing of what has happened would have come to you. We have mentioned it several times, there was this Hitler greeting, but the others in that room are not pure either. We've seen devil horns. People were dancing because they could have overpowered someone who died later. What's going on? Do you really feel that there is a culture of silence that has emerged several times in previous hearings? You said in your testimony that you are not naturally suspicious. In the position you're in, you really should be. Nothing in this world goes without saying. If everything were to go so well that we could have confidence in everything and everything, we would, frankly, not need a police force and certainly not a Committee P to investigate the mistakes in the police. But it happens. In the file on the table, I see that more is needed than anything we could ever think. I'll just ask you the question very harshly. Where do you think it went wrong? What could have been much better at the time? Politicians can certainly learn tremendously when it comes to self-criticism. I look at you to be self-critical in that respect. What do you say you should have handled it differently? After all the hearings we have had here, my biggest question remains unanswered. How can those shocking images be hidden for so long? Where were they all this time? I would very much like to know how that ended up in his work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u45	Thank you, Mr Desenfants, for being here and giving an explanation. I came to this committee with one question: where did the flow of information linger within your DGA department? You said you started an investigation into these information flows. That was already three to four weeks ago, or perhaps even longer. Just now, in the session before this session, Mr Dejongh said that the LPA was in cc from the mail he received. It talks about these serious issues. So I don't think you or your investigators should go looking very far to get to the LPA or some of the aviation police entities. I have the same question as my colleague. How much longer will that investigation take? The elements are known. By dragging this on for a very long time, you create the perception that journalists are faster in their investigation than the police themselves. Let me explain myself. We have received a document through the secretariat of the Chamber and through Minister De Crem. That document was exchanged between the police and the Jambon cabinet. The cabinet had asked for a note about what had happened there. We're talking about a muscled police action. That note is anonymized, but the press knows who wrote that note. I know, too. I have the two names. But apparently the police aren't able to bring something like that up. I think that is a very serious defect within the organization. This also means that a number of specific organisations within the aviation police are seriously ill, that they simply do what they want. That can already be said out loud. It's a public secret within the police department, not only in your department but also in local areas. Look at the problems at Brunat in 2014 and 2016, which we talked about here yesterday. When are you coming up with the final results of the investigation? That shouldn't last another week. All things are known.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u46	Thank you, Mr Desenfants, for your testimony. Allow me to begin by saying that you were one of the first and only people to believe that action should be taken after the images were shown. That is a sign of humanity and genuine indignation, which we have missed in the dossier in question. I would like to thank you for that. After all, the dossier itself is already significant enough. Mr President, you know that I would have preferred the current hearings at the time when all the investigations would have been completed. We must now ask questions with the hand brake on and with information that is either not to be given or not known by us, which makes the work difficult. However, I have resigned to the majority of the committee which wanted to hold the hearings. There is therefore nothing left for me to add to the question that is to come. I hear you explain that you did not take action until 1 March, when the press review reached you, because you knew that, apart from the legal part, there was a very different responsibility and a very different procedure had to start. You will send an e-mail containing guidelines. You will notice in the following e-mails that there is movement. You put forward, on the one hand, that you were not aware of the Hitler greeting, because that information did not flow. On the other hand, the press release has shown that violence has been used. At least that was in the press releases which we were able to read and which appeared in the press in February. It did indeed link the use of force by the police and possibly the death of Mr Chovanec. I therefore remain left with the following question. On the basis of the press release, you already made the link, without knowing what happened effectively, and you realized that other steps had to be taken in this respect, after which you did what you had to do. Then you note that no one said anything to you after that, but that you saw things moving. Perhaps you should explain who you should have told us. Why is that? After all, there were images and a report. That's not very clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u47	Mr President, Mr Desenfants, I thank you for your presence, for all the measures you have initiated since the distribution of the images and for the great dignity with which you come today afternoon before this committee. It is indeed troubling to know that it is "only" on 1 March, because you have access to the press and not to an official report, that you become aware of the facts that took place in Charleroi. At that time, you are taking a whole series of measures that you mentioned. But a question remains a little unanswered at the moment because it is the same answer given to it each time: why, at that time, no disciplinary procedure has been initiated. Each time, we were told that the P Committee and justice were seized and that, therefore, there was no need to initiate disciplinary proceedings. I think that's where the confusion comes from. It is true that the police are frequently told that, when a disciplinary investigation is under way, no disciplinary proceedings are initiated in parallel. However, this is tantamount to ignoring or failing to implement what the P Committee is asking for in one of its recommendations. He recalls that remaining inactive in disciplinary matters, on the grounds that judicial proceedings are ongoing, is contrary to Darville's jurisprudence. A more general recommendation may need to be drawn from this case, as there is likely to be a problem at the police level related to the simultaneousity of the two procedures, even if the deadlines for disciplinary proceedings are suspended. Admittedly, it takes some time to conduct this procedure. Why, therefore, not suspend it for the time that the judicial investigation is completed? You have to be able to initiate something. I'm extremely sensitive to what you said. Since you didn't have the cards in hand to establish any responsibilities, in the meantime, it's on the whole police that the reproach is thrown. However, we do not want that to be the case. I know you didn't have access to the images. But the fact that there was a criminal investigation under way with the constitution of a civil party and the fact that there were certainly disturbing elements at the time of the arrest in view of what happened in the cell, did this not imply, perhaps, seeking to find out a little more? And, if the facts were likely to be punished, would it not have been necessary to initiate this disciplinary procedure? This is what you did, on the other hand, as soon as you became aware of the images. You partially answered one of our questions, indicating that the judicial investigation was under way and that Committee P had been seized. Were the elements sufficient? Why has this not been undertaken? Why is Darville's case law not percolating within the police? In several cases, disciplinary authorities seem uncomfortable when it comes to conducting disciplinary proceedings simultaneously in criminal proceedings. I think you're sitting as number two on the police steering committee. When you became aware of the facts after March 1, did the case go back to this instance? Has the committee been able to discuss and report on all the measures you have taken, such as the police academy? Has he been able to discuss it, as in other cases? This seems to have stopped at your hierarchical level. As you yourself have indicated, the central question is the flow of information. We do not understand why this dossier does not go up to you by an official way or why it is you who discover it through a press article. How come, if you don't ask for information, you don't get it? That's very worrying. Without wishing to reveal the Crown and draw hasty conclusions from the investigations that you have opened, it would be interesting for us to know what should normally happen in such a situation: with man's death in particular circumstances. What procedures would not have worked? Or was it normal for you not to be officially informed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u48	Mr Desenfants, I have an addition to what Mrs Kitir and Mr Pivin said. There are indeed several investigations in progress. A study has been carried out by the P Committee. There's also a judicial investigation. That makes it difficult for our committee to properly dance on a loose cord to clear this situation up to the bone. There is a very large consensus in Parliament on this. In addition, we are not a committee of inquiry. It is not up to us to appoint culprits or to hold individuals responsible for certain actions that they would have committed. That's not our job. It should be our job to help prevent such incidents in the future. Several Members, probably everyone here, have referred to it: they are about structures, procedures and the flow of information. We are very concerned about the inadequate flow of information, which has been mentioned several times. You say that's what one of your three investigations is about. I agree with the various questions that have been raised. When would that investigation be concluded? If so, can you present us with a number of points of concern?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u49	Mr Des enfants, thank you for your presentation. Indeed, it is quite disconcerting to see that you only confirm what has been said at the previous hearings of the federal police representatives, namely that there have been malfunctions in the information chain, up to your leader, and that vital information has not been brought up to you. It's very challenging. What is also so, as the representatives of the federal police and the minister in charge of the interior at the time had pointed out, is this hiatus between the relations of the police and the images. How is it that even when the law on the police function requires police officers to make exhaustive reports that correctly report the facts, we ignore such serious and important facts? That leads me to ask you a few questions. First of all, why only the first report, which was the most incomplete, of the Charleroi airport police was sent to the Minister of the Interior, and not the reports that followed? Who knew and who had access to these famous reports? You also said that you were not used to informing the Commissioner-General about events that would have been published in the press. Why? Would you need a legal basis to do this? Is it a custom that was established in the context of the operation of the federal police at the time? The term "usage" seems to me rather vague and deserves clarification. You are referring to specific elements in order to be able to inform the Commissioner General. What exactly do you mean by "special elements"? Again, this creates a form of insecurity with regard to the crucial information that must be able to be raised to the highest level of the federal police hierarchy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u50	Thank you for your various questions. First of all, there are several issues that actually deal with the investigations that are under way. I asked for three investigations. As I have told you, the information flow investigation is being conducted by Committee P. So for the moment, this is Committee P's investigation. I personally do not think there is a need for redundancy in investigations. On the other hand, according to the results of the P Committee survey, if it were to be found that for internal needs, one still needs to dig one thing or the other, one will continue. I repeat, the information flow survey is an investigation by Committee P. There is no other investigation at the moment. Since we know it's the P committee that's in charge of the investigation... there's no redundancy. How long will this investigation last? I don't know. I know that it is in progress but I do not have any indication from Committee P on the duration. Personally, I would like this to go as quickly as possible and to start implementing the recommendations. What about other investigations? These are disciplinary investigations, etc. I can reassure you, all these investigations are under way. But I would not like to endanger these investigations or make a mistake here, which could taint the procedures of irregularities. Who's running my department right now? This is Director Wald Thielemans, who is the Director of DAO. Is he supported enough? My entire team is at his disposal. I'm the only one who took a step on the side, not my entire team. What about the people on site in Gosselies? I made it clear from the outset that I had requested access to the court file because there is still an investigation that has been going on since the date of the facts. And I would like to have access to it so that I can look at all the information and everything about other actions on the video. These activities are ongoing at the level of our own internal control, which conducts all these investigations on behalf of the higher authorities. Once again, I would not want to taint any irregularities or injure the secrecy of the investigation. I may not have been quite clear, but I would point out that I have not seconded a collaborator, but I have appointed one of my collaborators to be the point of contact for the management of the airport police in the framework of the directives I had given. Personally, I didn't see the images. I will repeat what I said at the beginning, that I acted according to the elements that I had at my disposal. I wanted to put the procedure back on track because it is the only way to ensure full and effective follow-up and provide for the transmission of reports. From then on, all levels play their part, and the information that would be detected and that I'm supposed to know also goes back to me. In fact, I am relying on support according to known procedures. If I invent a procedure immediately, I am sure and certain that there would be problems. I did not personally view the images. How is it that, during debriefings, you don't see the images? I also do not understand it and am therefore unable to provide any justification in this regard. I have also been asked to answer a question raised by Committee P in this regard, and I assume that Committee P will return to this question in the course of its investigation. The core of the problem is the flow of information. This flow is analysed in depth by Committee P. Knowing the investigations of Committee P, I assume that this analysis will be carried out in an exhaustive manner, with all the recommendations for use. What did I not get for information? This is all that I could see in August and that I should have known. It's information that should have gone back to me, but I didn't get it. I told you when my position began on March 1, 2018. Secondly, I hope that the surveys will show how the flows went, in order to identify the problems and nature of the information exchanged. I was also asked about the flow of information with the cabinet of the Minister of the Interior. Is it normal that the flow of information does not go back to me? No. I have already asked my directors on several occasions to show me the content of their direct contacts. So, when I discovered the press article on March 1, I didn't know. The information flow survey also addresses this aspect. You also asked me about the disciplinary procedure and the simultaneousity of the proceedings. As I explained to you, such a case does not automatically trigger disciplinary proceedings. Management was responsible for initiating and continuing internal procedures. It is obvious that, if she finds out at that time, facts that require disciplinary proceedings or referral to the higher disciplinary authority, she will do so. That was not the case here. From the moment I read the images, I did it. Of course, this is difficult to understand in many questions. We know what we know now, we understand the situation now, but we must try to get back to the previous position. Depending on the information at my disposal, I acted as I thought I had to at the time. I was a thousand miles away from imagining that there had been a Nazi salvation or something like that. Regarding the simultaneous nature of the proceedings, it is a fact that the criminal is holding the disciplinary as it is. Now the procedures are in progress. Was this issue addressed by the steering committee? In line with what I said before, it was not discussed until August 2020. In any case, I have no memory – I would have to check all the steering committees – of any specific mention of this. With regard to the Commissioner-General's information and the term "usual", I do not need a legal basis to inform her. I simply explain that I am aware of a fact in the press and I do not have the reflex to say that I must report it to the Commissioner-General, since it comes from the press. It is neither a habit nor a rule that says that if it comes from the press, you must not pass it on. I simply had no information other than those contained in this article and I did not inform the Commissioner-General. With regard to the investigations that were requested and what was done here was to understand, to have an answer to the questions and to be able to take initiatives so that this would not happen again. It is a question of the hiatus between relationships and images, etc. All this is the subject of ongoing investigations. I'm really embarrassed that I can't tell you any more. Nor can I go any further on the content of these different surveys. None of what happened came to me. That's hard to believe. Of course, I have a problem with that, too. Does the culture of silence live with us? A judicial investigation is under way here, so I think the work has been done in the judicial field. As I said earlier in my presentation, the hatch police haven't been treated. One of the questions was about people who have the impression that complaints are not treated when they submit them. I can only contradict that. When certain matters are reported to me, they are usually matters that have already gone through several steps. So, by definition, it's not a simple matter. They need to be examined. That's what's being done. So I don't think there's a culture of silence within the police. I receive staff very regularly to address something, to make a general statement, to give an impression, or to suggest improvements. The latter also happens very often. I do not know if there are any questions I have not answered, but I have to refer here to the ongoing investigations, which I cannot and cannot say today. What I can tell you is that I ask that all the light be made, and that everything be done also, and implemented, so that it does not happen again. I said, I don't have a blissful and naive trust, but I know the police job, I've been in the field too. I know it's difficult, but I also know that the police expect me to be firm about what can't happen. And that's what I want to show and continue to promote. These are our values, which is why we are here. What happened is hard to cash. Very hard. But that's something we need to look into. And we must act. That's what we're going to do, and that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u51	Thank you, Mr Des enfants, for your answers. Members of the committee who wish to do so may still speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u52	Mr Desenfants, you said you didn't see the footage yourself. You also said the footage wasn't taken during the briefing. That's amazing, if I may put it that way. There are video cameras in that cell. Why are there video cameras in a cell? That's to make footage. In this case, it is a very difficult police action and someone died in the context of that police action. That's why it's amazing that those images have just surfaced in the press. Maybe we should ask a question about that footage? Those cameras were right there. Who knew those cameras were there? I suspect at least the agents who were part of the service there every day. I also suspect the director, who was also an officer at that time, Mr Elst. Were you even aware of the existence and presence of those cameras? Can you explain the following? Is it or is it not a standard procedure, in case cameras are present, to use the images in the debriefing of an incident?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u53	Very briefly, I will apologise in the questioning of my colleague. Indeed, this is a terrible and dramatic moment, and fortunately exceptional: the death of a man in a cell, in our territory, during an intervention, in the presence of our police forces. So I'm asking myself the same question. How does no one think about viewing images? How is it that there is no process to ensure that these images are transmitted and relayed, because they contain a serious alarm signal, an arrest, a police action that is going wrong? No one sees these images live and no one has the presence of a mind to ask or transmit them. That raises the question. Why put cameras in cells if these cameras are useless? I'm really asking myself the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u54	Mr President, it has already been mentioned by my fellow Members that there is little point in organising these hearings until the investigations have been completed. I would like to apologize, Mr Desenfants, for the fact that the investigation was carried out within your areas, but it is therefore being carried out by the P Committee. Mr President, can the committee simply send a letter to the Chairman of the P Committee asking when the investigation will be completed? As Mrs Kitir said, otherwise there is little point in us receiving people who can say nothing or not much. I would therefore suggest, with the approval of all Members, that the committee should send an official letter and ask the P Committee when it will have completed its examination.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u55	I think that is not a bad suggestion in itself, but it is part of the arrangements for the work. That should not be discussed now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u56	Mr Des enfants, I thank you for having answered the questions to the extent of the possibilities left by the scope of the inquiry but also by that of Committee P. While I share most of the remarks made by my colleagues that it may be necessary to stop, at some point in time, I still find that you have provided elements which do not encroach on judicial competence and which are such as to make us interrogative in relation to two essential elements. The first is information. Secondly – and here I admit that I am still a little hungry – you said that we were putting ourselves in the current context by viewing the images and that, in this case, it is obvious that disciplinary proceedings were required. By the way, you started it and right away. But at the time, you didn't. On this point, however, a criminal investigation is under way. So it's not annoyance. In addition, a report circulates on various events that have taken place, although it remains relatively neutral. In any case, this could have given rise to some questions. On the other hand, there is also the fact that a Slovak embassy is trying, by all means, to obtain answers to the questions raised. At that level too, there is a lack of information. Maybe you didn't know the Slovak embassy was trying to figure out what happened. When you put all the pieces to a close, you think that it might not have required a disciplinary investigation from the outset, but at least the gathering of information that might have – I don't know, it's a lot of assumptions – brought to the images to eventually initiate a disciplinary procedure. It is not a question of initiating such a procedure to initiate one, but rather of establishing possible responsibilities in order to avoid everyone being tainted by this case. On this point, I think, but I am not a disciplinary authority, that disturbing elements could generate some kind of information gathering that might have allowed something else. I put all this on the conditional because, as you say, it is always easy to write the history a posteriori with elements that were not known to you at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u57	Mr Desenfants, would you like to answer Mrs Soors' specific questions, as far as you can and can, of course?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u58	One of the key questions in the flow of information is, of course, the issue of images. Who saw these images? And beyond the images, who saw what happened and didn't report the incident? This is not only about the issue of images but also about the availability of information, and I see that this information has not come to me. Who saw these images and under what circumstances? Have these images been viewed or not during some debriefings? The investigation will have to prove this, but it is not up to me to conduct this investigation. I speak only subject to the results of the investigations. In any case, I find that the elements of these images did not reach me. Was I supposed to see them myself at that time? I don't think that was necessary. Normally, this information should have been detected and reported much earlier. What are the signals that should have prompted me to personally look at these images at the time? I explained what I had as information, how I acted on that information, and what my concerns were in that regard. What interests me is who saw these images and didn't report them. The investigations are under way and I am curious to know the results.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u59	Thank you for your answer. I think it is necessary to distinguish between reactivity on signals that were known at that time and proactivity following the death of a man. This is the proactivity that I question here, related to the presence of these cameras and the fact that some people were aware of it. I would have waited for proactivity from people who might have been aware of the existence of these images following the death of a man.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-23-55-commissie-ic266x.u60	I would like to thank Mr Desenfants for his presence and for his serene speech. I think we've all learned something from that.
