ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u2	There has been a change in the order of questions because Minister De Croo has asked, with the agreement of his colleagues, of course, whether he can answer his questions first. I invite him to come forward and sit next to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u3	Mr President, Minister, we are going to talk about tax evasion and the World Bank. I am therefore speaking to you as Minister of Finance and Minister for Development Cooperation. The IMF estimates global tax evasion at several hundred billions. In Belgium alone, we would be talking about a loss estimated at between 20 and 30 billion for our public finances, while our budget deficit is worrying and is estimated at 12 billion. Tax evasion is a nightmare for our democracies and for our prosperity. It is all the more shocking when it is organized on the backs of official development assistance, and therefore of the most vulnerable people on our planet. However, this is reflected in an internal report of the World Bank, which this institution has tried to hide from us. The report indicates that, on average, 7.5 per cent of World Bank payments to developing countries are diverted to tax havens, rising to 15 per cent for the seven countries most supported by the institution. Belgium, as a good student of multilateralism, actively supports the World Bank. On the other hand, compared with many other donors, Belgium entrusts its public funds to the Bank's common pot, without giving clear guidelines for what this money should contribute to. Since the 1980s, with its policy of structural adjustment, the World Bank has been criticized by people all over the world: for its lack of democracy, its shortcomings in terms of human rights and the environment and, today, for the poor monitoring of its aid and its attempts to conceal its information. However, Belgium's weight is important at the World Bank as it is a member of its Board of Directors. And I would point out that this mandate is not subject to parliamentary scrutiny as regards the guidelines adopted. Minister, what are your conclusions with respect to this report? What reactions does Belgium intend to have within the World Bank to these findings? What are you planning to strengthen the democratic control of this institution?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u4	Mr President, Mrs de Laveleye, first of all, this is not an official report published by the World Bank but a series of articles based on the resignation of Mrs Penny Goldberg, Chief Economist of the World Bank. According to some sources, his resignation is linked to the fact that the World Bank does not want to publish an internal investigation into increases in transfers to accounts in tax haven countries. Belgium, through its post in Washington and its representations to the World Bank, will examine this issue very closely. It will clearly ask the World Bank to provide it with the data that appears to be part of an internal investigation. In a more general context, integrity is a basic element of Belgian development cooperation. An integrity charter and an anti-corruption clause are included in our partnership agreements. These are important elements and we will support them with the World Bank. On the other hand, the Belgian Cooperation no longer gives any budgetary support. The fact that you mention is linked to budgetary support bodies. It is clear that when direct budgetary support is provided to partner countries, there is much more risk of tax evasion or transfers to tax havens. Belgium does not make direct budgetary support, which, I think, reduces our vulnerability to such elements as those you refer to. If at the World Bank where we are indeed doing a lot of core funding, there was a problem mentioned in these articles, we would immediately ask it to justify itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u5	Minister, thank you. We know how much attention you pay to integrity issues as it is a work that has been going on for some time with all the players in the sector. That said, as a Member, I am still dismayed that the multilateral development agencies are still not up to their mandate in terms of supporting people in the countries of the South and their legitimate desire for prosperity and that they are still contributing to tax evasion. We're an assiduous donor. We know that it is important for you that we be a good supporter of multilateralism, but our country has a strong political role to play as a member of the Board of Directors of the World Bank. It is really time for Belgium to show an even stronger desire for integrity in these very large agencies that have not always been good examples of integrity. I ask you two things: first, to have our influence on this level and then, as we have been asking for years in this Parliament, to allow us to exercise our parliamentary oversight over the mandate of our representatives at the World Bank. This is not the case, with the result that we suffer a lot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u6	Minister, there is a humanitarian catastrophe in Idlib. Citizens are endorsed by military actions by Syria and Russia. People are running away. Undoubtedly many of us have seen the images of children in search of safety, freezing to death in the cold. Then a human being, a politician, wonders: what can we do about it; we can do something about it. It makes sense, then, that he or she should be overwhelmed with a sense of powerlessness. However, the good news is that the border crossings between Turkey and Syria are open to emergency humanitarian aid. In January, 1,227 trucks of emergency aid crossed the Syrian border. We must be aware that every euro of emergency humanitarian aid that we can provide to Syria is well spent and ends up correctly with whom it needs. The bad news is it's not enough. In their report, the United Nations states that 900,000 Syrians have fled since December 2019, including 60% of children. The military offensive continues. The UN therefore calls for an additional new contribution of USD 336 million to deal with the emergency situation. Belgium has not yet responded to that question, but the Green Group is asking for a positive response today. After all, what is our indignation worth if we cannot turn it into action? As President of the UN Security Council, it is not a question of simply dismissing the UN's plea. Our country has an exemplary role and is perfectly capable of doing this exemplary role. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u7	There is a great deal of interest in development cooperation today, and that is right. The situation in Syria is particularly dramatic. Since the war broke out in 2011, it's never been worse. We invest more in humanitarian aid than ever before: in 2019 it was EUR 170 million. I would like to reply to your question with two points. As regards the financing of humanitarian aid, I will propose to the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks to release an additional EUR 7 million from the humanitarian aid budget. This money is intended for the Syrian Cross-border Fund, which is managed by the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) of the UN and which focuses specifically on this issue. That amount is higher than the 17 million euros that we make available each year for the Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) of the OCHA. The second element is the political aspect of this. We won't solve the problem by just offering help. We must also dare to raise the issue politically. You have said that this month our country is chairman of the UN Security Council. Next week, a meeting of the Security Council will discuss the specific report on the humanitarian corridors, which will be presented at the request of Belgium and Germany. I decided to attend the Security Council meeting myself for one day next week, so that I could personally chair it and give the necessary weight to the report and to the debate so that a humanitarian corridor could indeed be established. This makes it possible for people on the run to distinguish between danger for their own lives and exposure to violence, on the one hand, and to escape a situation of insecurity in a safe way, on the other. I want Belgium to be absolutely able to play its part. I hope that the Security Council will be able to give the necessary weight to this debate in order to find a solution for millions of people in extreme need.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u8	Minister, today the UN has just published a new warning that the crisis is affecting more than a million Syrians. You're right. We must try to take diplomatic initiatives to address the causes of that humanitarian crisis. The first objective must be to achieve a ceasefire in the region as soon as possible. Bringing parties around the table is what we have to do. I look at our country to take an initiative in this. Last week I also had the debate on this with the Foreign Minister, Mr Goffin, in committee. As long as it is not there, it is also Belgium's responsibility to ensure that food, tents, shelters, heaters, medicines are delivered, so that children no longer freeze to death in search of safety. Our group is satisfied with your commitment to make an extra effort towards the UN humanitarian emergency plan in Syria. It is a good thing that our country, as President of the UN Security Council, takes this extra responsibility. Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u9	Mr President, Minister, two out of three adult Belgians play a gambling game at least once a year. Research shows that 5.2 % of that group are problematic or risky players. That's huge. That group itself indicates that advertising is the trigger to go online and open a bet. This is a very good illustration of the problem and also shows how hard and how big the impact of advertising on risk players is. Minister, you have tried to tighten up the rules on advertising. You tried. However, you have also made a division from the outset between those for whom the rules would be applied very strictly and those for whom they were not. We wouldn't have done that. You have allowed an exception for sports betting, which my sp.a fraction has been very hard on from the beginning. After all, we are convinced that a ban on advertising should apply to everyone. You have not followed our arguments on this point. What we expected has also happened. The Council of State has destroyed the article in question on the basis of the principle of equality. The result or result is that nothing has changed at all. You yourself say you regret that the stricter rules are being watered down again, because you know how big the problem is and because you know how big the impact of advertising on the risk players is. Why did you allow an exception? Why didn't you introduce a general ban on advertising? I think it is not too late, Minister. I have two questions for you. First of all, I can tell from the coverage that yesterday there was a meeting with the Game Commission. What came out of that meeting? Secondly, when will you finally work on a total ban on advertising?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u10	Mr President, Mrs Depraetere, thank you for your question. Firstly, a total ban on advertising requires a parliamentary majority. If you can find that majority, it will approve that measure, as is the case in many cases in Parliament, especially today. Secondly, we have tried to adapt the legislation as far as possible to combat detestable addiction behaviour. The Council of State has delivered two judgments on this matter. Those judgments state that bonuses may no longer be offered. Not only advertising should no longer be allowed, but bonuses should no longer be allowed. In my view, that is the meaning of these two judgments, which makes the gaming legislation stricter than originally envisaged. So the Council of State has gone your way. Perhaps you should thank the Council of State for that. Yesterday, the Gaming Commission approved an information note in which it indicated that it would check compliance with the judgment. That, too, is what you ask and what you like, I think. As far as advertising is concerned, according to the Council of State, the different rules are a violation of the principle of equality. It cannot be demonstrated that they appeal to a completely different clientele. In our view, the ratio of stricter advertising rules was not to appeal to different clients, but to the addictive nature. Anyway, the Council of State has spoken. We thought online casino games and online slot machines are very addictive. To be honest, I regret that the Council of State does not allow stricter rules for these types of gambling. The Council of State did not follow me in this respect. However, I would like to stress that the rules on advertising continue to apply to licence holders of online casinos, online slot machines and online betting, with the exception that the first two licence holders are now allowed to advertise outside their own website. Mrs Depraetere, you know my personal idea of advertising games of chance. We must make further progress in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u11	Mr President, Minister, it is true that a parliamentary majority is needed to introduce a total ban, but it has been there for four years. You have had the opportunity to do so for four years, and unfortunately that has not happened. We have tabled a proposal to the Committee on Justice. I call on everyone to do this. The importance for the players with a risk problem is incredibly great.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u12	Mr President, Minister, the Mons Communal Council is currently discussing the extension of municipal administrative sanctions. He wishes to extend them to offences such as theft and beatings. Clearly, this decision is justified by the lack of staff at the judicial level. In this case, I do not want to blame the public prosecutors who ask that the municipalities be able to deal with these offences. I do not want to blame the municipalities who do not, of course, want these offences to go unpunished. But of course this raises a number of questions. I know that it is absolutely legal, that the law on administrative sanctions allows this transfer. However, this raises a number of questions, particularly as regards the rights of the defence, but also as regards the place that the victim may have in this procedure. Of course, it is not easy for a victim who has been beaten to think that, depending on the municipality in which he or she is located, he or she would or would not be restored to his or her rights. It is not easy for a victim to say that impunity could prevail because there is not the same application of administrative sanctions throughout the country. Minister, what is your reaction to this extension, to this transfer of powers? Is it not your concern, simply in terms of the proper administration of justice? Of course, you must be concerned about this, especially because of the lack of staff. Should we exhaust all the possibilities that the law offers to reach the last carat, simply because there is a lack of judges and justice is lacking?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u13	Mr President, Mrs Matz, I reply first to your last point, which I can only contradict. In our little kingdom, which is great in his mind, there is nothing nowadays that cannot be done because there are not enough means. This has nothing to do with the means. I say this with great conviction, because this kind of protocol, between the administrative authorities and the prosecutor's office, exists in many jurisdictions, both in the north and in the south of the country, where it is much easier to recruit magistrates than in the Mons-Tournai district. Everyone knows, and you should also know, that we have a serious problem finding magistrates in the province of Luxembourg and in the district of Mons-Tournai. There are many reasons, and I am not going to address them. But you can guess them. This has nothing to do with the desire of the Ministry of Justice or the Supreme Council to recruit magistrates for these places. In this case, the only thing I can tell you is that these protocols for simple theft between the administrative authorities and the prosecutor's office are concluded throughout the country, provided that the financial interest is less than 250 euros, and that in case of recidivism, in any case, the prosecution is criminal. Impunity is not applied. On the contrary, we increase the chances of being punished not to overload all the public prosecutor's offices. This is also the case where the public prosecutor's offices are fully filled and the framework is complete. Recidivism is obviously punished. Mons has the largest number of prosecutors in the country, after Brussels, to fill this gap in the judiciary. We can't recruit enough of them. But we've been doing our best for four years, and the judiciary knows that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u14	Minister, I can only contradict you, too. If this is not a problem of means, I wonder, objectively, what it is! It is, however, what is widely mentioned in the press that relays this information. Of course, you consider these to be lighter offences. But for the victim, beatings or theft are not minor offences. The victim's place in these proceedings should be considered as a whole. These procedures are normally used to further punish the perpetrators. Of course. However, this raises a number of questions. I believe that the lack of resources remains the crucial problem. You said the floors were saturated. If they're saturated, they don't know how to carry out all their missions, including those.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I know that you have already had the opportunity to address in committee this terrible – I don't like to say "do anything different", because it is much more serious – and another act of aggression against a young woman last Thursday, who was stabbed. Fortunately, the author is now in the hands of justice. The thorny question we all ask ourselves is: when are we finally going to listen to the victims when they file their complaint? These acts of harassment and endangerment of the life of this person had occurred six months ago. Why did the signals not sound on the side of the police and justice, so they should have realized that they were facing someone dangerous? We know that prosecutors are busy examining an instrument to detect the danger of an alleged perpetrator. It was the Attorney General De Valkeneer who informed us of this procedure to prevent the act of someone who has multiplied several threatening acts. Therefore, Minister, I would like you to confirm that this tool can be quickly applied by the public prosecutor's office. Will the whole country be involved or will it only be pilot projects? What are the means of this work of appreciation? How has this instrument been developed? This seems essential to me if we are to detect domestic violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Matz, I think that the Attorney General De Valkeneer answered the questions raised on this subject by the members of the Committee on Justice a few months ago. With regard to sexual violence, it is true that the Office of the Attorney-General of Liège, together with the network of experts, has developed a risk assessment tool called "Criminality against persons"; it is in the process of finalisation and will be the subject of a circular in April. During the general prosecutor's meeting, which I will be attending in a few moments, I will certainly ask if the deadline will be reached. In any case, I refer you to the report of the Committee on Justice of 20 November. In addition, I can refer to the pilot project developed in Ghent, deployed primarily in the district of that city, which focuses on the harassment alarm button. This tool was also explained in the Justice Committee by the chief of the Gonese zonal police. The situation of endangering the victim is also mapped and discussed at an ad hoc meeting. More generally, I refer you to the action plan against sexual violence against women that was developed on my initiative and is being discussed with the relevant community and regional ministers. This morning, another consultation was held, again on my initiative, between the offices of the Communities, Equal Opportunities and Justice on the various aspects of sexual violence against women. This action plan serves as a stepping stone in the fight against sexual violence. It is shared with the new Interministerial Conference on Women's Rights and will soon be discussed in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answer. My question specifically concerned the procedure for assessing the danger that you mentioned, just as the prosecutor had done in the introduction of his hearing in the Committee on Justice. I wanted to know when this tool will be operational. In my view, this is an essential tool in the fight against domestic violence. If it is implemented in April, I can only congratulate myself on that, but it will still have to be implemented and the judges trained to implement it. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that in order to understand the danger of an individual, it is not only necessary to train a single magistrate at the prosecutor's office; the training of several magistrates is necessary. In any event, I hope that ways can be found to ensure the implementation of this tool, which is the very essence of detecting the danger of a possible author.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u18	Mr President, Minister, I am standing before you again with red figures. Red is not only the color of the Walloon je-m'en errorism in the budgets of the parties here behind me, it is also the color of the growth and deficit forecasts in this country. The European Commission was rightly, for the umpteenth time, devastating in its report on our country. Belgium is, after Italy, the slowest growth in the euro area. The National Bank, how could it be otherwise, also produced dramatic figures on the deficit in the budget. This deficit is getting completely out of hand, slowly towards 3%. We are once again the worst student of the class in Europe, except for one country - you can guess three times - Italy. No one in the euro area is doing worse than Belgium and Italy. A tie with Italy, before which perhaps we would sign with both hands when it comes to football, but not when it comes to economic growth and the hole in the State treasury, not when it comes to maladministration and inability to govern. Let that be the biggest resemblance between Belgium and Italy. Our country is drifting around in a sea of political unwillingness and public indifference. Belgium is becoming a little more Italy on the North Sea every day, including all economic and budgetary problems. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What is the government's response to these alarming figures? What opportunities do you see in ongoing cases to stimulate growth and reduce the deficit?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u19	Mr President, Mr Vermeersch, your question consists of two different aspects: on the one hand, the European Commission's forecast of growth and on the other, the estimates of the budget deficit in the annual report of the National Bank of Belgium. For the first aspect, the European Commission has estimated a growth rate of 1.2 % for Belgium in 2020, following a growth rate of 1.4 % in 2019. The estimate of the growth of Belgian GDP by the Federal Planning Bureau is the same as in 2019. In both cases, growth remains positive and above or equal to the euro area average. I would also draw your attention to the fact that the three institutions, the Federal Planning Office, the European Commission and the National Bank, note that there is an increase in purchasing power. As regards the second aspect of your question, I am fully aware of the deterioration of the budget deficit in 2019 and 2020. For 2019, the FPS BoSa estimates the nominal deficit to be 1,8 %. Although the Belgian and international institutions confirm that Belgium is more resistant than other countries, creating the conditions for the formation of a new government is the only way to cope with the expected deterioration of the budgetary situation. Fiscal measures will have to be taken to reduce the deficit and to strengthen the sustainability of public finances. As Minister for the Budget, I asked my administration to draw up a new report from the Monitoring Committee to measure the concrete impact of these new macroeconomic estimates. This makes it possible to fully objectiveise the situation of public finances. That report is expected in the first half of March.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u20	So, Minister, the policy you are proposing is, in the end, just padding and keeping it wet. According to the Court of Auditors, the budget is so sloppy that some items are wrong to EUR 25 billion. The tax burden in this country is at the highest in the world and 70% of the taxes are paid by the Flemings. In the meantime, government property, the wealth swallowed up by the state, has risen to a hallucinating 55%. For corporate tax, the tax shift and the securities tax, the figures were patched up with tricks of the foor and a lot of art and flying skills. The gap in the budget is enormous and is completely out of control. Together with Italy, we have guided the worst students of the European class across the board. Political history will eventually show that we, Flemish nationalists, do not burst Belgium, that you do with the traditional parties in our place, day in, day out, by standstill, non-policy, bad management and malpractice. After us deluge him , after us the flood.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u21	Minister, five years ago, your predecessor, Mr.Jambon, inaugurated security gates at Zaventem Airport. These were new-generation porticoes, performed by facial recognition, which had cost the taxpayer the €2.4 million bagatelle. Of course, safety has a price, and probably it had to be done, but at least it could be expected that these portals would be effective. However, since the second day of their installation and during these five years, there have been a number of defects. In addition, it has recently been reported that the federal police have announced that these gates will be replaced. This pisses off the police unions, who tell us about wasting public money! Minister, do you confirm the information of the federal police that these gates will be replaced? If so, after what evaluation was this decision made? When will this replacement take place and at what cost? Has a public procurement been launched for this replacement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u22	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it was recently announced that the e-gates at Zaventem airport would disappear. They were, as it were, the key to the security of our national airport as a result of the attacks. The previous Minister of the Interior was rightly proud of the system. One could be scanned in this way, then a match followed with the identity card and then one could enter the security zone. This was good for safety and it saved the number of employees. They could then be deployed at other locations in the airport. Unfortunately, those gates have worked with difficulty in five years. An amount of EUR 2.4 million was spent almost for nothing. There were no less, but more agents needed: they had to deal more with the faulty gates than checking the people who had to get through. Serious questions arise with the chosen system and with the company that installed this system. There is now a improvement: a new system is being chosen which will not only be rolled out in Zaventem, but also in Charleroi and the high-speed train in Brussels-South. Minister, is there any tender procedure for the new system? Could you explain it a little more? Were precautions taken not to be confronted with a difficult system again? As far as the tendering procedure for the previous system is concerned, that firm is getting rid of it very cheaply. The federal government has failed her, but are there any prospects of recovering the 2.4 million euros? In short, how does one deal with the company with which they worked?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u23	Mr President, Minister, the press has echoed the resounding failure of security portals at Brussels-National Airport. Invoice of this magisterial flop for the public authorities: 2.4 million euros! While these wonders of technology have shown their inefficiency, police unions are also pulling the alarm bell. The airport police are abandoned, she tells us, by its supervisory power and, according to my information, it is at least 80 people who are missing at the Brussels-National airport to carry out all their tasks. Not a euro of investment in basic equipment! No even chair for officers who spend the whole day in border control and no progress with regard to buildings for the installation of services. The national airport is not the only one concerned, as the lack of a medium-term vision raises serious concerns for the future security of regional airports. Minister, the agents have had enough. We understand them. They play an essential role in protecting access to our territory. They deserve to be respected and heard. Minister, your colleague, Minister Jambon, announced in 2016 200 aspirants inspectors for the various airport police. Today, at least 80 are missing. Where are they? How are you going to mobilize them as quickly as possible? What about equipment investments? What about the premises to accommodate the airport police services? Do you confirm the cost of failure of automatic portals? Finally, what steps will you take to renew social dialogue and meet the legitimate demands of airport police officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u24	As for the problem of the strike, I will have the opportunity to answer you in a later question this afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, the security system installed at the Brussels-National airport is only partially working. After its implementation in the summer of 2015 – a decision taken by my predecessor – the difficulties were first at the level of Belgian identity cards. Then the problem of portals was added. To remedy this, a rapid response system was put in place with an airport police team. After several attempts, the ID card reader was disconnected and successive software problems appeared. Mr Demon, the current system and the maintenance contract were retained after a number of rebootings. The devices are still being used. The way in which they now work, by digitally reading the passports, still generates a capacity gain for border controls in themselves. I would like to emphasise that. Passenger identity data can also be checked more quickly. Nevertheless, I would ask the General Inspectorate of the Police to open an investigation into the e-gates purchase file. There are currently 24 portals, which cost 70,000 euros a coin. In addition, 75% of the amount was subsidized by a European Union research and innovation programme. The remaining 25% are covered by the Federal Police and Brussels Airport Company. The maintenance contract we are talking about ends in 2021. This means that we will have to take a new option. In the meantime, we're not sitting still. New equipment has been purchased, which will be more efficient and performant and comply with the new European rules on entry and exit. The new system will be operational from 2022 onwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u25	Minister, I think we can welcome the initiative you are taking to request an investigation from the General Inspectorate of the Police into this procurement file. Whether it's European money or Belgian money, it's still money from the taxpayer who is entitled to expect it to be spent properly. I hope that we will all learn from our mistakes and that, even if security is priceless, we will be able to realize that it still has a cost that needs to be assessed as closely as possible. Thank you in advance for your follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased to hear that you will be requesting an inquiry from the General Inspectorate. It is also good that a new system is being put in place by 2022. Both travelers and staff deserve the safest and best system. After all, it was a good way to control. It will be postponed, but I hope it will be on track in 2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. The requested investigation can be valued for its value, but during the previous legislature staff budgets were cut and the necessary infrastructure was not put in place to enable it to work in decent conditions. We spend $2.4 million on projects that prove to be ineffective and that we end up giving up! Police officers are workers who must be respected. We ask you to find solutions following the 80 missing agents in Zaventem and the problems of infrastructure and basic equipment. These solutions must be part of a medium-term vision so that today's problems in Brussels-National do not occur at regional airports tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u28	Mr President, Minister, it is incomprehensible that in our country it is possible to escape from a prison simply by climbing over the prison wall. It is equally incomprehensible that it will then take 21 hours for the escapee to end internationally. Speed and flow of information between police forces is extremely important at such times, so that anyone who needs to be aware is alerted. The escaped prisoner took the plane to Thailand to flee. If the police were informed in good time, they could act correctly and apprehend the person because he was locked up. Friends, I don't have to convince you of the importance of that signaling, do I? In 2015, after the attack in Paris, terrorist Salah Abdeslam drove back to our country. Along the way he was checked several times, but because he was badly placed, he could drive quietly each time. I certainly do not need to remind you of the drama that followed in our country. In the Committee of Inquiry we have spent a great deal of time on signaling and the flow of information. Everyone agreed unanimously that this must be done quickly and better. Today, so many years later, however, I have to read that again an important signal has been waiting for a very long time. I don't understand. Mr. Secretary, how the hell is that possible? How come the FAST team didn't get shot into action the same night, but waited for the local police? How come the court didn't take action the same night by asking for a European arrest warrant?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u29	Minister, two months ago, some very dangerous gangsters escaped from Turnhout prison. They weren't choir boys, they were very infamous drug dealers and violent bombers. The question is, how did this happen? No, I won't point an accusing finger at the police and the guards. On the contrary. This dossier once again exposes a number of bottlenecks in the area of Justice and Home Affairs in a very painful way. It is 2020, Minister, and the signalling system is still not on the right track. There are still serious criminals who can escape from a number of prisons because the surveillance system does not work properly and because there are blind spots in that system. This is yet another illustration of a lack of resources, mainly in the case of the Justice Department, in order to fully secure our prisons so that serious criminals cannot escape. I do not know if you know the situation in Turnhout, Minister, but that is absolutely not the case. There is a lack of resources to attract enough guards, with an attractive statute, so that the framework is finally fully filled and there is sufficient manpower in prisons to supervise. There is a lack of resources in the area of justice and home affairs to set up a system for the escape of serious criminals that immediately signals the escaped gangsters, not only locally but also nationally, Europeanly and internationally. There must be sufficient resources for this, Minister. That still hasn't happened. My question is therefore: is the government prepared to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u30	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if a prisoner escapes our country, the procedure is that the prison informs the local police, which sends out a national signal. Once that national signal has been issued, the magistrate of guard will be notified and he will be asked to issue a European arrest warrant. That's the normal procedure. Once this has been done, the CGI, the Executive Board of the international police cooperation of the police, will also be notified and an international signal will also be sent. That's how it's usually done. So there's nothing wrong with the procedure. That is a very simple, step-by-step procedure. However, we read in Het Laatste Nieuws that some things have gone wrong in the application of this procedure. For example, I would say 'would', because it comes from the press, the local police have waited three hours to give a national signal and would have waited until the day after to call the magistrate, who would have waited until the end of the working day to issue the arrest mandate effectively. I have some very simple questions about this, Minister. Can you clarify exactly what happened? Are you willing to put the General Inspection on this file? If mistakes appear to have been made, are you prepared to look with Mr Geens to see how the procedure could possibly be improved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u31	Minister, the situation has already been outlined by my colleagues: on 19 December, a number of criminals escaped in Turnhout. One of them was Oualid Sekkaki, the younger brother of the well-known Ashraf Sekkaki, who had escaped before. Apparently, escaping is in the family there. It could be thought that the police and the justice system are making two teeth in an escape and that they are doing everything they can to put the criminals back in jail. Escape is every minute, every 15 minutes. Sekkaki, however, had seas of time to cross the Belgian border, to leave Europe and to travel to Thailand or surroundings. That is unacceptable. Such an escape always affects the sense of security and also creates the perception that the federal government cannot carry out one of its core tasks, namely guaranteeing security. I have the following questions for you, Minister. How is it that it has taken so long for the police and the police to respond and have passed to Sekkaki's national, European and international signals? Is that an average or has it deviated from the normal procedure here? What is it to blame that it was so slow? What can be done to avoid such matters in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions. I propose that the discussion on additional resources for both the police and the judiciary should be dealt with in a committee meeting. I will tell you a chronology of the facts, as you asked. The Minister of Justice and I took note with great surprise of an article in the press which, first and foremost, did not respect the secret of the investigation. Having said that, the guidelines relating to the signaling of escaped detainees are contained in a joint circular from the Justice and Home Affairs Ministers and from the College of Attorneys General. These directives are very clear on how these kinds of signals should be carried out, both at national and international level. The procedure for a signal is that the local unit sends an order to the Executive Board of the international police cooperation of the federal police, which carries out this signal. Within this management there is a Single Point of Operational Contact that can perform it permanently. The Turnhout police area, Mrs Dillen, which I know is well-known, as well as the positive performance of its services, has immediately started the necessary searches and subsequently made the requirement for a national alert. In addition, a European arrest warrant was issued by the competent magistrate on this description the next day. This signal was also immediately carried out by the police. At the time of his escape, however, Sekkaki had already been reported to Interpol for previous facts, with the measure of immediate arrest. So if the police found him immediately after his escape, he would be arrested in any way and anywhere. To conclude, all Belgian police forces are always in increased readiness, with any escape and certainly in this case, to apply what is legally determined immediately and they would have done so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u33	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You say that he was already cut off by previous penalties he had received, but it should not depend on that. This is a weak answer. The signal for this fact has taken a long time and we must not forget to say that, fortunately, he was already in favour of something else. If there are any faults with the signaling and it has actually taken 21 hours before it took place, I hope that urgent measures will be taken so that we can ensure real security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u34	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Just so we're clear, I wasn't talking about the Turnhout police, I was talking about the prison. We must ask ourselves whether criminals of such a heavy allure should be imprisoned there, but that is not your responsibility. It is a fact that with this news, which has been taken over in newspapers worldwide, our country has really made a mockery of itself, due to the fault of these and the previous governments, and then mainly in the justice department. This government urgently needs to mobilise more resources. We should not continue to refer to discussions in a committee. Everyone who deals with the case of Justice is already convinced of that. It was also repeatedly charged. As long as that does not happen, such escapes will remain possible and the gangsters will laugh in the face at the people, especially the guards and the police. Witnessed the ticket Sekkaki sent to prison from Thailand, which is particularly painful for the police and the guards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u35	Mr President, Minister, unfortunately you did not answer all the questions. I asked, among other things, if you were prepared to have the General Inspectorate investigate what went wrong. Sekkaki had been evicted since 2017 from Morocco. So he probably didn't take a plane, but that doesn't mean he couldn't jump on a bus to wander around somewhere in Europe. It is unacceptable that someone can escape and that it takes a very long time. I would ask you to follow this up further and certainly to involve the General Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u36	I will!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We have to do everything we can to avoid escapes. Escape from prison must not be allowed to happen unpunished. That is why Mr Gabriels has tabled a bill to finally criminalise escape from prison. It's a shame the Justice Minister isn't here anymore. We must dare to ask ourselves whether it is normal that the extradition procedure to Morocco should take more than two years, as was the case with Mr Sekkaki. If he had been extradited to Morocco, we would not be here today to ask these questions and Mr Sekkaki would have been in Morocco for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u38	Mr President, Minister, we have learned that union actions should be carried out very soon within the aviation police. The discontent of the police seems to be focused on two points: the lack of staff and the continuing lack of resources. A consultation took place on Wednesday, but apparently did not produce the expected results even though trade unions and management have been negotiating for a long time, several weeks at least, on this issue of shortage of staff and resources. We're talking about a deficit of 140 police officers. Neither the date of the planned actions nor their nature are specified and possible strikes of zeal at border control points are mentioned. Minister, what is the status of the aviation police? What progress was proposed with regard to the alleged lack of staff and resources? Do you know more about the possible social movements announced, their nature or the date of their implementation? Finally, since the airport police are responsible for controls and surveillance at the external borders of the six Schengen airports in Belgium, are these movements likely to impact airports?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u39	Mr President, Mr Pivin, the notice of strike has been the subject of intense negotiations over the last three weeks, which I strongly insisted on. However, to date, they have not reached an agreement. The main reason is the lack of reinforcements requested at the staffing level and the lack of infrastructure to carry out border controls. In 2015, my predecessor announced that the staffing framework would increase from 435 to 534 staff, a commitment that has never materialized. The airport police force currently has some 400 staff. The current staff status, however, does not allow for the mere appointment of individuals to fill the shortage so quickly. I have repeatedly asked the Commissioner-General to resolve the problem as quickly as possible for the next holiday periods during which departures will increase, and I intend to reiterate my request. I will continue to work with the unions to find a permanent and substantial solution, in close collaboration with BIAC for the very important infrastructure component. One of the measures proposed is to recruit some 600 additional officers from the federal police budget. Brussels Airport Company, which has always been involved in the consultation process, has also promised considerable improvements in the layout of the premises. Finally, I would like to point out that airport police have always been a valued, loyal and reliable partner. I hope, therefore, that his actions will cause the least possible inconvenience to the many travellers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u40	Minister, thank you for the answers you have given us. The essential thing is, of course, that solutions are found to the concerns of police officers, whatever their duties. Minister, I can only count on you to implement quickly the measures that will improve the quality of their work and the effectiveness of their missions and avoid a movement that would be detrimental to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u41	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this Tuesday we learned with horror that twelve people linked to the German far right had been arrested because they were planning attacks on mosques throughout Germany. Last night, the fear left room for horror, caused by an attack which had already resulted in nine deaths and five serious injuries in bars near Frankfurt. Here again, the first elements of the investigation seem to converge towards the far right as ideological motivation of the perpetrators – terrorists. Here I want to express our solidarity with the victims, their families, the wounded, the German people and all those in this country who defend their democracy against the far right in all its forms. Utoya, Christchurch, El Paso and, today, Hanau: the list of attacks perpetrated by the far right throughout the world, which is also that of the victims of this deaf and blind hatred, continues to grow. Each new attack seems to fuel the following actions. The mourning and solidarity that we share with the victims and communities targeted by these heinous attacks must also be manifested through action in our own country. In 2018, Geens noted that the violent far right was also a threat in our country. At least one group – of which a founder is present in this assembly – has been known for two years thanks to a report by the RTBF, encourages its members to be ready to fight, to obtain licences to carry weapons, to attend shooting stands, and I pass it. These facts confirm the words of the then Minister of Justice: there are groups in our country that drink from the same ideological sources as the German terrorists who struck yesterday. Mr Minister, have the events in Germany received special attention from the Belgian security services? Has the alert level been revised? What measures are being taken by the OCAM and the competent services to dismantle the far-right networks in Belgium? What initiatives are you going to take to improve the legislative arsenal in our country in order to combat the spread of far-right ideas that fuel the horrific acts that struck Germany yesterday?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u42	Minister, in Hanau, Germany, four hours away from here, a terrorist attack killed nine people, who fell under the bullets of the far right. I recall that the author does not hide from it, since he had already sent racist messages and videos. In addition, he even wrote a 24-page manifesto in which he indicated that he wanted "ethnic cleansing" in Germany. First of all, I would like to express my condolences and solidarity to the families of the victims. That said, this attack does not fall from the sky, minister. This attack is not just the act of an isolated madman. It is the consequence and expression of an ideology emerging from the far right that is only rising in Europe, as is also the case in our country. It is the expression of the banality of the extreme right and its ideas that directly brings this kind of horror. Minister, I myself have suffered racism and I see the rise of racist and far-right ideas. I feel that I have to be more and more justified to be here when I am a Belgian citizen. My life is here. These condemnations and attacks are only growing and threatening our people. These ideas are propagated by a party that sits in our Chamber, by the Vlaams Belang who, through his speech, encourages this racist ideology of the far right. Minister, I would like to point out that racism and the speech of the far right are not just an opinion as we are trying to make it seem. This is not an opinion among others. It's a crime that leads to murder. The attacks, last night, proved it to us again. Mr Minister, are there any concrete measures to combat the rise of the far right? Is there an action plan to counter them in social media? What are the assessments of a possible far-right attack in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to strongly condemn these cowardly attacks and to express my deepest sympathy to the victims and their loved ones, to the families and to the entire German people. Based on the information available, the OCAM immediately conducted a threat analysis and the Crisis Centre decided to maintain the current level of security. There is no demonstrable link with our country or any element that might prompt us to adapt the current level of threat. It is still too early to make statements about the author and his motives. The German investigation will have to shed light on this case. I am in constant contact with the Bundeskriminalamt and my German counterpart. The terrorist or extremist threat emanating from the far right mainly concerns attacks by lone wolves, as the many examples abroad unfortunately still show. Cases of extreme right-wing terrorism, all extremes and radicalism are treated with the same intensity as other terrorist phenomena, with both a prevention component, through radicalism, and a judicial component, under the leadership of the federal prosecutor. Both local task forces and local integral security cells have a role to play in this regard. Gentlemen, you will see, like me, that our services have analysed the situation in real time and are following it very closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answers. I can only associate with you to address our thoughts to the families of the victims and to the injured. It is useful and necessary to recall here that our democracy cannot leave any room for blind hatred and violence carried by the far right. As such, surveillance and repressive action – when necessary – also go back to developing effective policies to combat the causes of the rise of the far right, violent radicalisation and all the consequences that they generate. Already in 2016, the PS group proposed to put in place a national action plan against racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and intolerance. The proposal is now being actively brought forward by my colleague Mrs Özen. Minister, I invite you to make these objectives and the fight against hatred a top priority in order to fight on all fronts all those who divide our society, those who spread hatred, those who prioritize men among themselves in order to legitimize their acts of violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u45	Minister, your answer is worrying. You say that there is no link while in the State Security Report 2017-2018, it is said that the extreme right must be taken seriously. It is also said that the far right is neglected and trivialized in our country, which means that it is normalized. Mr Geens himself said that attacks by radicalised right-wing extremists were not to be excluded in Belgium. And you tell us that there is no connection with what is happening in Germany! This response is disturbing. You must ask yourself what concrete measures are in place to combat and prevent such a disaster from happening again in Belgium. This is your duty, Minister. The rise of the far right is European today and the struggle must be waged everywhere. This hate speech leads to murder. Divisional speeches lead to murder. We must fight these speeches to avoid such disasters and not to promote them, as we do in our country!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u46	Mr President, Minister, our health budget is not intended to pay back religious choices. It seems to me that there is very little to be gained from this statement. But still, families from traditional cultures sometimes want a woman to be a virgin at the time of marriage. That's what the woman has to prove by showing bloody bedding. That is medical nonsense and also extremely derogatory to the woman, but it does mean that some women have their hymen restored. The Dutch Government has decided to deal with this practice. Doctors in the Netherlands have said that they are no longer carrying out this procedure. The Dutch Government states that if it appears after verification that the operation is still being carried out, a ban will be imposed. Not like that in Belgium. In Belgium, a hymen repair operation is still possible. More than that, that operation will be repaid by the RIZIV. Such operations are covered by the nomenclature number for distribution under the name vagina and vulvaplasty. That song includes a lot of sensitive interventions that are important, such as interventions due to childbirth, burns, traumas and abscesses. A restoration operation for cultural-religious reasons does not belong in that list, just as the reimbursement of circumcision for religious reasons also has no place in our health care. In the past, I have presented this to you a number of times, but you have always disputed it. Madam Secretary, how do you view the recent decision in the Netherlands? What's your point of view? Do you think that such recovery operations deserve another place in this country, as there can never be a medical reason for that? Will you at least ensure that such operations are no longer repaid? How exactly will you do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u47	Mr President, Mrs Van Peel, for your question, you inspired a debate yesterday on Radio 1 with, among other things, Goedele Liekens. In the Netherlands an appointment has been made among doctors not to perform so-called hymen surgery anymore, but the story is more nuanced. A representative of the Dutch Association for Obstetrie and Gynaecology says that the essence does not change. Doctors do not perform the procedure unless the safety of the woman is at stake. Such an intervention is not eligible for reimbursement by the RIZIV in our country, because there is indeed no medical need. However, it is not possible, on the basis of a clinical trial, to certify with certainty that a person never had sex. In addition to this purely medical consideration, the emphasis should also be placed on the ethical and ethical aspects of that practice. It is not 100 % to exclude that doctors who perform the procedure use a different nomenclature number, such as the nomenclature number for vulvaplasty, but this is actually about fraud. Then there should be some sort of control of young women undergoing surgery on the vulva. We still have to look at how we could organise this control. There is still no solution in the Netherlands either, because one must of course respect the privacy and personal intimacy of the persons involved. The World Health Organization and the Belgian Order of Doctors have already expressed their opinion on medical examinations in women in order to make the so-called virginity attestation. That's where the story actually begins. The National Council is of the opinion that it is not justified to answer the question of an investigation into the preparation of a certificate of virginity. The World Health Organisation also published a statement in October 2018, supported by the United Nations High Commission for Human Rights and UN Women. That declaration calls for a halt to the virginity attestations and the certificates, which are also issued in Belgium. I believe that, as Mrs Liekens also said, a ban in itself will not give us the expected result. But we certainly need to engage in the debate and convince all the actors in the field that this is not only a nonsensical intervention but also an unnecessary risk to the women concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u48	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You are going along very hard with this in the logic that this practice does not belong in health care. You're right. This procedure can't have any medical reasons. In circumcision, it's different. You haven't talked about that right now. I've questioned you about that a few times in the past. Apart from the fact that it is happening, it cannot be that we continue to repay circumcisions for religious reasons. That it happens for circumcisions for medical reasons, I have no problem with that. You never wanted to go along with that story in the past. Now that I hear about this, I hope you will support our bill to ensure that refunds for operations for religious reasons disappear from our healthcare system. I repeat my first sentence: our health budget is not there to pay back religious choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u49	Minister, EUR 1.131.78 is what is being given here in Belgium to pensioners who have an income guarantee. At the same time, more than 200 billion euros simply fly to tax havens. Then the question arises as to who is to be controlled here in our country. Well, Mr Bacquelaine has chosen, the Liberals have chosen. Who's being checked? Those are the pensioners. Well, that's a shame. How are these people controlled? By the postmen. The postmen used to be the symbol of a nice chat for pensioners. They could have a cup of coffee with them and give them some warmth. However, ladies and gentlemen, today these postmen become inspectors who have to check whether the elderly are at home. They're gonna have to ring the bell for that. Colleagues, does anyone here in the room know how many seconds those postmen get for such a checkup? They get 80 seconds for that. How much time does Grandma need to get down from the second floor? 80 seconds for a check. How much time does bomba take to get out of the garden and open it? 80 seconds. Colleagues, this is a disgrace. The PVDA therefore does not accept such controls for the income guarantee. The N-VA has of course voted in favour and participates in the control of the elderly in Flanders. The elderly are bullied and nothing happens for the richer. There's no problem for the richer. Will you abolish this bullying measure, Minister, or will you continue to bully the elderly in this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u50	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this Monday, at the invitation of some 40 Flemish, Walloon, Brussels, cross-sectional and other associations, citizens, senior citizens and GRAPA beneficiaries demonstrated under your windows to challenge the new GRAPA control procedure. Listening to them, what does it mean? They're afraid they won't be present during the check. They're afraid they won't have time to answer. They're afraid of being unjustly punished. They are afraid of losing their allowances, which are below the poverty line. Minister, you have received a delegation asking you to put an end to this procedure. You've released a video to say that everything is going very well in the best of the worlds. Everything's fine, Mrs. Marquise. And it's even better than before. That's the message the video wants to carry. But, of course, this video is reductive because it omits certain realities, for example the fact that the deadlines are reduced from 21 to 5 days. There is also the fact that people over the age of 80 are systematically monitored, which was not the case before. I also recorded 69 or 80 seconds. The factors must go quickly to say that there is no one and to continue the procedure. Finally, there is a prohibition on factors to leave a passing notice during the first or second passage. All this is obviously contested and questionable by the beneficiaries and civil society. Minister, you've heard these pensioners living below the poverty line. Will you listen to them? Will you finally put an end to this control which is unfair and disproportionate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u51	Minister, this is not the first time I've been here to charge this plague measure. In our country, more than 100 000 people over the age of 65 receive an income guarantee for the elderly. For those people, that's about getting the end of the month or not. The new control procedure by postmen is totally excessive. Three times not at home, the bell not heard or late at the front door means that one has to sign up within five days. One night abroad means signing up. Over 80 means sign-in. For athletes they are doping controllers, for older people they are the postmen now, Minister. The League of Human Rights has calculated that those seniors will have less than 80 seconds to get to the front door, when the mailman rings, they have less than 80 seconds to get out of bed, get out of the seat or get in the shower, open the front door to the postman, and that in their old age. Colleagues, in our country, politicians take almost 280 days to form a government, but we expect our most vulnerable seniors to open the door to the postman in less than 80 seconds. It is not just the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, which has already asked you to put an end to this plague measure. Last Monday, the unions of bpost together with more than 40 poverty organisations and senior associations protested to ask you the same question. Mr Minister, the advice of the privacy committee was not easy either. Do you already have an answer to the objections? Are you finally prepared to suspend this excessive measure until after the evaluation and then develop a more humane procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u52	Mr Minister, since last summer there has been a new procedure to check whether people receiving an IGO are also resident in the country. That is one of the conditions. This new procedure scares a lot of people. They think they'll miss the mailman when he comes by. They also feel endorsed, because they have to prove that they live here all the time. Recently, the privacy committee also commented on the new procedure and called the way the postmen carry out the checks illegal. I have questioned you on several occasions, both in committee and in plenary. You replied that you are carrying out an evaluation which will be made available at the end of March. In the meantime, the privacy committee has issued an urgent opinion, and organisations of seniors and people in poverty are hearing from them. Last Monday you received them in your cabinet. How far do you stand with the evaluation, which is expected by the end of March? Are the poverty and senior organisations still involved? If not, do you still want to involve them? Are you currently working on a review of the control procedure? Such a review is necessary. Will you take into account the recommendations made by the various organisations last Monday? If people stay in a hospital or rehabilitation center, they also lack home control. That's what I've been telling you in the past. Are you looking for a solution to that problem? Finally, at the end of March, the evaluation will be complete and solutions will follow. But what do you do in the meantime? The privacy committee has expressed serious concerns about the current way of working. I think we need a higher gear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, indeed, the general administrator of the Federal Pension Service and my chief of staff received last Monday the representatives of the League of Human Rights and other organisations. Some 40 organisations as well as 80 demonstrators wanted to express their criticism of the new procedure for monitoring the residence of GRAPA beneficiaries. The general administrator argued that the old procedure required GRAPA beneficiaries to travel systematically to the municipality to complete a residence certificate, and that it often resulted in unjustified suspensions. She also indicated that the factors do not act as controllers, and that their role is ultimately similar to that they perform when presenting a recommended fold. The procedure will be reviewed by the social partners on 23 March, who will be on the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service. The Federal Pension Service indicates that the evaluation will be both qualitative and quantitative and will cover the period from August 2019 to January 2020. The evaluation will allow not only the impact, but also the results on the fight against fraud to be identified. Without wishing to start the substantive debate which will take place shortly in the Committee on Social Affairs, I can already tell you that 56,712 checks were carried out over the period August to December 2019, out of just over 106 000 GRAPA beneficiaries. In 75 per cent of cases, the residence certificate was handed over by bpost. These persons were therefore exempted from going to the commune to have the certificate of residence completed. I repeat that we must wait for the complete and definitive results of the evaluation to be carried out by the social partners. We must objectiveize things and, it seems to me, avoid falling into populist statements that create insecurity among the beneficiaries of GRAPA. [[Brouhahaha]] Yes, because that's right. The recipe for populism is always the same: to scare, create anxiety and distress among the most vulnerable populations, which are expressly targeted by populist and malicious intentions. I have submitted to the Federal Pension Service the comments which were communicated to me by the representatives of the associations so that they can be taken into account in the evaluation by the social partners. At the end of the evaluation, consideration will be given to whether amendments should be made, inter alia with regard to the issue raised by Mrs Lanjri in relation to the IGO beneficiaries who stayed in a rehabilitation centre or hospital. As the Federal Pension Service points out in a video it recently posted, GRAPA is not a pension but a social assistance allowance. A person 65 years of age or older who has never worked in Belgium and has therefore never contributed may claim the benefit of GRAPA if it establishes that its financial resources are less than 1,121 euros if it is isolated and 747,81 euros if it is cohabiting. Unlike pension recipients who may reside abroad, GRAPA beneficiaries must reside in Belgium. Otherwise, the regime would be open to any foreign person who, after applying for and obtaining GRAPA, could return to his country without any time limit. We must therefore be able to control this obligation to reside on Belgian territory, and I note that this obligation and the need for verification are no longer called into question by the associations we met on Monday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u54	Minister, you have decided to send the factors to monitor pensioners who benefit from GRAPA, pensioners who receive a maximum of €1,131. Imagine what it means to wait in his chair and to think that every day, I can get a bell from the mailman who will come to control if I'm here. People are scared and you live in your little minister bubble! You're here today to tell us that if people are afraid, it's because of the PTB populists! Minister, you live in such a bubble! Have you ever met one of the 56,000 pensioners checked? I don't believe it. That's not possible. Go talk to them and they'll tell you, "Yes, I'm afraid to lose my GRAPA. I'm afraid to lose my pension and I'm afraid of this control of the mailman!" Visiting the factor that has always been positive and warm in our society, the small glass or the cup of coffee that we shared, you turned them into a control. I find this really unfair and unsocial, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u55	Minister, I feel sorry for you because you're a misunderstood. Under the previous legislature, your bill, now a law, which restricted access to GRAPA, was annulled by the Constitutional Court in January 2019. A similar parliamentary initiative is rejected by the Council of State. When one does not follow your point of view, you say that one does not understand, and that the old procedure was wonderful. I don't know whether to call myself a populist or a malicious person, but I think there is a real concern. Sometimes we talk about the feeling of insecurity, which is subjective, but I think there is a real concern. Pensioners who benefit from GRAPA feel under house arrest because they are afraid, as I indicated. The Members who are in dispute are not from your point of view. Specialized associations such as the League of Human Rights or anti-poverty associations have also not understood. The Data Protection Authority also did not understand. We're going to ask him for a new opinion, so that he can be in line with what the government has decided. In fact, you understand! We understand what you're doing! These measures are always aimed at stigmatizing and punishing the weakest, pensioners and social beneficiaries. You do not understand the reality of these people, who face poverty. I think that's the reality. Unfortunately, Mr Bacquelaine, we must note that you are a misunderstood!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u56	Minister, we are not afraid of those involved; it is the senior citizens themselves who are concerned about their income and about the fact that they are not on time and have contacted us. Our group has tabled a motion for a resolution to put an end to this pure bullying and to work together with Parliament on a fairer and more humane procedure. You and your services have already had enough time to adjust the measure, but no, you prefer to make a promotional film that scares people even more. Vulnerable seniors in our country deserve better. They deserve to be treated with dignity. They should not have to worry about getting to the end of the month or getting to the front door in time, Minister. Colleagues, that is pure bullying, at the expense of the most vulnerable in our country. That's gotta stop. If we were to stalk the fraudsters, those who evade taxes in our country, and the multinationals who pay hardly any taxes, as hard as the poorest pensioners, the budget deficit would have been solved long ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u57	Minister, you will agree with me that it is not the question of whether we should check, but how we should check. It is not a question of whether we should amend the law, but of how we will amend the law, because the control procedure needs to be adapted to ensure that controls are carried out in a legal and efficient manner. In doing so, we must be tough on abuses, but soft on vulnerable seniors who have done nothing wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u58	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, once again important players in the telecommunications sector point to the risks for Belgium of not being able to take the 5G train. This morning, again, in L'Echo, the CEO of Ericsson (European equipment manufacturer) insists that with a slow deployment of 5G, the European economy will be affected in the long term. In Europe, Belgium lags behind other Member States on this issue. We can be all the more concerned about our country, Minister. Colleagues, remember: the previous delays, when 4G was deployed, allowed the United States and China at the time to be a precursor to capture and deploy technology. Europe, and in particular Belgium, may therefore make the same mistake again. You know the maxim: "Errare humanum est, perseverare diabolicum". Look at the success of Spotifiy, a Swedish company. It's no coincidence. Sweden was the first European country to have a 4G network. That's still the case on 5G. The question is therefore all the more compelling, minister, when we know that China has begun its research on 6G, when we are unable to move forward on 5G. If this continues, Belgium will be one of the last countries in the world to implement this 5G network. When we understand that 5G is a platform for innovation, which will make all companies and society evolve in a new dimension, there is something to worry about. Mr Minister, do we have an estimate of the impact on our economy, on society, on geo-strategy, of Europe's unquestionably backwardness and, for the most part, on Belgium? Are you aware of the real interest of our companies or institutions in 5G? Finally, will the solution proposed by the IBPT to sell test tapes to operators pending a political agreement really help to limit the impact of this delay on everyone, including citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u59	Mr President, Mr De Maegd, thank you for these questions. I am doing everything I can to keep Belgium at the forefront of the digital market. It is important for businesses and our fellow citizens to really invest in 5G. You also saw this morning that the IBPT issued a call for tenders for the last 4G band. There is an interest for a strong Belgian company to catch up with these frequencies. We know that we really need these frequency bands to continue to invest in 4G and, in the next step, move to 5G. He's a strong player, because it's going to cost at least 30 million euros. This shows that we continue to invest in this process. With regard to 5G, in consultation with the IBPT, it was decided that some of the frequencies for 5G would already be allocated so that operators would have elements to invest in 5G in the coming months. In addition, the gap with the rest of Europe is somewhat more than that. You also know that the auctioning of these frequencies has been blocked at the political level. For my part, I have always said that we must try to unblock the situation. In committee, a few weeks ago, I made a proposal to first objectiveize the way in which the grant is to be distributed between the Regions and the federal government. I think the breakdown is as follows: 20 or 30% for the Regions and the rest for the Federal Republic. But I proposed to reinvest that 70% directly in the 5G ecosystem. In this way, we can support companies, develop test sites, have contacts with international players to invest in 5G in Belgium and really catch up. As for security, it was discussed at European level where it was said that this toolbox would be used. We've already decided to reach a security level of four or five. The decision will take a little time and will take place at the end of March or April. For the rest, standards remain a problem for Brussels. I hope that in the coming weeks we will obtain the agreement of the Regions to deploy 5G to all regions, including Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answer. To be clear, we are confident that you are following this situation closely to mitigate the effects of this delay. Our group and I continue to advocate in this Parliament the need to move forward on these issues. We will continue to carry the 5G dossier in accordance with the precautionary health and safety principle you are talking about, but in a realistic and not fundamentalist view of this precautionary principle. Mr Minister, I really insist that we study the impact of this delay on 5G in Belgium because of the economic health of our companies. I hope I can count on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u61	Madam Secretary, the corona virus is a risk to public health, but it also has an impact on the economy. The entrepreneurs are concerned because they have to face that again. A poll by Agoria with 60 of its members representing 19,000 Belgian jobs confirms that too. Half of the respondents see production in China or the rest of Asia. Two thirds experience faults in the supply of parts and 75% will certainly see additional problems in the coming period. The main cause is the disturbed logistics chain, the freight traffic going back and forth by train and boat. The border between China and Russia is closed, which means that the trains will be removed. Ships also sail less. The impact on the ports, including for Antwerp and Zeebrugge, is therefore similar in the logistics chain. After seven years of growth in Antwerp, for the first time a decrease of 7% or 115,000 containers is expected in container traffic compared to the record year 2019. An even greater impact is expected for Zeebrugge, as a Chinese container company, COSCO, has a container terminal there. The pharmaceutical and chemical sectors are at risk of shortages. They are also very important in our economy in terms of employment, added value and GNP. We must be prepared for this and support companies that are in danger of difficulties in terms of employment, financing, production surpluses and deficits. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Do you have any more insight into the economic impact of the corona virus on our country? Which sectors are hit hardest? More importantly, what support measures can and will you take to help the companies affected? Are there any European support measures available or in preparation? Is there a general reporting point for companies for questions and information?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u62	Madam Secretary, in December 2019 the corona virus broke out in certain parts of China. The disease is already present elsewhere in the world. China is taking action against the spread of the virus. Flights shall be deleted. International companies and shops close. International fairs are cancelled. Other countries are also taking more and more additional measures. This means that the second largest economy in the world is on fire. When it rains in China, it drips into the rest of the world. The economic impact on our business is therefore beginning to become apparent. A first round question from Agoria shows that the outbreak of the corona virus is causing serious difficulties for business. This will ensure that our companies are not delivered in good time and that the flow of raw materials and semi-finished products to our country is in danger of falling silent. In addition, there will also be a problem with our Flemish companies because they are responsible for 80% of exports in this country. In addition to the economic damage and the increase in temporary unemployment, all this risks turning into an economic crisis. Madam Secretary, I believe that measures must be imposed and that our economy and our jobs must be protected. I have the following questions. When were any concrete measures taken to reduce the economic damage to our companies caused by the corona virus? Have you made a risk analysis of the coronavirus on our economy and employment? Who did you consult to discuss the problem with? To what extent did business become involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u63	Like SARS at the time, the corona virus clearly has a negative impact on the Chinese economy, in the short term and probably also in the longer term. Private consumption in China is declining in the first quarter of 2020. Industry, including the production of cars and electrical appliances, is also virtually silent in some Chinese provinces. Production sites must temporarily close the doors. Sectors such as transport, leisure and retailing are hit temporarily hard. You are right to say that this will also have a negative impact on the Belgian and global economy. After all, the Chinese economy is very much intertwined with the rest of the world. However, it is too early to measure the downward impact of the corona virus on the world economy. It is true that the World Bank has already adjusted growth expectations downwards, and the consequences for long-term interest rates are clear, including for our country. That turned out to be today. Mr Ducarme, responsible for SMEs, and I have set up a task force together. He's got two tasks. Firstly, he collects all relevant information about the impact on our Belgian companies. Secondly, he examines how the FPS Economy in this first phase can help provide information about the coronavirus to our companies. On Monday, the task force met for the first time. For the time being, I'm careful because we're only getting the first data, including from Agoria and from the business community. However, we already notice that there is an impact on tourism, catering and logistics. Those are sectors that we are now clearly keeping in touch with. The Task Force will monitor the situation week after week, assess the impact and take the necessary measures in this regard. As far as employment is concerned, measures are already planned. Companies may invoke force majeure as a result of the coronavirus. They can then place their staff in the temporary unemployment system. To date, some eight companies have made use of them. It remains a far-reaching measure: first, the entire process must stop. For the RVA it is not obvious to make the distinction, but companies can also invoke economic unemployment for their workers. They don't have to resort to force majeure for that. That's in our regular numbers. We are also looking at which companies are asking for this through economic unemployment. The system of force majeure has been extended until 31 March. It can be extended. Through the task force, we follow it closely to do this. Both Cabinets and Policy Cells follow this very closely. We are also doing this together with the business community and will consider what further measures we need to take in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u64	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. It is a good thing that there is a task force, that there is strong cooperation and that there is cooperation with the sectors and with the FPS Economy. I am also pleased that the spread of the coronavirus does not seem to go as fast as in the beginning according to flu expert Marc Van Ranst. We hope that China will be able to start up again quickly, reducing the impact of the Belgian economy. I know that entrepreneurs are fighters, but I continue to count on the government to follow this closely with us, to be accessible to the sectors in need and to take action when this is really necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u65	Madam Minister, I am less satisfied with your reply than the previous colleague. You say that today it is too early to assess the impact on our companies because the task force only met for the first time last Monday. I regret that, Madam Secretary. You are on-going, but you have to admit that you have not sufficiently assessed the economic importance of the coronavirus for our country and have, as with everything else, let this matter go. When two thirds of the companies questioned experience faults in the supply of parts to Belgium, we know that there are serious problems. You forgot to mention the production sector. What does this government do? Like a rabbit staring at a light box. You have not acted decisively, Madam Minister, and have therefore not been in favour of the problems. Explain this to the companies affected today, explain it to the many workers who are at risk of falling back on the temporary unemployment system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u66	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u67	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 February 2020, I also propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the appointment of the two Federal Ombudsmen, No. 1043/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 February 2020, I also propose to register the appointment of the two Federal Ombudsmen on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session, No. 1043/1. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u68	On 20 December 2019, I asked for the opinion of the Council of State on the amendments to the bill (Mr Patrick Prévot, Ms Sophie Thémont, Mr Christophe Lacroix, Ms Ludivine Dedonder and Ms Eliane Tillieux and Messrs. Malik Ben Achour and Ahmed Laaouej) on various provisions relating to the payment of the invoice and amending the Act of 20 December 2002 on the amicable recovery of consumer debts, No. 267/6. On 20 December 2019, I asked the Council of State for an opinion on the amendments I had received to the legislative proposal (Mr Patrick Prévot, Ms Sophie Thémont, Mr Christophe Lacroix, Mrs Ludivine Dedonder, Mrs Eliane Tillieux and Mr Malik Ben Accour and Mr Ahmed Laaouej) laying down various provisions on the payment of the invoice and amending the law of 20 December 2002 on the amicable recovery of consumer debts, No. 267/6. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 February 2020, I propose that you refer these amendments to the Committee on the Economy, Consumer Protection and the Digital Agenda. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 February 2020, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I have received an amendment to the bill (Mrs. Catherine Fonck, Karin Jiroflée and Els Van Hoof) amending, with regard to the ban on smoking by car, the Act of 22 December 2009 establishing a regulation on the protection of the population against tobacco smoke, and the Act of 24 January 1977 on the protection of the health of consumers with regard to foodstuffs and other products, No. 683/6. I have received an amendment to the bill (Mrs Catherine Fonck, Karin Jiroflée and Els Van Hoof) amending the Law of 22 December 2009 on a regime for non-smoking places and for the protection of the population against tobacco smoke and the Law of 24 January 1977 on the protection of the health of users in the field of foodstuffs and other products, No. 683/6. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 February 2020, j he proposes that this amendment be referred to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities in order to allow consideration of this amendment. (Art. 93, n° 1, Rgt) In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 February 2020, I present to you to send the amendment to the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities to discuss this amendment. (Art. 93, nr. 1, Rgt) No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u69	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Nahima Lanjri, Vincent Scourneau, Egbert Lachaert, Catherine Fonck, Nawal Farih.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u70	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Vanden Burre, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Brexit has now been finally decided. The fact that the Brexit jobs are likely to be lost is also a definite fact. We cannot ignore the fact that the UK is in the top five of our export markets, with about 8% of our exports. A relatively recent impact study conducted by the KU Leuven says that with a hard Brexit, so without a trade agreement, there is a risk of losing up to 42,000 jobs. Even in a Brexit with a trade agreement between the EU and the UK, about 10,000 jobs are still at stake. It is a fact that the UK has left the EU. Normally there will be no hard Brexit in the course of 2020. However, a quality trade agreement must be reached, and that remains a huge challenge, especially in the knowledge that Boris Johnson wants to see this done by the end of 2020 at the latest. So it may well be that the ghost of a hard Brexit reappears at the end of 2020. On the other hand, several experts point out the opportunities of a Brexit for our country. The fact that trade is subject to rules other than those currently in force is a fact. The flexibility or complexity of future rules will depend on whether or not a trade agreement is reached. However, trade will always be there, in both directions. With our ports and our expertise in non-EU international trade, we can become an even bigger gateway for trade to and from the UK. Many undoubtedly know the expression 'one should never waste a good crisis', quite translated a crisis must be taken as an opportunity and we must not abandon those opportunities. Mr Lanjri, we do not doubt that the adoption of social assistance measures in the event of a hard Brexit is necessary, but we do have some reservations about the recipes you put forward in your Brexit bill. It's all recipes that the employees put at home, with financial support from the government. This is in stark contrast to the 140,000 vacancies that we cannot fill despite all the efforts. Even with a hard Brexit, the labour market will remain tight. Despite the fact that we welcome your initiative and that you are looking ahead and despite the fact that we hope that your legislative proposal will never have to come into force, we believe that other measures were more appropriate and because with the three measures you are proposing you are actually working on inactivity with financial support from the public authorities, our group will abstain from doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u72	Mr President, the British chose sovereignly for another and perhaps better future outside the European Union. It goes without saying that our country must prepare for this Brexit and its economic and social consequences. Belgium, and especially Flanders, may be affected by this exit. Preventive measures must therefore be taken to reduce and even avoid the loss of employment. Companies must be given the opportunity and time to seek alternative markets. The present proposal has been drafted with good intentions, but I cannot get rid of the impression that it had to be pushed through in a few weeks in particular, resulting in a mass of amendments from the Legal Service of the Chamber. During the transitional period until the end of this year, however, in principle, there is no change in the export opportunities for our companies. As we have already said in committee, we would prefer to see a comprehensive and comprehensive proposal based on the existing situation. The current proposal is one-sided about what happens when it comes to a no-dealbrexit. Moreover, the legislative proposal remains vague as regards the criteria that companies must meet in order to benefit from the scheme. However, there is evidence of a loss of turnover and production of at least 5% but no definition is made of how it can be demonstrated that this is a result of Brexit and thus outside the normal fluctuations of trade. This leaves too much room for the government that will ultimately have to make the decision. This is a problem which comes back to several articles of this proposal which entrusts the practical regulation to the government of current affairs. At present, no one knows what the situation will look like at the end of this year. Once again, the spirit of this proposal is good and our country must prepare itself on the ground, also in consultation with the Länder, on all possible options. However, as agreed at European level, a transitional period began on 1 February 2020 after the departure of the United Kingdom from the EU. It is not yet known which rules will apply afterwards, because the European Union and the United Kingdom still need to negotiate further. Parliament therefore still has time to draw up detailed and realistic proposals on the basis of the agreements concluded at European level. Finally, the British have made their choice. Geographically, the United Kingdom is our closest neighbour and we have built up a good economic relationship in recent decades. It is therefore logical that we should continue to maintain this trade relationship in the future, whatever the scenario may be. A well-founded trade agreement between Flanders, Belgium and the United Kingdom is a must and something we all have to work on. It goes without saying that we cherish that good neighbour better than a distant friend. We will therefore be abstaining in the vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, after a long period of negotiations and uncertainty in the United Kingdom, the country's exit from the European Union is now taking place. Since 1 February a transitional period has begun to end at the end of this year 2020, during which time the United Kingdom and Europe should be able to lay down the terms of this disunity but, above all, lay down the bilateral rules of operation for the future. However, it should be recalled that there is a great risk that no cooperation agreement can be reached between the parties. In this context, which has been called hard Brexit, the economic and social consequences will be inevitable. Independent studies fear the loss of 42,000 jobs and a decrease in GDP of 2.35%. That is why, at the initiative of our colleague, Nahima Lanjri, we have decided to take preventive and temporary measures aimed at limiting, as far as possible, the loss of jobs, with the aim of effectively supporting our businesses in this difficult economic context that they are likely to suffer. These measures are not new; they have already been proven, particularly in 2009-2010, to limit the impact of the financial crisis or even after the attacks. First of all, they aim at the application of individual temporary unemployment of working time, which offers the possibility of reducing working hours by one fifth or one half, and secondly at the reduction or temporary suspension of collective benefits. I will not go into the exegesis of these measures. But I would like to add that all companies will be able to benefit from this measure, in particular through an amendment to include small businesses that do not have trade union representation. Of course, companies will only be able to register to benefit from these support measures if they comply with a set of pre-defined conditions and comply with the procedure for applying for recognition. I would like to point out that, with regard to the process of applying for recognition, it was decided, after a few amendments which were tabled following the social partners' hearings, that the key word would be transparency at all stages, transparency between the company, the Committee on Corporate Plans, the Minister responsible for the ONEM, the works council or the trade union delegation. In addition, the transmission of information would be carried out without delay, in a complete and transparent manner. This procedure, defined at length in the text, is intended to be very short (maximum 15 days), but very effective. Finally, a number of my colleagues have rightly questioned two points. First of all, as regards the assignment of the various leave schemes – in this respect, the replies of the Minister of Employment had the merit of making all the clarifications to the workers – with an amendment within the meaning of collective agreement 103 which will be necessary in order to guarantee legal certainty. A second point, equally important, concerns the possibility for this support scheme to be considered by Europe as State aid. We have received some reinsurance and are reassured today on this issue. I cannot, of course, finish this speech without talking about the independents. Indeed, this category of entrepreneurs has been forgotten of the measure. Through the intervention, which I would like to pay tribute to, by Denis Ducrame, we have been able to remedy this failure, in particular by means of circulars. Independents are also protected from the impact of Brexit on their activities. We have adopted three measures, namely a reduction, a carry-over without any increase or loss of rights, or even a complete exemption, of contributions in the event that these companies face serious difficulties. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we must do everything we can to minimize the impact of a hard Brexit on our economy, on our businesses and, above all, on our workers. It is a question of being cautious, preventive and responsible. As far as we are concerned, we are concerned with safeguarding employment. That is why the MR Group will support this measure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, the United Kingdom left the European Union at the end of January and, unfortunately, as long as the negotiations on the future relationship with Europe are ongoing, a hard Brexit is not entirely excluded. As long as no trade agreements have been concluded, according to the figures of the Federal Planning Bureau and the FPS Economy, the possible job losses in Belgium are estimated at 42,000 jobs. Figures from the KU Leuven show that the province of Antwerp is the most affected, with a job loss of 7,900 jobs, followed by the provinces of East Flanders and West Flanders. In particular, jobs would be lost in the food industry, the chemical industry, the textile industry and the retail trade. In order to cope with job losses, we have created a special framework through the legislative proposal before us today, providing support for companies that are victims of the Brexit. The proposal, which was developed in close cooperation with Minister Nathalie Muylle's cabinet, is based on the crisis measures introduced during the financial crisis of 2009-2011. It provides for three possible support measures for companies that can demonstrate that, as a result of Brexit, they see their turnover or their production or orders fall by at least 5%. The three measures are the extension of economic unemployment, the possibility of granting individual time credits and the introduction of collective reductions in working time. Firstly, there can be a specific system of economic unemployment for both workers and servants, in addition to the system that already exists today for workers and servants of companies in difficulty. Our proposal is that a period of eight weeks of economic unemployment can be added for workers with full suspension, and for workers with partial suspension, six months. In addition to what exists today in the normal scheme, there is the possibility of 8 additional weeks of full economic unemployment or 13 weeks of partial economic unemployment. Both workers and servants will receive an unemployment allowance and an additional daily allowance. In our bill, this amount has been adjusted to at least 5.63 euros. The sector may decide to deal with this, although it may be borne by the employer. The second measure allows workers to temporarily switch to temporary individual reductions in working time, with a special allowance to compensate for the loss of earnings. Working time can be reduced by a fifth or half in the case of full-time employment. There is also an arrangement for who works at least three-fourths. The measure will have no effect for the employee concerned on the maximum duration of his normal time loan. The employee can therefore make use of this in addition to the arrangements to which he or she is already entitled today. Thirdly, the employer may opt for a collective reduction in working time for the entire staff framework of the undertaking or for a category, e.g. a division. The employees are then regarded as full-time and are paid in the meantime, but have a collective reduction to, for example, a four-day working week. For the measure per employee and per quarter, the employer receives a RSZ discount of between 600 and 1,150 euro, depending on the size of the reduction in working time: if it remains a five-day working week, the RSZ discount is slightly less than if working time is reduced to a four-day working week. Companies that can demonstrate that they see their turnover, production or orders falling by 5% compared to one or two years ago as a result of the Brexit can therefore apply as an employer in difficulty and then rely on the three specific measures. The method of review is explained in more detail in the law. The application will have to be submitted to the Enterprise Planning Committee, which will give an opinion to the Minister for Work, who will then decide on the award. Both the opinion and the decision will have to be submitted to the workers' representatives, including the trade union delegations. In order to make use of the temporary measures, there must also be an agreement between workers' representatives. For this there are procedures in the law. Either there is a sectoral collective agreement, or there is no sectoral agreement, and a collective agreement can be reached at company level. The temporary measures may also apply to undertakings without a syndicated delegation, provided that they apply for recognition as employers in difficulty or work with a collective agreement concluded at the level of the undertaking. Both in the application and in the collective agreement it will be necessary to specify the temporary measures to be used and to show what measures will be taken to ensure maximum employment. The applications can be submitted at the same time in order to save time, because when the time comes, of course, it will also have to be done quickly. The law is a framework that is not currently being activated. If it is necessary, because there will be a hard Brexit, then the intention is to activate the law, along with the law of 3 April 2019, insofar as no agreement has been reached during the transition period. Last week another law relating to the Brexit was adopted in Parliament. We hope it does not come to that, but if it is necessary, we are prepared and then the measures can also be used to minimise job losses for workers. The measures are also temporary in nature. We were impressed by this in our contacts with the European Commission. Basically, it's about up to six months. Should it be necessary to extend the measures, this can only be done once advice has been first sought from the social partners in the NAR and a KB consulted in the Ministerial Council is issued on this matter. That was in a nutshell the legal text that we discussed and approved in committee. I would like to thank all those who contributed to this, the cabinet of Minister Muylle, our staff, the co-subscribers and the members of the political groups who supported the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u75	Madam Chair, as my colleague has said, we have had an opportunity to discuss this bill at length. I want to highlight three points. Firstly, during the committees, we introduced and supported all the amendments which were in the direction of more union control and more social consultation. Most of these amendments have been included in the draft law, which provides that this social consultation will really play an important role. This is essential for us because we want to prevent some companies from combining the Brexit system with the existing system of economic unemployment. Secondly, for us, this law does not provide enough guarantees as regards the maintenance of jobs in their entirety. The demand to be regarded as an enterprise entitled to economic unemployment is, in our view, far too flexible. Indeed, it is clear that it is not the workers who are responsible for Brexit. It is therefore not up to them to pay the consequences. Thirdly, in the proposed law, as regards the cost of the new situation, it is the community that will pay through social security. We have argued in committee that it is the Enterprise Closing Fund (FFE) that pays or possibly that companies that are so afraid of Brexit can themselves create a Brexit Fund financed by large companies. The latter proposal was not accepted in committee. For these three reasons, we will abstain in the vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u76	Madam President, the sp.a. can also endorse the objectives of the legislative proposal for social support measures to be taken in the event of a hard Brexit. The possible consequences have already been sufficiently explained. It is important that redundancies can be avoided in times of crisis and that we can retain as much employment as possible. In 2009, similar measures proved to be useful. They've also reduced the number of layoffs. During the debate we tabled a series of amendments. We are pleased that three of them have been adopted. We believe that this has led to an improvement in the initial proposal. With our first amendment, we have amended the legislative proposal in the sense that the measures can only be implemented within the company if they are preceded by proper social consultation. We think that's important. In times of crisis, it's hard for everyone anyway. In addition, temporary unemployment and crisis-time credit have an important impact on employees' income. That is what we need to discuss first. Such consultation is important because it is possible to agree on the duration, which supplements are granted and which categories of employees or departments in a company are eligible for these crisis measures. That is certainly a difference from the initial proposal. I come to the second amendment that we have proposed and which was accepted. Initially, the proposal assumed an expected decrease of 5% which was eventually converted into an effective decrease of 5% of turnover. We found this important because it makes a difference of 5% compared to the 2009 law. Then there had to be a turnover drop of 10%. We didn't think it should be too easy. There had to be an effective difference for the companies in order to be able to introduce these measures. A third amendment aimed at increasing the minimum amount of the temporary unemployment supplement that the employer must pay to a worker who is temporarily unemployed. Initially, the amount for workers was 2 euros per day and for servants 5 euros per day. We have indexed that amount to EUR 5.63 but we regret that the proposal only applies in the case of temporary unemployment in the event of a hard Brexit. We tabled an amendment at second reading, which was not adopted, to introduce indexation for all forms of temporary unemployment. The difference is hard to explain. In a company, some workers would receive 2 euros a day in the event of normal temporary unemployment, for example in the event of a cyber attack or the consequences of the coronavirus. At the same time, workers would be placed in temporary unemployment in another department of the same company as a result of a hard Brexit, which would give them a minimum supplement of EUR 5.63, an amount paid by the employer on top of the unemployment benefit. We regret that the amendment was not stopped at second reading. We're not gonna be able to explain this. Moreover, the amount has not been indexed since 2011 and a 2011 Constitutional Court ruling states that no distinction should be made between workers and servants. In the meantime, it is 2020: we think it is high time that this situation was finally corrected. That is why we have tabled a bill to that effect. Finally, I would like to remind you that we have asked the Minister for Social Affairs for their commitment and have been given the opportunity to take royal decisions to settle equivalences for the right to annual leave, accidents at work and occupational diseases. That happened in 2009, but then we had to wait a while for it because it was apparently 'forgotten'. That is why we have insisted so strongly this time. After all, people who take up time credits or end up in temporary unemployment as a result of a crisis caused by a hard Brexit should not lose holidays the following year. If they were to have an accident at work or were affected by an occupational disease, their benefit should be calculated on the basis of their full salary, which they received before the crisis measures entered into force. The sp.a therefore hopes that this commitment will be implemented as soon as the measures come into force. We call on the National Labour Council to do the same in the collective agreement 103 for the time credits. This unacceptable difference will prevent us from voting on the legislative proposal. We can endorse the objectives, but the framework could have been better.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at this particularly difficult political time, we can pay tribute to the work done in good intelligence between Parliament, the minister's office, the Employment SPF and the social partners. It's not that common. It is therefore to be welcomed. It was important, in the event that the European Union and the United Kingdom failed to reach an agreement on their trade relations, to protect employment through measures that had already demonstrated their effectiveness in previous economic and financial crises, particularly in 2009. We have a balanced and well-marked text. It has also been improved in some respects through dialogue with the social partners. It is therefore essential that it be made operational in the light of the forthcoming discussions between the European Union and the United Kingdom. One point seemed particularly important to us, and I would like to thank the colleagues who supported this approach. Small and medium-sized enterprises without trade union delegation should also be able to benefit from these measures. Again, we were able to move forward together. I will not be longer, Madam President, since my colleagues have already explained the content of the text. It was important to remind me that we will support him. Moreover, it would be nice if it were voted unanimously, or almost!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u78	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u79	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (880/11) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (880/11) The bill has 26 articles. The bill has 26 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u80	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u81	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Good Liekens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u82	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (847/7) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (847/7) The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the situation of LGBTI+ people in Uganda". The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on the situation of LGBTI+ persons in Uganda." The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u83	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in October 2019, Brian Wasswa, an LGBT+ rights activist, was murdered at home in Uganda when he was only 28 years old. A few days later, the Ugandan authorities were launching a bill called "Kill the Gays". This law explicitly aims to stop the spread of homosexuality and to condemn to death any LGBT+ person. This law is only the culmination of a series of measures taken by the Ugandan government against LGBT+ people. Today, I sincerely thank Mrs Liekens for this resolution which the Ecolo-Groen Group will support with enthusiasm. In the coming weeks, other bills will be tabled, including one concerning the situation of LGBT+ people in Poland, where the conservative Catholic government allows the spread of areas ideologically outside LGBT. In fact, other resolutions would be necessary in this Parliament to condemn, for example, the Mauritanian government where, recently, people have been imprisoned for simulating a same-sex marriage on social networks, but also to condemn Brazilian President Bolsonaro who has embarked on a real hunt for LGBT+ people since his election, to condemn Saudi Arabia, which condemns to death by stoning LGBT+ people or to condemn American evangelists who impose conversion therapies on homosexuals. Finally, it is this same idea that is spreading throughout the world among people of all religions: the idea that homosexuality is a disease and that it should be treated or eradicated. In order for our resolutions and positions to be heard throughout the world, we must ensure credibility in our own Parliament. We must fight the ever-increasing homophobic aggressions in Belgium. We must fight against the transphobic words that are scattered throughout society, including in the mouths of some politicians. We must increase the number of places in shelters, these structures that allow for the reception of young victims, among others victims of family rejection because of their sexual orientation. We have to get out of our legislation any words discriminating against homosexuals; here I am thinking of the law on the donation of blood. Thank you again to Mrs Liekens for this valuable resolution. Thank you to those in this Parliament and elsewhere who will advance the rights of LGBT people around the world, including at home.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am the situation in the partner country of our cooperation – namely Uganda – for many years now. Unfortunately, already in 2014, I had questioned the then Prime Minister, Mr.Elio Di Rupo, on the same subject. There's nothing new, unfortunately, under the sun. Of course, the Socialist Group will support this text, which incorporates many of my amendments. Our group would like to thank Mr Goedele Liekens for the excellent proposal she made in this resolution. Both through its support for this resolution and through its parliamentary work, my group wishes to condemn as strongly as possible all the liberating laws that attack LGBTI+ people, whether in Europe or around the world. Indeed, it is not only in Uganda, unfortunately, that the LGBTI+ community is threatened. A comprehensive approach by our country is therefore necessary. I am also on the initiative of a text on this subject in relation to the European continent in the context of the Council of Europe and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which will shortly be discussed in the Committee on External Relations. Like my colleague Simon Moutquin, I would also like to point out that people's rights to sexual orientation differ from a heterosexual majority, namely LGBTI+, are discriminated against in countries that are members of the European Union. In particular, in Poland today, 80 localities, covered by the Polish government, declared the hunting of gays, by decreeing areas "LGBT-free". This is a real scandal! We will come back soon. Obviously, we cannot tolerate, anywhere, that some are not only deprived of their rights, but also persecuted because of their origins, sexual orientation or beliefs. It is therefore appropriate to ask the Belgian Government to insist particularly on the Ugandan authorities so that they do not envisage the tabling or further examination of their draft law on the grounds of violation of the fundamental rights of homosexual or bisexual persons. If a strong diplomatic position is needed, the question is also how to react to such a rise in intolerance, to such a legalization of hatred, and to the rise of conservatism and populism. We must therefore take an example of the measures taken by the government in 2014 in a similar situation. Indeed, I am convinced that development cooperation is and must remain a positive lever of Belgium's foreign policy. I would therefore like to recall two points. The first one is next. The fight against discrimination is reflected in the Development Cooperation Act of 19 March 2013. Secondly, while our country must certainly ensure that its development cooperation projects continue to be fully respectful of fundamental rights, because it is a matter of consistency, they cannot be stopped net, because it is the people and civil society in those countries that would be the first victims. It must therefore be a priority that must be taken into account before any decision is taken. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a general comment on this motion for a resolution. Attention to human rights and identity in general and sexual orientation in particular should be respected in general. I think I can say that in our society, which we know in the western world, this is what we are talking about, or should I say "known"? In globo it is accepted. However, we see that the rights of LGBT people in other parts of the world, such as Africa, Asia and the Arabian Peninsula, are increasingly under pressure. Violence against and persecution of homosexuals is also increasing. International research by the Human Dignity Trust shows that 72 of the 196 internationally recognised independent states effectively criminalise homosexuality. Colleagues, that is to say, in just over a third of the countries around the world, homophilia is a criminal offence. It's illegal, illegal and illegal. Thus, according to the regimes in those countries, it is justified that homophilia should be punished with imprisonment, lashes, house arrest, barbaric stoning and even the death penalty. That is totally and completely reprehensible. I hope we all agree on this in this House. Governments should be expected to protect their citizens from laws and practices that are completely contrary to human dignity. We note, however, that nothing less is true. The present proposal highlights that further. Let's call a cat a cat. The fact that this is a direct result of the growing Islamic radicalisation should not, of course, be surprised. So we can say that there is a general lack of attention to the precarious situation of holebis in general and in addition to that of the Islamic regime abroad in particular. In addition, several Muslim countries expressing the death penalty or other penalties for holebi's are part of the United Nations Human Rights Council. The Saudi ambassador even became chairman of that council in 2015. It is therefore high time to raise awareness of these human rights violations. Our group in committee has already indicated its agreement with the spirit of this proposal. We can support the call for attention and the demand for awareness. However, I would like to make a comment on this story. However terrifying the situation in Uganda may be, however necessary the need for a strong signal is, Uganda is still, until further notice, still talking about a non-existent law, a so-called ghost law. This law has never been implemented and is unlikely to be implemented directly. We supported the amendment tabled by our colleagues in the N-VA because, as far as Uganda is concerned, we have the perfect means of pressure, in particular the suspension of bilateral development cooperation. Belgium has the perfect means to put pressure on the regime that confronts us with this problem. No respect for human rights, no pennies. As far as we're concerned, we didn't. Colleagues, should we therefore close our eyes to the matter itself? No. More importantly, for Flemish Interest, this issue needs a broader approach. I refer to the beginning of my speech. Our party wants to raise the issue of violence against and persecution of Holebis all over the world. We have indicated this in committee by tabling amendments which support this, and we will do it again today. As announced in the committee, in addition to Mr Liekens's explicit question, we will do so in the form of a motion for a resolution calling for explicit pressure on all countries that criminalise homosexuality and, where appropriate, pronounce the death penalty. As I said, there are a lot of them. I will spare you the list at the moment, more about it later. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say how important it is not to import the problems we are discussing here today, which we are all right to raise, into our own society. Admit it, this has long ceased to be confined to situations abroad. Let it be just in our society that lectures are being held and salafistic hate literature is being sold which explicitly calls for Holebis to be nailed and murdered, and where homosexuals are now openly attacked and molested on the streets. Before we know it, we are importing these reprehensible situations from abroad, which we rightly refer to; directly and often without any critical consideration of our own society. That, ladies and gentlemen, is hypocrisy at the top. That is something that I, my group, cannot stand by and watch. As has already been said, we will be submitting our amendments for approval again in the near future and, depending on the vote on them, we will change or maintain our voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Liekens' proposal is part of a desire to guarantee and reaffirm the universality of human rights. The reported situation shows a deterioration in the conditions of the LGBTI+ community in Uganda. Members of this community are victims of daily pressure, intimidation and prosecution. Unlike other countries, where progress on LGBTI+ rights appears to be being observed, in Uganda, a opposite direction is being taken. My group and I have supported this motion for a resolution because it stresses the need to combat discrimination based on sexual orientation. Every democracy must work to uphold the principles of equality and freedom. The former Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs, Didier Reynders, and the current Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence, Philippe Goffin, have made the fight against discrimination and the fight for equal opportunities, regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity, a priority of our foreign policy. I am pleased that this motion for a resolution has received strong support in committee. Today, I reiterate that my group and myself support Mrs Liekens' motion for a resolution, which I warmly thank.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u88	Madam President, we agree with the comments made by those Members who are in favour of this resolution. We have, of course, supported Mrs Liekens' proposal. In the Foreign Affairs Committee, we have noticed that there are many proposals on discrimination against LGBTQI in the world today. With this resolution, we are sending an important signal in our Parliament that calls for a firm fight against this discrimination, worldwide. From our group we have added some amendments which have strengthened the text. For example, through development cooperation, we call for attention to be paid to the fight against this discrimination, to put that fight on the agenda of the UN Security Council and to remove such discrimination from criminal law, including in Uganda. These additions were all valued and we welcome the support for our amendments. We therefore fully support the resolution tabled by Mrs Liekens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this resolution is to urge the Ugandan authorities to reconsider the tabling of the subsequent consideration of the bill violating the fundamental rights of homosexual or bisexual persons; to strongly condemn the speech of Mr Simon Lokodo, Secretary of State for Ethics and Integrity, which incites homophobia and hatred; to remind the Ugandan government of its obligations under international law and the Cotonou Agreement; and to strengthen the mechanisms for redress of human rights violations within the police. The PTB supports the demands made in this resolution to mark our position in the face of discrimination or persecution of persons on the basis of their sexual, religious or philosophical preferences. However, we still want to stress that, in this area, it is also important to look after the situation in Belgium or in Europe in general where LGBT+ rights are not acquired either. They're not guaranteed yet. Indeed, far-right movements and parties, which are growing everywhere, are increasingly threatening these rights, just as they threaten the rights of any minority community. Physical attacks on these minorities are also increasing. Ladies and gentlemen, this resolution is limited to Uganda. This problem must be dealt with more comprehensively, not only in Uganda but everywhere, including in Europe, in order to guarantee the rights of everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u90	Madam President, Mr Boukili, I assume that you think my group is an extreme right-wing group. I don't think so myself, but I'm trying to move into your thinking world. I would like to draw your attention, as well as all the speakers, and of course also the main proposer, Mrs Liekens, to the fact that Flemish Interest has a transsexual city council member in Blankenberge.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a happy woman in front of you. That is not only because it is in my nature, but also because this resolution was almost unanimously adopted by the Foreign Affairs Committee on 4 February. There were two abstentions, but 13 of my colleagues voted in favour. That makes me very happy, because that means that I feel very much supported by colleagues, by extension by everyone here and perhaps even by the people in the coffee room. However, it remains sad. It is 2020 and we still have to table a resolution on LGBTI+ rights. The worst thing here, and that is why this resolution on Uganda is important, is that homophobia and hatred are stirred up by a government, by the Ugandan government. I'm talking about a high-ranking politician, not just him. In this case it was about the Secretary of State for Ethics and Integrity. He said they would bring back an old law from 2009, condemning homosexuals to death. The man's name is Lodoko, to me he's poco loco. He took that law from under the dust. Fortunately, the international community immediately jumped on that and quite rightly said that this cannot be done. And then Museveni's spokesman, not even himself, said that they would not vote for the death penalty. Before you make a dance of joy, I would like to remind you of the reason why they are not in favour of the death penalty. In their view, the current legislation is sufficient. They can be sentenced to life imprisonment. So we are not getting anywhere with that. It is clear that this has created a whole atmosphere. This can also be seen clearly in Uganda. I'm a dead man. You feel that the entire LGBTI community is endorsed and discriminated against, including by the police. And not only that community itself, but also aid workers and organisations that are committed to those people. That's where even murders are committed. I think it is very important that we say no to this kind of discrimination on grounds of orientation. Love is love. You know me: sex is sex, too. No matter who you're sleeping with. As long as it concerns adults who have given their consent, we Liberals say it is allowed. I even see nodding in Flemish interest. You don't? Oh, I'm sorry. I was just going to say that I am glad that we all agree that. But not, apparently. I think this is very important. I hear important comments. Mrs. Ponthier, I'm glad you're worried about that community. I'm also glad you said there's still work to be done. It's not just about Uganda. I think we all agree on that. Mr Lacroix also mentioned this. There are several resolutions before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as Mrs Van Hoof said. There is one from Mr Crombez on Poland, for example. Then it is very specific about the homo-free zones, on which I have recently asked the Minister a question. Mrs Ponthier, to meet you - a very valuable amendment has been proposed by Défi. I'll just say that I co-signed it. This amendment incorporates resolutions from the 53rd and 54th legislatures into this text. For example, we are calling for the worldwide lifting of the criminalisation of homosexuality. So I co-signed that amendment. I hope, therefore, that we will vote with as many people as possible, so that we can all go out with a rainbow flag, instead of just going out with this coloured bow tie.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the 21st century, states persist in criminalizing, discriminating and humiliating people on the basis of their sexual orientation. This situation is also observed in some countries with which Belgium maintains economic, diplomatic and even partnership relations in terms of development cooperation. That is the case with Uganda. The comments made by Uganda's Secretary of State for Ethics and Integrity, Simon Lokodo, concerning a possible return to Parliament of a law criminalizing homosexuality – even though it had been rejected by the Constitutional Court – are unacceptable. We had to react and express our opposition to such legislation, but also our solidarity with LGBT+ communities, targeted by these laws, in Uganda or elsewhere, because they are attacked for what they are. These laws expose citizens to arrest, prosecution, imprisonment and even, in at least five countries, the death penalty. In some of these States, these penalties are applied with the utmost severity. In others, they are very few, but the police are encouraged to discriminate, harass, or even assault the gay community, putting a perpetual fear of rejection and violence on its members. This duty is essential because such attacks, whether systemic or sporadic, whether emanating from a government or a mere citizen, will always be unacceptable. With this motion for a resolution, Belgium thus recalls that, in its bilateral cooperation with Uganda, it makes its assistance conditional on respect for human rights in general and those of LGBTQI+ people in particular. That was why it was necessary for the text to focus on the Ugandan situation. This motion for a resolution also has the advantage of warning all our partner States that whenever one of them attacks a minority, whether religious, ethnic, sexual orientation or gender identity, our country will be intransigent and learn the lessons that need to be learned. I would like to recall that the use made by the far right of violations of LGBTQI+ rights for lowly ideological and political purposes is just as intolerable. No, these violations are not the majority of the Muslim community as some are still trying to make us believe, including in this assembly. To convince yourself, if necessary, it is enough to see the 80 Polish municipalities that have still recently declared themselves "a guaranteed area without LGBT persons" in order to preserve the Christian identity of Poland. Homophobia is therefore not specific to a particular community or religion. Homophobia is present in all countries, regardless of their religion, traditions, ethnicity. Homophobia is not nourished by religious beliefs but by ignorance, prejudice, simplistic shortcuts such as yours and the intolerance they generate. As you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, my group fully supports this motion for a resolution. In its recitals, the proposal refers to the resolution on the decriminalisation of homosexuality adopted on 3 March 2011 and not to the text of 23 June 2016 which was also unanimously voted by our Assembly. The latter, however, is more comprehensive in that it takes into account the Yogyakarta Principles on the Application of International Human Rights Legislation, on Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity, as well as the resolution passed by the Senate on 27 November 2012 on these same principles. That is why with Mrs Liekens, whom I also thank for her initiative and her work, I have tabled an amendment to add this text to the recitals. I would like once again to thank the authors of this text for the strong and essential message that it allows us to address. The LGBT community is indeed a target of choice for the enemies of democracy and freedom. That is why we will always have to work for its protection and for its respect so that everyone can be free, without any coercion or intimidation, to be himself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u93	Madam President, I would like to add a little more. I understand the concerns of some people who are wondering what to do with development cooperation. Of course, we have thought about this. I have seen how development cooperation can be dealt with in different places in the world for 20 years, and that is why I see it more as an important weapon on the ground to convey our values and standards rather than to say that we should stop completely. So I see it not so much as a foot in the door, but as a way of fighting from the inside out and saying why we think it is important. Of course, conditions must be attached to this, but we must not say that we will then stop completely. I'd rather see it as a Trojan Horse, and that was a good move too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u94	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u95	Considerations/Considerans/Consideration C • 26 – Sophie Rohonyi cs (847/8) Considerans/Consider S(n) • 22 – Annick Ponthier cs (847/8) Considerations/Considerans/Considering T(n) • Annick Ponthier cs (847/7) Application/Demande 1 • 24 – Annick Ponthier cs (847/8) Request/Demande 6 • Annick Ponthier cs (847/ 8)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u96	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u97	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Emmanuel Burton, Philippe Goffin, David Clarinval, Benoît Piedboeuf, Florence Reuter, Vincent Scourneau.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u98	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (581/6) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (581/6) The title has been amended by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on an amendment to the road code with regard to the width of trailers drawn by bicycles for the carriage of goods". The title was changed by the committee to "proposal for a resolution on a change in the road code in relation to the width of bicycle-drawn trailers for the carriage of goods." The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u99	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u100	Madam President, with the text for approval, we call on the Federal Government to amend the Royal Decree of December 1975 in order to increase the maximum width of trailers drawn by bicycles to 1.20 metres and, where appropriate, to amend other provisions of the road code so as to ensure safety. In doing so, we meet the modal shift challenges that we face. In the specific case it is about the shift from van to bike, especially in urban areas. No one is denying the challenges such as mobility, climate change and air pollution. We therefore believe that it is worth examining this in more detail in pilot projects. In this way it can be assessed whether any concrete points of pain and consequences can be properly assessed. That seems important to us. That is why we in committee did not agree with the amendment tabled by the Ecolo-Green colleagues who asked for the word pilot project to be deleted. By deleting that word, the wider trailers for bicycles would already be allowed in all cases. The most important unknown in the story is the answer to the question whether the infrastructure in most cities and municipalities has been adapted to ensure that everything is safe. In addition, we think it would be useful to consider whether we should ideally study the data in a global modal shift. In the framework of the pilot projects, as I said, we believe that the proposal of the MR colleagues can be absolutely useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be very long. As has been said earlier, the challenges of mobility coupled with the issue of global warming and problems related to air or noise pollution and, more generally, to the quality of life in agglomerations, prompt us to take action where it is possible to reduce the pressure of motorized traffic. Some initiatives are being developed to encourage a modal shift from the transport of goods by van or truck to the bicycle. With this proposal, we want to encourage them. However, road regulations could constitute an obstacle to the use of certain trailers as it is necessary to be able to transport a Europe pallet. For these reasons, we first ask the government to amend section 82.4.2 of the Royal Order of December 1975 so that the maximum width of a trailer drawn by a bicycle is increased to 1.2 metres. As a second step, it will logically be necessary to amend other provisions of the Road Traffic Code in order to ensure the safe movement of bicycles pulling these trailers. Although this is a resolution providing for a testing phase, we supported the requests for advice from the authorities concerned. The Brussels Region has already carried out this experiment and points out that the tests demonstrate the validity of this choice. In view of the favourable opinions of the Walloon Region, the Flemish Region and Vias which make no criticism on this subject, it is essential to offer legal certainty to these new players. This text and the amendment, which was intended to make a linguistic correction in the Dutch version, received all the votes of our committee, with one abstention. We therefore hope to have the same support today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today my group is very pleased to support the first text voted in the Committee on Mobility and thanks the MR Group for bringing it to the House. Here is a question of adding 26 centimetres to the width of bicycle trailers. This may seem to be a detail, but it is, in fact, very important for the logistics sector that is in the process of reconversion. In fact, currently, the width of trailers towed by cargo bikes cannot exceed one metre. In fact, Belgium is an exception in this respect. The problem lies in the fact that, as you know, the logistics sector is standardised and the width of Europe pallets is 1.2 metres, which creates enormous logistical problems and prevents it from being competitive in the delivery chain. Today, this proposal really aims to support an essential sector both to achieve our very ambitious climate goals and to improve the quality of life in our cities. These trailers are already used in 45 cities and 12 countries. On the other hand, other road codes, such as the French code, simply do not mention a maximum width of a bicycle trailer. These vehicles represent a very important opportunity in terms of fighting climate change but also to decongest our cities. The delivery sector now accounts for 15% of vehicles entering the city. They are often more voluminous, polluting and not compatible with the sharing of public space with other gentle modes of transport. In addition, they are constantly increasing. That's why transport by cargo bike is really an opportunity. Some studies estimate that they could replace 50% of motorized delivery. This bill is very much expected by the sector. Companies such as Delhaize or Decathlon have already invested in the bicycles in question. They wait in garages and wish only one thing, it's to be able to ride. A decree made it possible to organize a pilot project. It has been going on for nine months in Brussels and is going smoothly. Companies are asking for a clear legal framework because, as you imagine, this represents substantial investments. They must therefore ensure that these investments are not made for nothing and that legislation will not change frequently. We have received a number of opinions that have been sought. Vias's opinion is favourable. The Walloon Region is very favourable. It even asks that no more limits be set, as in the French Highway Code, and that we not limit ourselves to the pilot project. The Brussels Region has provided us with a very detailed opinion accompanied by an annex, namely the report of the pilot project which has been carried out over the last nine months. The report notes the absence of incidents and conflicts between different modes of transport. He says this is a real opportunity that needs to be supported and encouraged. He also called for this not to be limited to pilot projects, since they had already been carried out at their scale. The Flemish Region's opinion came very late; we had already voted in committee when we received it. I understand that the Flemish Region may be concerned about the particularity of its territory and the fact that it has a more dense cycling mobility than in Wallonia. We will support the motion for a resolution as presented. We will not resubmit our amendment in view of the late arrival of the opinion. However, we hope that the pilot projects will be carried out quickly, that a report will be drawn up and transmitted to the House so that we can finally allow the circulation of these new vehicles. This is an important new step for modal change in Belgium. The Road Traffic Code must evolve to include soft transportation, make life easier and secure. The Ecolo-Groen Group has tabled a series of legislative proposals to this effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u103	As my colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, said earlier, we are assessing every proposal on the basis of its content. The proposal before us contains a technical improvement which we believe is very valuable to the people working in the logistics sector. That is why we will be supporting Mr Burton's proposal in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u104	Madam President, I would like to thank colleagues for the proposal and their support. We too will support the proposal in the near future. It is a proposal that aims to enable a pilot project to work with wider bicycle trailers in logistics. The width is increased to 1.2 meters, the width of a euro pallet. In logistics, it is not insignificant to be able to work with that. The proposal could promote the sustainable last-mile transport of goods. In this sense, we can support the idea. There was a proposal for a generalisation and for legislation to be adapted immediately so that it would be possible to do so on a permanent basis. We think it would be wiser to work with pilot projects, as proposed in the resolution, given the possible disadvantages for cycling in general. These effects need to be carefully studied before we definitively change the road code. So I think it is good to test the adjustment and to check whether it does not have too many negative effects on bicycle use in general. That was also the reason why the sp.a in committee called for the resolution not to be adopted. With a pilot project, we have found a good middle way to investigate and test whether there are not too many negative effects. In this way, we will be able to assess the consequences. I am partly following the criticism of Mr Vandenbroucke who referred to a reflex of many traffic specialists to push all possible alternative means of transport for the car on a narrow bicycle lane. We must also be aware of this. It is therefore wise to examine, on the basis of pilot projects, whether or not a permanent introduction is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u105	Madam President, the sp.a Group is pleased that more and more players in the logistics chain are trying to move towards sustainable modes such as, concretely, bicycles with trailers. We believe that this is absolutely necessary in terms of air quality in our cities, road safety and quality of life. In committee, I abstained from this resolution. Here in plenary, we will approve this because it is indeed limited to a pilot project to see whether it is acceptable and desirable to extend the maximum width of 1 metre to 1.2 metres. If we really want to work on the modal shift, including in logistics, we will need much more fundamental interventions in the organisation of our public space. This is happening today in more and more Flemish center cities, where one no longer tries to push all kinds of cargo bikes or bikes with trailers on a narrow bicycle lane, but where the cycle path is simply abolished. Instead, bicycle streets are made, where cyclists in all shapes and qualities always and everywhere across the full width of the road take precedence over cars. This is the way to look at logistics supplies in urban agglomerations as well. Give priority to emission-free vehicles, bicycles in particular. Then we can get off that narrow bicycle lane on which we now try to push bikes with bicycle trailers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u106	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u107	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u108	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 210: Catherine Fonck, Karin Jiroflée, Els Van Hoof - 857: Karin Jiroflée, Jan Bertels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u109	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u110	Madam President, only the title of the proposed legislative text is very mouthful. It is therefore important for me to explain the report for a moment, all the more so because the readers of the report will have noticed that there are still a number of legislative proposals attached to it. The original bill on which we based ourselves comes from Mrs Fonck and concerns the ban on tobacco advertising. During the discussion in the committee, a number of legislative proposals were added. It concerns Mrs Van Hoof's legislative proposals on the sale of tobacco producers in vending machines and on the advertising and sale of tobacco products. An additional proposal by Mrs Fonck on stepping up the fight against smoking followed. A legislative proposal by Mrs Jiroflée was also included in the discussion and concerns a complete ban on tobacco products. At a subsequent meeting of the committee, two legislative proposals were put forward by Mrs Fonck, the first on the smoke-free area regime. This is specifically about the smoking ban when children are in the car. Now the limit is 16 years and the proposal is to raise that limit to 18 years. The second proposal goes against the general acceptance and dissemination of the e-cigarette. The committee then decided to move on to Mrs Fonck's and Mrs Jiroflée's general ban on tobacco products, as discussed today. At the same time, we also voted on the ban on smoking in the car. That was sent back to committee and will therefore be discussed at another time. It was also decided to refer the proposals on points of sale, vending machines and e-cigarettes to working groups in which MEPs work amongst themselves. During the preparation of the bill on the advertising ban, we asked for advice from the Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed and SMEs, as well as from the Foundation against Cancer, UNIZO and, because they were involved in the further discussions, also from Perstablo and ProDiPresse. All these opinions were included in the report. Those who have already started work on the subject know that there is already a ban on advertising tobacco products, to which there are still a number of exceptions, such as advertising on the fronts of tobacco and newspaper shops and on their counters. Mrs Fonck, the author of the legislative proposal, pointed out during the general discussion that it was very strange to start legislation on neutral cigarette packaging in January, but at the same time to allow exceptions to advertising, which is why she wanted to deal with it now. The co-author, Mrs Jiroflée, added that it was a step towards the non-smoking society that we are working on. If you draw up the written report, you will see that all colleagues agreed to the proposal. It was therefore adopted unanimously, but an amendment to the original legislative proposal was adopted, leaving the entry into force of the law a little behind: initially the law would enter into force in six months' time, but that date is now set on 1 January 2021 to meet the demands of the shops to get in line with the administration and organisation of their shop. So they have plenty of time to do so. I assume that voting in plenary will be the same as in committee. This text is certainly not the last one you will be presented from the Committee on Tobacco Health, because there are still a lot of legislative proposals to be discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, the N-VA Group will support the proposal before us, as we clearly emphasised in committee. Although we have already been able to reduce the problem of smoking considerably, this country still has 19% smokers. That's 5 % less than 10 years ago and 10 % less than 20 years ago. The number is steadily declining, but there is still a lot of work on the shelf. It might be interesting to note that the number of smokers in men is a lot higher. Whether that depends on us, women, being more stress-resistant or the men getting stress from us, is completely outside of our discussion. It is also interesting to note that even smoking is Community-wide. In Flanders, the number of smokers, especially among young people, has already been reduced much more sharply than in Brussels and Wallonia by 8% compared with 15% and 14% respectively. Smoking remains the main cause of premature death in Europe, and this costs us EUR 11 billion a year, despite the revenue from excise duties. This was made very clear by the SOCOST study in the previous legislature. When we take action on tobacco, we try to take account of those who already smoke. It turns out that three quarters of smokers themselves would like to stop. The smokers here will be able to testify that it is a very heavy addiction and that it is therefore very difficult to get rid of it. Hence our efforts in committee to reduce the influx in particular and to ensure that as few people as possible start smoking. I come to our position on the proposal on the advertising ban. We see that most smokers have started young, because half of them have started smoking between 16 and 18 years old. Adolescents are sensitive to dependent substances and to advertising. The proposal will therefore not only protect the general population, but in particular young people from starting smoking. As far as advertising is concerned, I have included the table for those who could not attend the hearings. It tells us that after the sharp increase in the run-up to 2000 and the first bans on tobacco advertising, the number of young people using tobacco is falling. Young people are sensitive to advertising and it is therefore very clear that advertising plays a major role in starting smoking. Today we are just trying to prevent them from starting smoking. To sum up, our group supports any proposal that benefits the health of our people, and especially of young people. We are pleased that together in committee we have been able to find a very constructive solution that is also fair to the sector. It must be given time to adapt. Sometimes we disagree and there are spicy discussions, but this time we were able to work very constructively together. I would therefore like to congratulate the authors of the proposal on their constructive cooperation. As the rapporteur has already said, we are working on this in a working group. I hope that in this way we will be able to adopt many proposals to protect the health of the population. I look forward to further cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, environmentalists have never hesitated between health and tobacco, although this has cost them in the past. In 1997, Ecolo and Agalev were in opposition and supported the law prohibiting tobacco advertising that came into force in August 2003. But the law didn't prohibit all advertisements. However, the Cancer Foundation has been repeating for decades – and this is the first of its recommendations – that advertising has a negative influence on smokers, especially young people. The ban on tobacco advertising has had a clear impact on the number of smokers. Thirty years later, we're finally there! We have completely eliminated tobacco advertising. So we are going to take one more step towards a tobacco-free generation. I would like to thank colleagues in the Committee on Health for the constructive discussions. It also bodes well for the work that we are going to begin in a working group to go even further on place of sale restrictions, product exposure and control measures. Without prefiguring the result, I think we're in a good trend. The road to a tobacco-free generation is still very long. A comprehensive and inter-federal anti-smoking plan remains the most appropriate instrument to achieve this. We need to broaden our range of interventions by further integrating prevention by combining actions on the economic, social and health fronts. Several European countries have achieved this by establishing national and regional governance to place tobacco control as a public health priority. Their governments have set a clear goal: all children today will have to become the first generation without tobacco.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 1977 Consumer Health Protection Act lays down a ban on advertising or sponsorship of tobacco products. If Belgium had taken a big step, it still had one more step to take to get to the end. Until then, we still allowed advertising inside tobacco stores and bookstores and on their fronts. According to the latest tobacco survey, one in five smokers reported having seen tobacco advertising in the past three months, mainly in tobacco stores and bookstores. However, 69% of respondents to this survey felt that tobacco advertising should stop. The text by Mrs Fonck and our colleagues is an important one. We would like to thank her for her tireless fight against tobacco. Ladies and gentlemen, we will probably have differences in other matters, but for this one, we congratulate you on your hard work. We'll support you today. We are also pleased to see that an amendment has been adopted to postpone these measures until 1 January 2021 and thus to respond to the legitimate appeal of all booksellers and tobacco shops to adapt their trade to meet a financial loss. It's a fact! Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you something enormous: tobacco kills! It's huge! But what is even more so today is the number of active smokers. What is even more enormous is to see, through these active smokers, unfortunately, all passive smokers. Tobacco often kills each other, but always in pain, in that of those who smoke, have smoked but also in that of families. 40 years ago, I was a passive smoker, like many of you, in the back of my parents' car who were both smoking. It was normal, it was banal, it was life, it was before. 30 years ago and for 20 years, I was an active smoker. I was young, maybe stupid, influential and especially influenced. Today, I am freed from this slavery and I am very happy about it. As a father, I will do everything I can to ensure that my son never smokes. I'm not going to ban him because I don't believe in prohibiting him. But I will do everything possible: listening, information and exchange with him, and I will also support texts like the one we are proposing today. I will because I don't want to see him suffer and because I don't want to suffer with him. I'll just do it because I love it. That's why, just now with the PS group, I'll press the green button and it'll kind of be a little love statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u114	Mr President, I can tell you that the Flemish interest will support this proposal. It is part of the fight against tobacco and smoking and thus against cancer. The only remark we had is the fact that the daily merchants who are the main sellers of the product marked here see part of their income disappear. However, the amendment adopted in committee also met this requirement. We shall therefore support the proposal, as has already been said.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, briefly, on behalf of the MR Group, I would like to say that we will support this text, particularly for two specific reasons. Firstly, because the fight against tobacco consumption must continue. It's a matter of public health. Considering that any form of public advertising can only encourage this harmful consumption, it should be reduced. This reduction is part of our programme. Secondly, this law proposed for voting today incorporates the amendment that the MR has tabled to give time to the sector, our booksellers, those independents who have been undergoing numerous legislative changes for several years, impacting their activity of proximity and social link in a neighbourhood. They're already only 3,500. It was in the context of this attention that we asked, during the committee work, for the views of the industry and the professional federations to adopt a law applicable within a reasonable period of time, that is to say, to take into account the difficulties of this network of local independents. This is why, as amended, this bill now provides for the entry into force of the ban on advertising to the public in almost a year, on January 1, 2021. This gives the booksellers more time to adapt, which was essential in order not to increase their difficulties, while guaranteeing the interest of public health. I thank and commend the very constructive work done in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u116	Mr President, I support the statements made by my fellow Members, but I would like to add a few more details to underline the importance of this fight against tobacco, which I have been working with Mrs Fonck since the last parliamentary term. What's the big deal? One in five Belgians smoke. Addiction is obviously not a choice of its own, but the consequences are unmistakable. Smoking in our country is responsible for 15,000 deaths a year. That's 40 dead a day. To imagine it even more plastic, that's an airplane a week. All this costs the various Belgian authorities many billions of euros, especially in the field of health. The figures I have just given are from the 2018 Health Survey and are, of course, alarming. Above all, we must avoid young people starting smoking. Many steps have also been taken in the previous legislatures. Two legislative hours ago there was the ban on smoking in the hospitality industry. In the previous legislature we worked on increasing excise duties on tobacco. There is a better refund of the starter pack of smoke medication. We entered the neutral package. There's a ban on smoking in the car. We've set the age for purchasing a package at 18 years. Of course, the work isn't finished yet. It is important that we continue this strong overall approach. I believe that the WHO puts forward three important principles in the area of addiction. Firstly, the price must be increased. Secondly, accessibility must be reduced. Thirdly, the attractiveness must be reduced. The legislative proposal before us today, which I have also tabled, is about reducing attractiveness, which is also important for the WHO. I am glad that we are already approving this today. After all, the neutral package will soon be introduced. Above all, we must avoid increasing advertising in the daily trade. Because the neutral package will reduce the attractiveness of smoking, it is a bit contradictory that there too, investments will increase in advertising because the package makes it less attractive to smoke. We have to go even further than what is being voted on today. I am pleased that an informal working group has been set up to reflect further and look at the economic aspect. As Mr Creemers said, we have therefore tabled a number of legislative proposals, both around the unique points of sale and about reducing tobacco vending machines. The daily trade is also a questioning party. We see that people also move abroad to unique outlets. This applies to the second point of the World Health Organisation, which says that tobacco should be made less accessible. This is particularly important for young people. I hope that we in this informal working group can quickly reach a conclusion and find a majority and quickly come to the plenary with these proposals and approve them. We must avoid those 15,000 deaths a year and we must continue to take action. That is why I also support the initiative of the National Coalition against Tobacco, which wants to move towards a tobacco-free society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u117	Mr President, I will be less lyrical than Mr Rigot. It'll be for another theme, maybe. We have known for many years that tobacco is carcinogenic. The prohibition of tobacco advertising is therefore a logical measure in the interests of public health. Tobacco advertising has been banned in our country for many years, but there were still exceptions to this law. That happens all the time in our country: there are laws and there are exceptions. Thus, it remains possible to advertise on the façade and in the tobacco shop itself until today. The complete ban on advertising is a demand of the Foundation against Cancer and is finally on the agenda today. With the PVDA we support this. There was also an extra reason to do this. By introducing neutral packaging for cigarettes, there is a legitimate fear that the tobacco industry would compensate for this neutral packaging with additional advertising in and on the front of the shops. Direct and indirect advertising is an important strategy for the tobacco industry to make people addicted to tobacco products, making them profit billions. The tobacco industry was therefore eager to make use of the current exception. A lot of advertising posters hang in and around schools, and that's no coincidence. Research shows how the tobacco industry is actively targeting young people, because this is very effective for them. Research shows that the more young people are exposed to tobacco advertising, the more likely they will be to use tobacco later on. Young learners, old learners, and the tobacco industry has understood that very well. I also often see it in my practice as a general practitioner: the sooner people start smoking, the harder it is often to get rid of that addiction at a later age. Seven out of ten smokers have begun to regret it and two out of three would like to quit smoking. The health benefits of abolishing the exception are undeniable, but we know that many newspaper shops derive their income from that sale, and we, like the Foundation against Cancer, support the idea of examining how we can help those shops to convert with sales of other products. There is still much work to be done to achieve a coherent policy to reduce tobacco consumption in our country. For example, Belgium spends only 28 cents per capita on prevention, where the international recommendation is to spend 2 euros per person. That is not what we are deciding here, I hear you say, which is the competence of the Länder. In this case too, it is clear: in order to achieve a coherent policy on tobacco reduction, we can only see that the various state reforms are a problem. While the tobacco industry is organised globally, it is difficult for us to develop a coherent policy through the unnecessary and costly fragmentation of powers in our country. This did not prevent us from working constructively together in the Committee on Health on the various legislative proposals on the table. We in the PVDA want to actively support them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u118	Today we could read that Belgium climbs from the seventeenth to the tenth place on the Tobacco Control Scale. Fine, seven banks ahead. But it can do much better. And if we're gonna do better, we're gonna end up with commercials. We know by now the damaging influence of good tobacco advertising. It generates...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u119	This is not because of smoking, let that be very clear. (Hilarity) It generates lucrative income and it generates a new stream of smokers, so that the tobacco industry continues to render profit. In concrete terms, this leads to serious tobacco-related diseases, to which many people die prematurely. In Belgium, as many as 20,000 people die prematurely every year due to tobacco-related diseases. Fortunately, we have already taken many measures in the field of advertising. Tobacco advertising continues to be restricted. It can only be done in our country in very exceptional cases: on the façade or behind the counter of a tobacconist or newspaper shop where tobacco products are sold. But let that newspaper store be just a place where young people hang out all the time. They meet up in the morning before school, buy their snacks in the afternoon and after school a candy. It is precisely there that they are constantly in contact with that very inventive and very inventive and let's be honest: often very attractive advertising for tobacco. So we are very pleased today that we can also close that gate further, because the sp.a Group wants to fully join the Generation Smoke-free initiative. We want to strive for a society in which every child can grow up smoke-free. I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their tremendous cooperation in dealing with these tobacco proposals. I sincerely hope that we will continue to be able to work together in order to take a number of further steps forward. In view of the proposals already submitted, which we have already discussed in a working group, we can still do a number of things that meet the demands of all health professionals, but above all the health of our children and young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to make a declaration of love. Rather, it is a statement of total disaffection for tobacco. I've just seen too many patients suffer and die from it. For these patients and for our young people, who need to be protected from tobacco, we still need to take steps. Of course, today a new step has been taken. She's important. The aim is obviously not to point the finger at smokers, but rather to continue to accompany them to get out of smoking. The aim here, through advertising, is to protect first and foremost non-smokers and especially young people. These, as we know, are very exposed to the formidable strategy of cigar makers, who use and abuse all the tricks and strings to have particularly attractive advertisements in order to attract our young people to tobacco. They make sure that their displays are hyper-attractive, with the logo of the brands, while, despite this, they try to put neutral packages in them. It was therefore necessary to go through this stage. It's done today. But the tobacco strategy doesn't stop there. One in three cancers, 14,000 premature deaths, thousands of patients with cardiovascular or pulmonary diseases are the result of smoking. Fighting this is the goal of the public health strategy we want to follow. I am pleased that these steps can be taken together. As far as booksellers are concerned, I have had many contacts with their federations. The impact on turnover may be significant. At the same time, they welcomed this progress. Like them, I plead that the number of outlets in Belgium should be reduced. This would therefore allow them to be reserved for booksellers and small traders, exercising greater control, in particular to protect our young people. By comparison, France has twice as many outlets as Belgium, even though France is six times larger. The measure will enter into force on 1 January 2021 at the same time as the total obligation of the neutral package. It is obviously consistent to do so simultaneously but, above all, not to allow a package on displays with tobacco logos. Colleagues, I will not stop there, you understand. Others of you are also leading this fight. We have this working group. I hope that we can achieve a good deal of unanimity in the vote, but also in other matters relating to tobacco. I thank you, in any case, for this very constructive cooperation in committee. I would also like, on behalf of all of us, to pay tribute to the Foundation against Cancer, but also to the National Alliance against Tobacco, as well as to all the doctors and caregivers who are investing on a daily basis. Their goal, which I hope will become ours, is to move forward and create tomorrow the famous generations without tobacco that they rightly carry. Let us continue this fight together first and foremost for patients but also to protect our young people and non-smokers!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u121	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we could not tolerate any more than, although tobacco advertising was in principle prohibited, an exception was still made for buralists and newspaper merchants selling tobacco. We had to ensure some consistency in our fight against tobacco dependence and the pursuit of a tobacco-free generation, with genuine political will. Moreover, it is clear that the Belgian population we represent, including smokers, understands this objective. A survey conducted by the Cancer Foundation found that the majority of respondents supported more drastic anti-smoking measures, including a total ban on advertising in outlets. The public therefore seems to have understood that the adoption of a national anti-smoking plan, in which all tobacco advertising ends, is a high public health requirement, since tobacco is the main cause of lung cancer that also favours the breast, the ENT sphere or the colon. Tobacco is also a high risk factor for other diseases such as cardiovascular disease, chronic bronchitis and various respiratory diseases. He is responsible for more than 20,000 premature deaths a year in our country. This anti-smoking plan should therefore be a priority for the next federal government in terms of public health as well as compliance with our international commitments, since Belgium has ratified the World Health Organization Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, which stresses that the overall ban on advertising will reduce the consumption of tobacco products. I am pleased that Parliament has not waited for a full-fledged government to tackle this plan. The aim here is to ensure, as I have pointed out, consistency in our anti-smoking policy. How can we, in fact, allow advertising in certain stores and in their fronts when we have banned it on the packages by means of the introduction of the neutral package? Throughout the debates in committee, we have been contacted by ruralists and booksellers concerned about this bill and its implications for their sector and their future. We need to understand the management difficulties that this measure will create for their trade and to understand their feelings in that their profession is already faced with many constraints that reduce their profit margin, not to mention the competition of major brands. But they must also understand our duty to protect our population, which Ms. Fonck reminded, and especially young people, of active smoking as a passive and, therefore, of the incentive effect of tobacco advertising. Thus, a transitional provision was provided for, with the entry into force no longer in six months, but on January 1, 2021, in order to allow merchants to adapt. Let us not lose sight, however, of the fact that alongside this, we will have to do everything possible to limit the number of tobacco outlets in order to compensate for their loss of turnover, just as we will have to help them diversify their sources of income so that they will not ultimately be dependent on tobacco sales.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u122	Mr President, my speech is not about the defence of tobacco. I say that in advance. My argument is that I am concerned. I will not defend the tobacco, Mr Rigot. I think it's wrong to fall back on his personal life. For example, I can tell you that my father died of lung cancer, and there was more tar in his lungs than on the highway. He had seven children, Mr. Rigot. I'd like to hear you speak a moment ago about how you were in the car. It was the same with us. There were seven kids. None of them have smoked, and some of them have taken it very far in the sports world. My story's not there. My story is about the surveillance state. I wanted to intervene earlier when Mrs Jiroflée said so beautifully that there is quite a lot here on Parliament's benches. That is indeed what concerns me. Today, tobacco advertising is banned. I'm against tobacco. Whoever smokes today plays roulette with his own life. I can understand all that. Since you said it so beautifully, Mrs. Jiroflée, I decided to intervene. I saw in the program for the next week of work: banning the sale to minors of metal cartridges with nitric oxide. Those who have worked in the catering industry will know that they have a lot of slides, because that is used to spray whipped cream. But we will soon make a law against this. Last year a camel threw a bump in the fireworks, and fireworks were banned by the Flemish Parliament. This afternoon we started Question Time. I hear Mr Geens say that yesterday the Council of State destroyed a law banning gambling advertising. Today there is a bill to ban gambling until 21 years. We don't want publicity anymore either. I do not know whether people are still in touch with reality here. When one looks at football today, one can see that 16 of the football teams in first class and a lot of cycling teams advertise for gambling offices. We're in the middle of a ban company. I'm not arguing today in defence of smoking, but what's next? Obesity? Obesity is a disease of civilization. I suffer from it myself, but it's my own fault. Will you ban sugary drinks or advertising? What's next? Alcohol? There are many more deaths due to alcohol addiction than cigarettes. Maybe the fossil fuels will be next? I believe that the government has the task and the moral obligation to make citizens aware of the danger, but whoever ignores the danger does not want to know or cares. That is still the individual's free choice. I shall abstain in the vote. I am not talking about tobacco, but about the fact that we have become a surveillance state, with all kinds of patronizing laws that will provide a legal basis for intolerance. I conclude with the words of a very famous writer, whom you are undoubtedly familiar with, Mr President. The Argentinean Mario Vargas Llosa was a chain smoker and once said: "Bit by bit suicide is a right that should be on the list of the most basic human rights."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u123	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u124	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (210/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (210/5) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u125	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u126	The next item is the election for the appointment of the two federal mediators, one French-speaking and the other Dutch-speaking. On the agenda is the secret ballot for the appointment of the two federal ombudsmen, one Dutch speaking, the other French speaking. By letter of 7 January 2020, Mr Philippe Vande Castele withdrew his candidacy for the mandate of Dutch-speaking federal mediator. By letter dated 7 January 2020, Mr Philippe Vande Castele withdrew his candidacy for the mandate of Dutch-speaking federal Ombudsman. The candidates were heard in the Petitions Committee on 14 January 2020. Ms Dominiek Sneppe reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 19 February 2020. On 14 January 2020 the candidates were heard by the Petitions Committee. Ms Dominiek Sneppe reported on these hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 19 February 2020. The document bearing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (1043/1) The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed. (1043/1) In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 February 2020, which was distributed on the benches, I propose that you do not proceed with the appointment of the French-speaking federal mediator and publish a new call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the mandate of French-speaking federal mediator. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 February 2020 distributed to the banks, I propose that you do not appoint the French-speaking Federal Ombudsman and publish a new call for candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of the French-speaking Federal Ombudsman. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. It is therefore only necessary to vote for the Dutch-speaking Federal Ombudsman. We must therefore only vote on the Dutch-speaking Federal Ombudsman. Ballot papers have already been distributed. The ballots have already been distributed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. At the call of his name, each member is asked to submit his unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum, from my left to my right. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. I would point out that only ballot papers which mention the name of a candidate presented before the vote are valid and that the votes cast in favour of more than one candidate are invalid. I would point out that only the ballot papers bearing the name of a candidate proposed for the vote are valid. The votes cast on more than one candidate are invalid. I invite the two youngest members, Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langenhove, to make the roll call. I would ask the youngest two Members, Mrs Mélissa Hanus and Mr Dries Van Langenhove, to be called from the names.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u127	Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? Did everyone vote? I declare the ballot closed. I declare the vote closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u128	By e-mail of 13 February 2020, Ms. Valérie Arickx, Vice-President of the Central Prison Supervision Board, informed the House of Representatives of the death of Mr. Norbert Verleyen, an alternate member of the "Medicine of the Central Council" (mandate of Mr. Tony Vermeulen). By e-mail dated 13 February 2020, Ms Valérie Arickx, Vice-President of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners, announced the death of Mr Norbert Verleyen, Deputy Member of the Central Council, Mr Tony Vermeulen. In accordance with Article 24, § 7, paragraph 4, of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 concerning the Prison Administration and the Legal Status of Prisoners, the Chamber must without delay appoint a new alternate member when a replacement place is vacant. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 24 (7) of the Basic Law of 12 January 2005 on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees, the Chamber should immediately appoint a new alternate member in the event of the opening of an alternate member's seat. The House must therefore appoint a new alternate member for Mr. Tony Vermeulen. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new alternate member for Mr Tony Vermeulen. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 February 2020, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the term of Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Central Prison Supervision Board – as a doctor (mandate by Mr. Tony Vermeulen). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 February 2020, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of Dutch-speaking Deputy Member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service with the status of doctor ( mandate of Mr Tony Vermeulen). No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u129	Mr. Frederik Erdman resigned as a member of the Federal Ethics Commission for the category "Former Members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate". Mr Frederik Erdman resigned as a member of the Federal Deontological Commission for the category "Former members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate." Pursuant to article 10, paragraph 1, of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Ethics Commission, the Chamber is responsible for replacing Mr. Frederik Erdman for the remainder of his term of office. In accordance with Article 10 (1) of the Act of 6 January 2014 establishing a Federal Deontological Commission, the Chamber is to provide a replacement for the remainder of Mr Frederik Erdman's term of office. The Commission consists of six French-speaking members and six Dutch-speaking members, including for each linguistic role, a magistrate or professor, three former members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate and two former representatives. The committee consists of six Dutch-speaking and six French-speaking members, each of whom has one magistrate or professor, three former members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate and two former officials. A maximum of two thirds of the members shall be of the same sex. A maximum of two thirds of the members may be of the same sex. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 February 2020, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a call for Dutch-speaking candidates for the category "Former members of the House of Representatives and/or the Senate", in place of Mr Frederik Erdman. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 February 2020, I propose that you publish an appeal to Dutch-speaking candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the category "Former Members of the Chamber of Representatives and/or the Senate" to replace Mr Frederik Erdman. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u130	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 February 2020 and at the request of the authors, I propose that the following motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs: In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 19 February 2020 and at the request of the proposers, I also propose to refer the following proposal of resolution to the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration: - motion for a resolution (MM. Jef Van den Bergh and Franky Demon, Ms Nawal Farih and Mr Steven Mathei) to generalise the bicycle allowance, No 685/1. - motion for a resolution (Mr Jef Van den Bergh and Mr Franky Demon, Mrs Nawal Farih and Mr Steven Matheï) on the generalisation of the bicycle allowance, No. 685/1. This motion for a resolution had previously been sent to the Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions. This proposal for a resolution was previously sent to the Committee on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u131	You have taken note of the list of proposals that have been requested for consideration in the last agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. A supplementary list of proposals for consideration has been submitted to the Conference of Presidents. This list will also be included in the Annex to the Integral Return Account. The Conference of Presidents was informed of an additional list of proposals for consideration. This list will also be included in the Annex to the Integrated Report. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. I would also ask for consideration to be given to the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of Mrs Sophie De Wit and Mr Kristof Calvo, No. 1044/1. We will send that proposal to the Rules Committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u132	Mr Colebunders, you are asking for the floor for an urgent request?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u133	Mr President, we are asking for the urgency of our legislative proposal No. 1037/1. Last week we heard the stories of various parties on the problems of miners. I do not know anyone as patient as the miners who have been waiting 30 years for the correct payment of their pension. That's why we filed this bill. We therefore call for action to be taken and for this legislative proposal to be dealt with urgently so that, after 30 years, those people can finally get what they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u134	Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard Mr Colebunders' question of urgency. Are there any other opinions? I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u135	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group will abstain from this bill for the following reasons: firstly, with this text, we will create discrimination. It is indefensible to grant a daily supplement of at least EUR 5.63 to workers who have been unemployed economically under this law but not to other workers who are unemployed economically. The amendment proposed by the French- and Dutch-speaking socialists would have made it possible to correct this injustice. Then the cost of the measures will be returned to the community. It is therefore mainly the workers who will pay for the measures that will benefit the companies. Finally, I would like to point out that there is a transitional agreement between the United Kingdom and the European Union. We could have taken the time to settle these issues in a calm manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u137	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[55]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 81 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (880/12) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (880/12) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u138	Vote on Amendment No 26 by Sophie Rohonyi cs in recital C. (847/7) Vote on Amendment No 26 by Sophie Rohonyi cs to Recital C. (847/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 22 by Annick Ponthier cs to insert a recital S(n). (847/8) Vote on amendment No 22 by Annick Ponthier cs to insert a recital S(n). (847/ 8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[40]] Yes No. 95 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 23 by Annick Ponthier cs to insert a recital T (n). (847/8) Vote on amendment No. 23 by Annick Ponthier cs to insert a recital T(n). (847/ 8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[15]] Yes No. 119 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 24 from Annick Ponthier cs on request 1. (847/8) Vote on Amendment No 24 by Annick Ponthier cs on request 1. (847/ 8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[16]] Yes No. 95 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u139	I would have liked to have abstained, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u140	As long as it doesn't happen on a regular basis. Vote on Amendment No 25 from Annick Ponthier cs on request 6. (847/8) Vote on Amendment No 25 by Annick Ponthier cs on request 6. (847/ 8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[16]] Yes No. 95 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u141	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 119 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 16 Abstensions Total 135 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution, as amended. It will be notified to the government. (847/9) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution, as amended. This will be made known to the government. (847/9) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention. [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u142	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 135 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (581/7) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (581/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u143	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 135 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (210/6) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (210/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u144	Voters 135 Stemmen White or invalid 1 Blank or invalid Valid 134 Geldig Absolute majority 68 Perfect majority Mr. David Baele obtained 134 votes. Mr David Baele received 134 votes. Mr. Patrick De Becker obtained 0 votes. Mr Patrick De Becker received 0 votes. M. Bart Weekers a obtenu 0 voix. Mr Bart Weekers received 0 votes. Mr David Baele, who obtained 134 votes, i.e. an absolute majority, was appointed as the Dutch-speaking Federal Ombudsman. Since Mr David Baele has received 134 votes, this is the absolute majority, he has been appointed Dutch-speaking federal Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-20-55-plenair-ip025x.u145	We must approve the agenda for the next sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the next sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. I wish you a pleasant crocus week. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 5 March 2020 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, March 5, 2020 at 2:15 p.m.
