ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u1	Minister, La Libre published last January an article on subcontracting at Infrabel. We could read there that many railwaymen were concerned about this phenomenon. One can speak of a domino effect, inasmuch as the subcontractors themselves use subcontractors, who themselves use other companies, and so on – so much so that the railway workers no longer know who actually works on the rail. In short, this situation is of particular concern. For example, several sources claim that up to nine different companies may outsource certain works. It is important to stress that only the first framework contract is public. For the following, this is not mandatory. Minister, do you confirm this phenomenon? Do you agree that this is a problem in terms of transparency? Deviance can be observed in this system. Where are the limits of subcontracting? Often, construction managers can, without their knowledge – because of this cascading system – "employ" undeclared people. Several testimonies of railway workers go in this direction and denounce the presence of foreign workers, not speaking any national language. This is obviously problematic not only for their own safety, but also for the safety of others. Minister, can you confirm these testimonies? Security measures in outsourced activities must be equivalent to those taken during tasks performed by Infrabel. However, railway workers report discrepancies on the part of these subcontractors: for example, non-compliance with night work schedules. Are you considering a more in-depth examination of this situation with a view to finding solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u2	Mr Minister, I refer to the same article in La Libre which stated that there is concern among railway workers about the large number of works outsourced to subcontractors. You know that in 2017 several accidents occurred with railway workers from Infrabel but also with subcontractors. The investigation showed that there is a need for closer cooperation with accident prevention between Infrabel, the Confederation of Construction and the railway operators. There is also a need for a joint risk analysis of SNCB and Infrabel to avoid accidents involving railway workers. Minister, how many external companies are currently being called on by Infrabel to work on the railways? What works are outsourced? Is it true that companies designated by Infrabel to carry out works themselves also work with subcontractors? Does Infrabel always have a view of who exactly does work and under what conditions? Why is Infrabel spending works? Have workers from outside companies working on railways received safety training similar to Infrabel's railway staff? Since the massification of the works, as a result of which work on the railways is carried out during the day, are more subcontractors involved than before?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u3	Colleagues, subcontracting is a legal practice that is not confined to Belgium or the rail sector. This is not a choice for Infrabel, which is naturally subject to public procurement regulations. The presence and number of subcontractors in the rail sector depend on the operations to be carried out and on the public contracts that have been awarded. In the case of Infrabel, subcontracted activities are mainly activities that do not fit into the core business of maintenance teams such as weed removal, slope and vegetation maintenance, certain high-tech tasks requiring specific equipment or skills, support services or targeted maintenance operations to cope with peak workloads. The legislation is clear: any company wishing to submit a tender for a public contract must provide proof that it is socially and fiscally sound. In all cases, the undertaking receiving the contract should ensure that its subcontractors, if any, comply with the law. As far as the language problem is concerned, Infrabel confirms to me that the contracts it uses require the knowledge of the language spoken in the yard's language area. So far, nothing abnormal has come to light. Compliance with the safety rules is of the utmost importance for Infrabel and will not tolerate any exceptions. The rules apply both to railway workers and to all subcontractors. For the rest, strategic maintenance activities are not outsourced. All maintenance checks and visits are carried out exclusively by Infrabel staff, as are most of the interviews. Finally, only Infrabel's personnel are authorized to perform the safety functions of technical train operators, factioners, work train escorts, road-rail crane attendants and workers responsible for carrying out the work. Any person working in a yard must be in possession of valid documents and must be identifiable with a badge stating his identity and employer. Each employee does not receive his badge until he has followed a safety briefing. Failure to wear the badge is a reason to be excluded from the railway domain. At the Infrabel shipyards, inspections are carried out by supervisors to ensure that basic safety rules are complied with. In the case of outsourced activities, the security measures are obviously applicable, as in the case of all activities directly carried out by Infrabel. The same level of safety is therefore ensured for all operations, regardless of the type of personnel performing the work. Finally, with regard to recruitment of staff, Infrabel may sometimes face recruitment difficulties at the local level, particularly for technical profiles. Nevertheless, the company is taking many initiatives to remedy this, including through the organization of Job Days. Any abuses found are reported directly to the company, but to date no abuses have been detected or brought to its knowledge.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u4	Minister, thank you. Listening to you, I guess everything's fine. Even if this is a legal practice, I believe that the cascading subcontracting of markets, whether public or private, is a source of opacity and a decrease in monitoring. As a result, these practices are unfair and favour Belgian and European workers treated as loss of income. In my view, sanctions against sponsors must be strengthened at all levels of power. Indeed, when I read the press articles – unless they are distorted – I have the impression that the staff in question are not on the construction sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. What has struck me is the fact that Infrabel itself does not have a direct view of the subcontractors' subcontractors. However, it is confirmed that practice does occur. It is important to have certainty at that level about, inter alia, technical competence and compliance with the safety rules. You have not answered my question as to whether the number of works tendered has increased in recent years. If you cannot answer that now, I will put the question in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u6	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir 2411 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u7	Madam President, Minister, suicides and attempted suicides on the Belgian railway network are a dramatic phenomenon. From a human point of view, first of all, for the victims, their relatives, but also for the railway workers. From a safety point of view then, since access to the tracks is prohibited. And finally, from the point of view of the punctuality of the trains. According to Infrabel's 2018 annual safety report, 81% of the number of victims (died or injured) on the rail in Belgium are the result of suicide. In 2018, 93 people committed suicide on our network, i.e. one person every four days. For several years, however, Infrabel has been implementing both technical and awareness-raising measures to prevent such suicides. Technical measures include the laying of 14,162 kilometres of fences, the installation of blue lamps in nine stations and thermal cameras in three hotspots. These three projects were to be completed, according to the report, in 2019, while other measures, such as improved dock lighting and vegetation clearing, are being taken on an ongoing basis. These measures are obviously welcome, but are still insufficient, as the number of suicides has remained stable for several years and the number of suicide attempts has been steadily increasing since 2013. Therefore, Minister, can you let me know if an evaluation of the effectiveness of the measures taken so far is planned? How do you explain that despite these measures, the number of suicides does not ultimately decrease? Could the hotspot security projects be completed in 2019, as planned? If not, why not? How have the hotspots to secure been identified? Is it a fixed list or is the identification work still under way? What is the status of the removal of level crossings that are a source of great insecurity? Is an assessment of the blue lamps installed at four hotspot stations (Ypres, Kortenberg, Peruwelz and Dave-Saint-Martin) planned? What measures have been put in place in terms of psychological support for railway workers (train drivers, station staff, operators responsible for re-establishing traffic, rescue personnel) who are directly confronted with these suicides?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u8	Dear colleague, Infrabel informs me that it is too early to analyse the effectiveness of the measures taken recently and which are still in progress. Indeed, several years are necessary in order to have a sufficient step backwards to decide. However, the measures taken in some hotspots already show a decrease in the problem. Infrabel collaborates on this issue with various actors such as municipalities, police areas, psychiatric centres and SNCB. The measures taken in the hotspots defined in the 2012 and 2016 studies are still in progress. With regard to the installation of blue lamps at the station, five stations were equipped in 2019, four stations still have to be equipped. With regard to the installation of rigid fencing in the full track to prevent access to the tracks, 75% of the areas are now secure, also with the installation of cameras with intrusion detection. Hotspots are identified every four years. The first study dates from 2012 and is followed by the 2016 study. This year's news will follow. The aim is to see to what extent the number of hotspots increases or decreases and whether the areas initially located are still problematic or whether the phenomenon moves. The methodology was developed in partnership with ULB and UCL. A final assessment is planned for 2023-2024 in order to have an eight-year comparison sample. Interim evaluations shall be carried out annually. The results are encouraging and vary from site to site. For the rest, Infrabel and SNCB have taken the decision to stop communicating about suicides on the rail, including the psychological accompaniment of railway workers. This decision was taken in particular at the request of suicide prevention organizations with which the two societies cooperate closely. With regard to the abolition of level crossings, Infrabel eliminates an average of 17 crossings per year. At the beginning of 2020, there are still 1,700 level crossings on the Belgian rail network.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u9	Mr Minister, I am very pleased to hear that a great deal of security work is under way on the Belgian network as a whole and that this is done in collaboration with a number of actors, including the police areas, to ensure that this is done in the most effective way possible. At the same time, however, I mean that it is too early to achieve results as to the true effectiveness of the measures put in place and that other measures have been commissioned. We're going to have to be patient and we're going to be patient. Always it is that you say at the same time that you have results that vary according to the sites. So we still have results. I would be interested to know how these results vary. Perhaps we can analyze the reasons why some sites have been more secure than others. You are referring to the fact that certain information cannot be disclosed to us, at the request of suicide prevention organizations. You have already communicated this information under the previous legislature to one of our Members. I was aware of this, but here, the question was to hear from you about the measures taken to avoid these suicides and not about suicides as such. As you said, however, some results may be useful to us as part of our work. I therefore call on you to continue your efforts and even to redouble your efforts, in particular by paying attention to certain areas, including those from which I came, i.e. the suburban areas on the outskirts of the major cities. Indeed, some reports indicate that the frequency of suicides in these areas is particularly important. These are areas where the population density is quite large and at the same time, the building is fairly dispersed. It is therefore particularly difficult in these areas to secure the network and ensure that suicides are prevented to the maximum extent possible. I invite you to pay particular attention to these areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u10	Hotspots have been identified very clearly. They are in close proximity to the psycho-medical-social institutes, where action has therefore been taken. Others will be further strengthened. I am thinking here of the removal, at least in two places, of level crossings, which will be replaced by a permanent fence. On the other hand, as you rightly say, the railway area is very wide with 3,800 kilometres of track. There are also phenomena that are not localizable as such because it happens throughout the paths. When people are skillful or subtle, they always find a place to pass. In hindsight, it will be necessary to see whether the measures that have been proposed are effective. I am thinking here, in particular, of the arrangements to be made in the vicinity of the four psycho-medical-social institutes. It seems to me that it is. But there is still work to be done, such as the removal of the two crossings. As I have just said, we will have to see what measures are effective. This is the case for the removal of level crossings, but indirectly because this is often the case. But when it's in the middle of the way, it's a little difficult. Indeed, a person who walks along the routes cannot be prevented from accessing them. We are talking here about suicide prevention, but there are also all the accident phenomena. Accidents often occur where suicides occur, probably because there is greater ease of access or because – for social reasons – you cross paths more easily. It is sometimes difficult to distinguish between these two types of fatal accidents. Infrabel uses new technologies such as cameras, laser rays, etc. But it will take a number of years to know the most effective measures. However, I wanted to clarify the situation and provide you with information in response to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u11	Mr Minister, in my written question of 16 October on the planned closure of negotiations in the province of Antwerp, I asked you for a list of the considerations that Infrabel wishes to close. We all know that this list exists, because from different municipalities we get feedback that Infrabel appears at the table with that data, often when it comes to bicycle ostrades and the like, in which Infrabel explains what the plan is for each of the relevant considerations. Of course, this is very fragmentary, but it has a very big impact every time a road is closed. It is therefore important for us to be able to control the policy choices that Infrabel puts forward. You're responsible for Infrabel. I think it is important that we can talk about this here. However, I note in the answer to my question that you do not wish to go into that. You're making it look like that list isn't even there. That's why I'm asking the question here. Why do you not want to give Parliament the vision that Infrabel has on the various considerations? What are you appealing to not deliver that list? Are you prepared to make that information known so that we can work with it transparently?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u12	Dear colleague, Infrabel lets me know that she frequently consults with municipal authorities about the reflections on their territory. This is done on the basis of target image studies: what can the rail crossings in a given municipality look like within a given period of time? Early consultation is necessary because both the mobility vision and spatial planning have an important impact on the possible future abolition of consideration. However, the targets do not imply any commitment to immediate implementation. Infrabel has confirmed to me that no abolitions of consideration are planned for the year 2020 in the province of Antwerp. Longer-term planning will depend on the resources available in Infrabel's next multi-annual investment plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u13	Minister, this is very difficult to work because Infrabel waves lists locally: of each railway line, it has made an integral vision of what will be closed, what will be considered undertunnel and which will be looked at in a different way. Meanwhile, other levels of policy are making decisions based on this information, which means that they no longer pay bike path subsidies on certain routes, for example, because Infrabel has said that the road is closing. You say that that vision may never even be realized. This has a major impact and I would recommend that you make this information available to the transport regions at least in Flanders, because they are making plans at regional level today. As long as they don't have that information, it's going to be very difficult to work. I'll stay behind you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u14	Madam Chair, Minister, this issue dates back to the end of January. At the time, it was echoed in the press of the fatal accident of a construction worker broke by a vehicle. The question of the safety of roadworks on motorways had then resurfaced, especially for workers who work at night on construction sites where many vehicles no longer comply with speed limits. They therefore work in permanent danger. Only night work sites that are closed to traffic for a few hours are considered secure. It comes to my mind that our neighbouring countries often resort to the temporary closure of the sections under construction in order to protect their workers at best. In Belgium, this is rather the exception, whereas this approach seems very sensible to me. Minister, following this recent accident, has there been any thought about strengthening safety measures, particularly on highway areas? If so, how can certain construction sites be secured? If this practice is relevant, how many times has it been used in previous years?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, since the sixth reform of the State, the Regions have become responsible for the placement of road signs. This jurisdiction includes, in particular, the provisions of the Ministerial Decree of 7 May 1999 on the marking of construction sites and obstacles on public roads. In addition, the Regions have competence in infrastructure management. It is in this capacity that they plan and organise construction sites on motorways. I am therefore not entitled to express my views on the current safety situation in the yards or on the measures that should be taken, as these are regional competences, in accordance, of course, with the Road Traffic Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u16	Minister, I'm going to be honest. I asked if this question was admissible. I was told that even with the transfer of skills, some aspects may not yet have been clarified with respect to certain responsibilities. I don't want to sound like someone who doesn't know the division of skills in our country. Next time, I would like to be denied it, because I specifically asked if it was admissible in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u17	Mr Minister, a night train connection between Brussels and Vienna has recently been established. While this form of travel is gaining momentum, Belgium is struggling to follow the movement for lack of resources and will. However, many consider the night train as a serious alternative to aircraft for international travel. Indeed, the train would be far ahead of air transport, especially from an ecological point of view. Do you consider this first line opening a success? If so, could new lines be reopened? In which direction are these tracks oriented?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u18	Dear colleague, there are two rail options for international medium- and long-distance connections, namely fast trains and night trains. The latter have almost disappeared in Europe due to a lack of travellers. At the time, our country made the bet of high speed and made significant investments in the TGV infrastructure, which now allows Brussels to be a few hours away from many major European cities and capitals. In addition, new links are opened regularly, the latest being Bordeaux. SNCB and I remain attentive to the development of the night train market, which is a possibility on conventional lines. SNCB continues to respond to requests for international partnership when requested. After the applicant has submitted a commercial file, SNCB reviews the file and responds positively to it in cases where it is of commercial interest. This is the case in the case of the night train between Vienna and Brussels. I would remind you that the Nightjet project is part of the international passenger transport market, which has been liberalised since 2010, and is therefore part of SNCB's commercial activities. European legislation allows grants to open access operators, provided that there is a specific legal basis and that State aid legislation is respected, subject to prior agreement by the European Commission. This legal basis does not currently exist for passenger traffic. It could be envisaged by a future government, in agreement with the European authorities. However, since these would be significant operating costs that would affect the operator's overall budget, it would be preferable to wait for a first feedback on the success of night trains in service for the time being before embarking on new projects. Any aid for these lines could be deducted from the support for domestic traffic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u19	Many uncertainties remain, as we must prepare for the liberalisation of the rail market in 2024, including for the transport of people. You mentioned some interesting leads. I hope that one or the other can be taken into account when concrete projects are finally discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u20	Mr Minister, the inhabitants of Ans learned on 31 December that 300 parking spaces, which were previously free of charge, would be paid as early as 27 January. Last year, an identical measure was adopted for the 410 seats in the SNCB parking lot at the Huy station, causing the discontent of the mayor, the population and the commuters. The reason given by Infrabel was to guarantee parking spaces for SNCB users and to prevent parking from being squatted by residents. However, is it really a service to offer a parking space of 40 euros per month when many of our fellow citizens face difficult budgetary constraints? One place at 1.32 euro a day, at a time when the climate emergency has to push us to promote soft mobility, is this really a good choice? As a result, the parking lot at the Huy station has been deserted since the implementation of this measure. The nearby streets are now saturated by commuters' cars, residents no longer find a place and municipalities are obliged to put in place alternative solutions such as blue areas. All signals indicate the ineffectiveness of this measure, in any case in relation to these two car parks, and the general discontent of the authorities, the residents and the commuters. Do you intend to enter into discussions with SNCB to reconsider its position? Are you considering asking SNCB to enter into discussions with the mayors of Ans and Huy with a view to providing an efficient and effective response? We can have common goals and other solutions can be devised to achieve them. Do you intend to request a moratorium pending a detailed report on the effectiveness or otherwise of this measure? As a municipalist in the city of Waremme, I would finally like to ask you whether such a measure is envisaged in my city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u21	Colleagues, when SNCB sets up a paid car park, this is done in consultation with the local authorities, in particular in order to jointly draw up a mobility plan and implement the additional accompanying measures. The setting up of a blue area with a riparian map around a station parking lot is an example of a solution to prevent commuters from invading roads near the station. SNCB also proposes to pool infrastructure during periods when parking is less used by SNCB customers, i.e. evenings and weekends. This makes it possible, for example, to offer free parking at the stations during the various local festivities, a reduced rate for night tickets for residents, etc. According to SNCB, making a parking fee has never led to a decrease in the number of passengers, as the real lever that attracts new customers lies in the railway offer of the station. The aim is to encourage the use of public transport for the home-to-gare journey. SNCB's parking strategy, which has been in place for almost ten years, has demonstrated its effectiveness. It aims to improve the service to customers by guaranteeing them a parking space. As far as Ans station is concerned, the SNCB informs me that the two car parks at the station are saturated. This saturation is due, among other things, to the use of these car parks by residents and customers of nearby businesses, with the result that SNCB's customers could no longer find a place in SNCB's car parks. Meetings were held with the municipality for more than two years to coordinate the implementation of access control. With regard to the Huy station, several meetings were also held with the local authorities in order to prepare for the introduction of access controls and their impact on mobility. SNCB had suggested setting up a blue zone based on the experience of other car parks. The city finally decided to install this blue zone two and a half years after the parking of the station became paid. As far as the car park at Angleur station is concerned, no planning has been confirmed to date. With regard to the parking lot at Waremme station, it currently does not meet the criteria to make it pay. If saturation was found, which would no longer allow SNCB customers to find a place, the implementation of access controls would be considered in consultation with the city.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u22	Minister, I hear you are talking about a consultation of the SNCB with the mayors. But my colleagues, Mr Philippin and Mr Collignon, unfortunately did not provide me with the same information. The consultation was limited to information on the option taken up by Infrabel, leaving the mayors the difficult role of taking measures to guarantee mobility within their entity and to ensure the balance between the different functions – for the residents, for commuters and for people outside the city. Yes, blue areas have been established, especially in Huy. But it's an answer that they didn't have the choice to implement because we had to avoid – and that's what I was telling you – the opposite effect of your measure to know not that the residents will squat the SNCB car parks but the commuters who will squat the street since the prohibitive cost of SNCB parking discourages each other from going there. So there's no decrease in commuters, but a decrease in parking and that's a fact. So you have empty parking spaces and, as a result, you have not met the needs of commuters. Therefore, the measure is counterproductive in relation to environmental and climate challenges. It is ineffective: SNCB car parks are empty and adjacent streets are saturated. It is fiscally unfair to those who may have no choice but to take public transport. In the options, if the objective is to guarantee availability, at least the parking must be included in the ticket price of the commuters. In view of the communal consequences, a railway station is certainly an opportunity for a municipality but it is also a burden in various respects such as safety, mobility, maintenance of the surroundings... I therefore call on our fellow municipalists to apply the rules governing private car parks in this case, namely a tax on the operation of car parks, which will compensate for the inconvenience of SNCB's choice, which is a problem for the municipalities today, which is provided for in a Walloon circular on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u23	70% of parking users have a subscription reimbursed by the employer. The average cost per day of a parking area is 1.10 to 1.50 euro with the guarantee to find a place. Because in many places, since the municipalities have regulated the parking lot or the parking space is not sufficient near the stations, people park on the SNCB parking lot, so much so that the commuters who subscribe to it can no longer find a place there and take their car to reach the next station to take their train. They make an extra trip and therefore pay more to have a place in the parking lot of the next station. That doesn't make sense. SNCB builds SNCB car parks for its customers. When a department store builds a parking lot, it's for its customers. When a sports hall provides parking, it's for its accessibility. I know several sports clubs that regulate their parking lot depending on whether you're a member of the club or not. It's the same for SNCB. It is logical that SNCB reserves and favours its customers, which are essentially subscribers. However, most employers take over the subscription, including the parking lot. I want to shed some light on the statistics. Here I take the example of a commune which has built a large subdivision next to the station without providing sufficient parking spaces. The buyers were told that they would have the opportunity to park in the parking lot at the station. The day after, when the block of 100 apartments was occupied, there was no longer a single free space in the SNCB parking lot. As a result, it was necessary to regulate. Today, people turn against SNCB, while it was the city that told them that there was no need for parking spaces in the project, since, next to it, there is SNCB's free parking. This is the case on a case-by-case basis. As I told you, in Waremme, there is no need today. In Ans, if my memory is good, we plan to build a car park of nearly 400 places at the back of the station to relieve congestion. We can't make everything free. At some point, SNCB must be attentive to its travellers as well as in concert. You're saying there was only one contact. I can only answer you what I have been told.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u24	Minister, again, you're comparing SNCB to a private company. SNCB is a public service. The measure to guarantee access to the parking lot for commuters is of course commendable. On the other hand, for a public service, the measure is unfair. There are, on the one hand, those who may be able to afford the parking and, on the other hand, there are those who take the train because it is free – and that is so much better – but cannot afford the parking. You take them hostage otherwise. You report that they were taken hostage by the residents. Here, the SNCB takes them hostage. As far as the municipalities are concerned, I understand that in Waremme, SNCB chose not to charge the parking lot. In view of the state in which it is located, it is indeed not near to arrive. He's impassable. However, it is also a service that SNCB must provide to citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u25	Madam President, Minister, I would like to go back to the figures recently released by SNCB to praise the performance of its trains in 2019. While society has focused on the progress made in terms of attendance and punctuality, it remains that behind these figures lies a reality that is not taken into account optimally, namely that of punctuality in peak hours. Thus, according to the commuters.be site, train delays on this time slot are not properly accounted for. Punctuality at peak hours would be well below the 90% figure advanced by SNCB. In this connection, I would like to draw your attention to the train Mons-Bruxelles of 7.35 a.m. which, according to the shuttles.be website and the Sudpresse editions, would only be on time once in three. Over all peak hours, punctuality would be only 73.3% for this line. These figures are, to say the least, intriguing and deserve to be explained. Minister, can you confirm to me the delays pointed out by commuters.be regarding the 7:35 train between Mons and Brussels? Could you indicate the punctuality rate of trains at peak times on this Mons-Brussels line in 2019? In view of the above rates, are measures envisaged to improve punctuality at peak times on lines 96 and 97 linking Quévy, Quiévrain, Mons and Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u26	Madam President, Mr Thiébaut, the figures published recently concern punctuality from a global point of view. They take trains into account in peak hours, but do not assign them an additional value depending on their occupation. "The train to which we are alluded poses a particular problem," informs SNCB. It recorded a good punctuality of 95.2% from Quévy to Braine-le-Comte, but the latter fell considerably, reaching 60.2% between Braine-le-Comte and Brussels-Nord. The reason for this difference is the very dense traffic between Hal and Brussels-Midi, for which the slightest delay causes a snowball effect. The improvement of the overall punctuality of the line requires a recasting of the transport plan. Analyses are under way at SNCB to find a solution. Indeed, the train route is inserted in several fixed relationships, so very difficult to modify. Pending a definitive solution, the train is subject to a specific programme of analysis and monitoring. The peak punctuality figures are 78.5% for the morning peak and 85.1% for the vesperal peak. The overall punctuality of the Quévy-Mons-Bruxelles line is 90.7 per cent, a 2.5% more punctuality than in 2018. However, it must be borne in mind that all the trains are taken into account here: both the ICs and the Ps. The one you refer to belongs, in my opinion, to this last category, which comes into the IC offer of all the regular trains. However, they are a priority over him. At the end of 2018, we asked SNCB and Infrabel to make an effort in terms of punctuality. They have identified a number of trains, including the one on the particular problem that needs to be addressed. It can only be found between Braine-le-Comte and Brussels-Nord, since, before Braine, the situation seems "satisfactory".
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is obvious that the commuter who takes the train to Mons for Brussels is not interested in the fact that the train arrives on time at Braine-le-Comte. Sometimes I have the feeling that SNCB is overwhelming its performance with regard to the perception of commuters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u28	Madam President, I still have a question No 55003375C in point 32 of the agenda. Can I put it down now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u29	Mr. Thiébaut, there are many questions that are transformed into written questions or that fall.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u30	So I'm waiting, don't worry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u31	Debates of the European Parliament Ms Buyst's 55003006C had already been discussed at the previous meeting. Debates of the European Parliament 55003012C, 55003013C and 55003014C are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 55003033C was postponed to 4 p.m. at his request. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Arens's 55003064C was converted into a written question. Mrs Chanson and Mr Ben Accour are not present for their combined questions. 55003081C and 55003125C. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Roggeman's 55003189C and 55003190C were postponed for illness. Debates of the European Parliament 55003253C and 55003256C by Mr Hedebouw are converted into written questions. Mr Ben Accour is not present for his question No. 55003293C. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Piedboeuf's 55003300C is converted into a written question. Mr Verduyckt is not present for his question No. 55003312C. We'll wait a little longer. Debates of the European Parliament 55003316C by Mrs Dedonder will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55003317C and 55003318C are converted into written questions. Mr Raskin is not present for his questions. 55003771C and 55003327C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u32	Mr. Minister, in the municipality of Ottenburg of the main municipality of Huldenberg, the Omni-directional range station "HUL" has been located for decades. That's a transmitter station for accurate radio navigation, a tool for aviation. With the new and contemporary navigational means, the use and therefore the importance of radio navigation have almost disappeared. Today, the systems only serve as a backup system, in case the modern means of communication and navigation are not available. The radio beacon HUL is managed by skeyes and I hear it needs a thorough renovation. That renovation would cost EUR 2 million, so I was told. That's why I have the following questions. Does the radio beacon HUL need to be renovated soon? If it is to be renovated, how much are the estimated costs of the renovation? What is the policy of skeyes for maintaining the radio beacons on Belgian territory? How many such radio beacons currently have skeyes under his control? How much are the annual maintenance costs to keep those beacons operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u33	The radionavigation beacon DVOR/DME HUL was renovated in the period from 13 November 2019 to 13 December 2019, as part of a DVOR/DME renewal project that has been running at skeyes for several years. The DVOR/DME renewal project of skeyes consists of building a forward-looking DVOR/DME radionavigation beacon file that takes into account a reduced importance of the DVOR component of the beacon. After all, the navigation specifications imposed by Europe have evolved from a beacon to beacon route system to a route system describing navigation performance, the performance based navigation. The new radio navigation aids, known as GPS in aviation, allow aircraft to follow their trajectory much more accurately compared to the time when the GPS technology was much less visible on board the aircraft. The accuracy of a DVOR signal is not sufficient to be used efficiently in this PBN. Therefore, renovating this DVOR beacons in large numbers is not efficient. Therefore, skeyes has set out the minimum operational network for DVOR as the basis of the DVOR/DME renewal project. For example, only five DVOR/DME beacons are completely renewed. These are chosen each time so that they can be used by an aircraft in distress to find the airports of Zaventem, Charleroi, Liège, Antwerp or Ostend and to put the aircraft safely on the ground. In addition to the DVOR component of the DVOR/DME radio navigation beacon, there is the DME component. The DME radio navigation beacon has the necessary accuracy and is fully compatible with the new European PBN requirements. In addition, the DME beacons are complementary to the GPS system, which allows the so-called DME navigation techniques to be used to meet the PBN requirements. Even when the GPS system is not available, aircraft equipped with DME navigation can still navigate according to the proposed PBN route, for example in the case of a broken GPS antenna on board. Therefore, all 12 DME navigation beacons are renewed. The estimated costs for the renovation are as follows: A full DVOR/DME station costs 500,000 euros. A DME-only station costs 250,000 euros. For the 12 sites a joint support contract has been entered into for an estimated cost of 1 million euros for a duration of 12 years. This amounts to an estimated annual cost of 83.333 euros for the 5 DVOR and 12 DME beacons. There is a contractual warranty period of three years on a beacon, which makes the total intended life of a radio navigation beacon 15 years. At present there are 14 DVOR/DME radionavigation beacons operating in Belgian airspace: COA, BUB, LGE, ANT, GSY, FLO, NIK, HUL, BUN, LNO, SPI, AFI, CIV and KOK. After the implementation of the DVOR/DME renewed project, Belgian airspace will have the following new beacons: 5 DVOR/DME radionavigation beacons and 7 DME-only radionavigation beacons. I can give you the location. Only after the adaptation, implementation and publication of all PB navigation procedures will skeyes be able to evolve to the DVOR Minimum Operational Network with only 5 DVOR/DME beacons and 7 DME-only beacons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u34	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive and expert answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u35	Madam President, Minister, I was recently questioned by commuters who were worried about rumours that rail traffic would be interrupted between Verviers and Liège during the Easter holidays. Very quickly, this rumour was confirmed in the local press by Infrabel's spokesman. Initially, some even announced eight weeks of cessation in the summer. On this last point, however, appeasements have been brought, and fortunately, they have been brought. Thus, there will be no trains running between Verviers and Liège for two weeks due to the renewal of the tracks which will take place between Trooz and Pepinster. Another project will be set up at the same time between Spa and Pepinster for the maintenance of bridges and tunnels. I insist that this will be done at the same time. Here too, it will be necessary to accommodate a stop in train traffic. The population of an entire region will therefore be deprived of public transport to reach the main cities of the country. The proposed alternative seems a little complicated to us. It would be a matter of taking a train to Welkenraedt, in the opposite direction, therefore, a city where passengers will be able to board an IC which, via the Nord loop, will connect Liège and Brussels via Visé. The result: a journey whose duration will increase in my opinion by an hour and a half, including a train change. A worker to travel to Brussels will be unable to reach this city at reasonable times. Indeed, the first train to Welkenraedt leaving Verviers would depart only at 0742 hours. Of course, there is no question for me here of questioning the merits of these operations without doubt necessary, but I would nevertheless like to ask you a number of questions. Do you confirm the information in the press? Can you assure that these two weeks will be sufficient? This is an important point. Is transit through Welkenraedt really the only possible alternative? In this case, could it be considered to advance the first departure for this station to allow commuters to arrive at their work within reasonable hours? Will the parking tickets for the Verviers station be valid during these two weeks for parking at the Welkenraedt and Liège stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u36	The infrastructure manager Infrabel informs me that he will actually take advantage of the Easter holidays to carry out a series of construction projects on line 37. This period was privileged to reduce the number of travellers affected by the consequences of this work, with students on leave. On the other hand, Infrabel simultaneously carries out multidisciplinary work on the line to improve its quality and safety. In order to transport passengers from and to Liège-Guillemins, several alternatives will be put in place. Following the diversion of the 01 Ostend-Eupen ICs between Liège-Guillemins and Welkenraedt, the trains of this relationship will not serve the Verviers-Central stop. In compensation, a train shuttle connecting with IC 01 will run between Welkeraedt and Verviers-Central. This shuttle will also serve the Dolhain-Gileppe and Verviers-Palais stop points. In parallel and following the limitation of the trains of the S 41 relationship between Liège-Guillemins, Verviers-Central and Trooz, an alternative bus service will be introduced from Trooz to allow customers to continue their journey from and to Pepinster. These buses will be in correspondence with the L 09 Pepinster-Aachen relationship for customers wishing to go to Verviers-Central. However, SNCB invites Verviers' customers to prefer scheduled train shuttles in correspondence with IC 01 trains departing from Welkenraedt and diverted to Liège-Guillemins. This is, despite the hijacking of IC 01, the most comfortable alternative requiring only one match to reach Verviers-Central. The hourly amplitude of the shuttle between Verviers-Central and Welkenraedt in correspondence with the trains of the hijacked IC 01 relationship was insufficient and did not allow to reach Liège early enough for commuters going to work. Since then, SNCB has adapted the shuttle schedules to take account of the magnitude of the circulation of the IC 01 relationship. From now on, a first departure of the shuttle is planned at 0442 hours from Verviers-Central to Welkenraedt, allowing commuters to take the first train IC Liège-Guillemins-Brussels-Midi. The evening amplitude was also extended to allow travellers to return in the evening to Verviers-Central. A final departure is thus planned from Welkeraedt to Verviers-Central at 0112 hours. Despite the heavy constraints, SNCB has endeavoured to provide a reliable alternative for all passengers on line 37. Parking at Welkenraedt Train Station is free of charge. As far as Liège is concerned, SNCB may allow Verviers subscription holders to park in the parking lot of the rue du Plan inclined in Liège.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u37	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u38	Minister, a small month ago an incident occurred in which a passenger got stuck in a train door for about ten seconds. Thanks to the help of another passenger, the lady could be liberated. That incident raises questions. Most people today assume that there is a security system at automatic doors, so that something like this can't happen. In the newspaper I read that SNCB takes the incident seriously and investigates it internally. Firstly, are the automatic train doors equipped with an alarm that ensures that such a thing cannot happen in principle, or is that only for certain types of train sets? Is it possible, in principle, that a train could leave and start driving when someone is squeezed between a door? Secondly, what is the role of the train attendant? Is he or she supposed to check before a train leaves? Maybe the procedure wasn't followed here? Thirdly, do such incidents happen more often? Are there any figures on that? Finally, has the internal investigation already started? Are there any results of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that she was already in contact with the customer. The file is currently being examined by the Legal Service. SNCB has given me a very detailed answer to your question about the circumstances of the incident. I'll give you the answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u40	I thank the Minister for the detailed written reply. I'll read it quietly and find out what just happened. Looks like a minor incident, but it could have serious consequences. We need to work to ensure that something like this happens as little as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament 55003346C and 55003357C by Mrs Dedonder have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u42	Mr Minister, my question concerns the train link between Ghent-Dampoort and Zelzate, line 204. This is a Belgian industrial line that connects Ghent and Zelzate. The line is 15 kilometers long and runs through the port of Ghent and past companies like Euro-Silo, Volvo Car and Arcelor Mittal. More than 20,000 people work in the port of Ghent and almost all of them go to work today, as there is hardly any public transport to the industrial area. However, rail line 204 could be converted fairly easily for mixed use. As a result, passengers could be transported between Gent-Dampoort and Zelzate, with different stops in the port. This project would relieve traffic on the Kennedylaan and also have a positive effect on air quality in Zelzate, Ertvelde, Desteltonk and the entire Ghent periphery, if the workers of the port could use the train between Ghent and Zelzate. The project would also reduce fine dust emissions in the Ghent Canal Zone and provide opportunities for better mobility throughout the port area. By developing that rail line with passenger transport, there would be long-term opportunities to relieve traffic from the centre of Ghent through park-and-ride zones in the port area. SNCB had included the introduction of a passenger train between Zelzate and Ghent in its investment plan 2015-2025. Everyone is asking for passenger transport by rail between Ghent and Zelzate: the inhabitants of Ghent and Zelzate, the employees of the port, the Dutch government and many companies. Only Infrabel may now not carry out the necessary investments necessary to carry out this project, resulting in a total standstill of the file of line 204. Mr Minister, was the passenger train between Zelzate and Ghent included in SNCB's investment plans 2015/2015/2025? Was the Ghent-Zelzate line one of SNCB's priority investments in Flanders? Are you going to instruct Infrabel and SNCB to develop line 204 into a passenger line as well? Wouldn't this socially important project already be realised if Infrabel and SNCB were to function as a company?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u43	With regard to the railway project 204, the strategic investment plan 2018-2031 already provides funds for a feasibility study on passenger transport on the current industrial railway 204 and for the abolition of consideration on line 204 with co-financing of the Flemish Region. Infrabel informs me that the specifications of the study for the railway lines 204 and 58 are almost complete. The necessary consultations with the Flemish Region were held in advance on the methodology to be followed and the data to be used. According to Infrabel, this will improve the later comparability of the subdivision. In addition, at the end of 2017, the Federal Council of Ministers decided to spend the funds released for electrification of the railway line 19 Mol-Hamont, if the EU subsidies are actually acquired, preferably on the railway project 204, through the conclusion of an additional executive cooperation agreement between the federal government and the Flemish Region. During a first information consultation on the evaluation of the cooperation agreement on 17 February 2020, my cabinet took note of the proposal of the representatives of the Flemish Region to reorient the funds released, in accordance with the decision of the Federal Council of Ministers, to the construction of two track cookers. These tubes should allow the intersection of a possible future extension of the current rail line 204 to the north with the R4 ring road and the E34 motorway. Infrabel was asked to make a simulation, in collaboration with the Flemish working company, of the expenditure planning for this project and its impact on the distribution key between the Regions as laid down in the cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u44	Mr. Secretary, do you have a date for the start of the work?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u45	We've asked Infrabel to tell us when exactly one can start.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u46	Minister, since the beginning of my term of office in 2007, I have regularly relayed the criticisms of the commuters of Mons-Borinage against the lamentable state of some small stations located on line 97 between Quiévrain and Mons. If several of them will be the subject of a reassignment project – I am thinking in particular of the station of Boussu which will be restored following the conclusion of an emhyteotic lease with SNCB – others, on the other hand, are completely abandoned. This is particularly the case of the Quiévrain train station, which is limited to an old building of the 19th century, completely closed, screened with tags and abandoned. I have been there recently and I can tell you that the spectacle inflicted on the many commuters, students and residents is distressing and even repulsive. At a time when citizens are being encouraged to abandon their cars for the benefit of public transport, this situation can no longer be sustained. Every effort should be made to make the stations more attractive. This is not the case here. Minister, I know that contacts have taken place in the past between SNCB and the local authorities in Quiévrain. What about today? Are there still opportunities for collaboration? More generally, is it not in the interest of SNCB to take initiatives in order to establish fruitful collaboration with private or public operators with a view to reviving old abandoned small stations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u47	Dear colleague, for many years, SNCB's will has been to value the sites of its stations. Since the arrival of a new general manager, the company has begun to pay much more attention to the upgrading, the adaptation of stop points and stations and the standardization of equipment. Various projects have been completed, such as the one at the Boussu station, which you mentioned. As far as the Quiévrain railway station is concerned, several initiatives have been developed both with the private sector and with the municipality. However, no agreement was reached on the sale or resumption of the building. In 2017, a private amateur had shown interest and a sales compromise had even been drafted. But after the compromise was drafted, the buyer no longer manifested himself. For its part, the municipality had shown an interest in the acquisition of the building, but it did not have the necessary credits for such a purchase and would not have obtained any subsidies for the future development of the building. In all cases, the municipal authorities have always been informed and involved in the steps taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u48	Following a number of information, we asked SNCB to put the site on sale in 2020 via a new market consultation. If it were not to succeed, a more radical solution would then be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u49	Minister, you're telling me we're going to relaunch a public sale for the entire site. Can you tell us whether it is only the station or the annexed land? The area of SNCB in this place is quite large with opportunities for real estate development.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u50	I do not have the elements here but if my memory is good and for having already replied to two or three letters on this subject, I think it was envisaged to make a sale in two lots, even if the lots are put together in a global offer. I can't tell you any more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u51	Since I am the mayor of the neighbouring commune, I have contacts with the municipal authorities. The problem in this type of case, as we may have met him with the station of Boussu, is that the SNCB is asking for a price too high to give the communal authorities a ruin in which we will also have to invest. I know it took Boussu a lot of time because SNCB was asking for a price that was too high. I think that there is still room for action to alleviate the financial requirements of SNCB in relation to these small stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u52	I am in favour of selling at market value and not at theoretical value because this building has not been occupied since 2007.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u53	He hasn't been in a long time. In 2007, I became a member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u54	I've never seen a building beautify itself in the course of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u55	Mr Minister, strikes were again made at skeyes, and I heard two trade unions say today. It is still the problem of workload and the way in which premium hours are allocated to air traffic controllers. Those premium hours are unperformed hours. Air traffic controllers receive these when, for example, they are called up unexpectedly for a service. They then work a shift and are awarded additional hours on top of that according to the collective agreement concluded with the traffic controllers' trade unions. That agreement is not respected, unilaterally. Once again, the situation is very precarious. During Mr Decuyper's visit, I pointed out that social consultation at skeyes was not respected at all. That's what we saw during our visit. The staff indicated that there is no consultation. At the offices of the traffic controllers we saw texts in which they clearly indicated that the consultation at skeyes was very poor. So now there are two more strike commitments. Mr Minister, is it true that the management had previously promised that the traffic controllers could convert the premium hours indefinitely to leave days? Is it true that the management of skeyes wishes to limit the conversion of premium hours to leave days to a number of days? If so, why? Is it true that the board of skeyes is putting pressure on traffic controllers to get their premium hours paid? Will you advise the management of skeyes to comply with the agreements made with regard to premium hours and thus to meet the requirements of air traffic controllers? The agreements are contained in an agreement concluded with the trade unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that skeyes is an autonomous business of public use. As such, it is the responsibility of the delegated director to maintain a serene social environment that contributes to the proper management of the company's activities and ensures their efficient management. There are consultation mechanisms within the company and as a minister I should not interfere in the day-to-day management of the company. According to the information I received, the consultation works well. On Friday 14 February 2020, the Joint Committee of Skeyes approved a text on the regularisation of existing premium hours with the legally required two-thirds majority. The agreement is fully in line with the previous continuity protocol. ACV-Transcom stated that it did not agree and filed a strike notice. On Saturday 15 February, a strike announcement was sent by e-mail to the chairman and the delegate director in connection with the decision of the Joint Committee. In accordance with Article 35, § 2 of the syndical statute of skeyes, the delegate director immediately invited the trade unions to a conciliation meeting on Wednesday 19 February. At that conciliation meeting, all parties decided to wait for the results of the survey and meet again on Friday 3 April 2020. The conciliation procedure is therefore continuing. I note that the talks have so far continued constructively and that the negotiations have not come to an end.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u57	Minister, it is not the first time that an agreement has been reached with a few trade unions after a discussion, but not with all trade unions. That is the case again. Two trade unions, including the VSOA, do not agree with the amendment of the existing agreement on premium hours, which was nevertheless common and which is now being broken. This causes a great deal of discontent among the staff, who now cannot compensate for his days off. The workers are not satisfied with that at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u58	A month ago, an interesting topical debate took place in this committee on the least punctual line of the country, the Brussels-Mol line. At that time, Minister, you indicated that the delays were due, among other things, to the lack of a double track on entire sections of the routes between Herentals and Mol and between Mol and Hamont. In addition, there is currently no higher frequency in that region due to the lack of a double track. It is about two lines: line 15 between Mol and Hasselt and line 19 between Mol and Hamont. Among other things, the 11+2 Flemish rail priorities state that these two lines would be better partially dedoubled. The Flemish government would co-finance 100 million euros. How much would a doubling cost, both on the route Mol-Hamont and on the route Mol-Hasselt? Exactly how many kilometres of railroad are we talking about? Probably there's no need to completely dedouble the railroads.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u59	The cost of 13 kilometres between Balen-Workplaces and Neerpelt is estimated at 48.3 million euros, according to current knowledge. In the multi-annual investment plan 2013-2015 a budget was drawn up for a partial double track on line 15, more specifically for two alternate tracks near Zonhoven and van Balen. It was a partial second track not electrified. The costs were estimated at EUR 9.4 million. For an updated estimate, including electrification such as the current, mainly single track, a number of parameters need to be reviewed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u60	Mr President, Minister, I will look at the information again. The region is asking for it. It is of course important to know exactly what is being asked. That is why the information is important, especially to know how much money and how many kilometres it is about. So let me take a look at your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u61	Mr President, Minister, at present, line IC 413 connects the stations of Courtrai and Welkenraedt. According to my information, some reflections have been underway for some months already aimed at extending this line to the Eupen station. Of course, that makes me happy. A train that connects our station to the interior of the country every half hour, it can only be positive for my entire region. Indeed, by increasing the frequency of trains leaving Eupen, we will increase not only the attractiveness of our city but also the flexibility for the commuter who will opt, I hope, even more for the train. The city of Eupen is already planning to take advantage of certain facilities to make them also. We hope that this will benefit even more from the use of the train. Minister, do you already have any information to tell me about what happened to me in terms of projects? Could this enlargement come about in the near future? If so, what is the planned timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u62	Dear colleague, the IC 12 relationship Courtrai-Gand-Bruxelles-Louvain-Liège-Welkenraedt, in other words a crossing of Belgium, is the subject of numerous studies, whether in terms of the range of services, the policy of stopping (an additional stop requested from Ans or Dolhain-Gileppe, for example) or the modification of destination, in particular to Eupen or to Germany. To answer all these questions, the SNCB will be organizing roadshows next spring that will explain province by province the projects that were selected for the period from December 2020 to December 2023. Any changes to the IC 12 relationship will be communicated in this context. In addition, SNCB points out that as part of its transport plan 12/2017-12/2020, it extended the route of train P 8452 Liège-Verviers to Eupen, thus offering an additional train to Eupen at 1703. This train, which already leaves the city centre of Liège at 3:55 p.m., Liège-Guillemins at 4:07 p.m. and Verviers-Central at 4:42 p.m., seems much more suitable for school needs than an extension of the IC 413 train which leaves Liège at 3:36 p.m. and Verviers-Central at 4:01 p.m. This turns out to be a little early for most schoolchildren and of course for the workers if they want to prepare their 7:36. The SNCB will, however, be able to tell you more about the details of this offer during its roadshow in the province of Liège.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u63	Minister, thank you very much for this information. As an abhorrent of tourism and the economy, I attended the roadshow last year, during which the suspense was great because several projects had been unveiled, including this one. I can only encourage SNCB to continue its efforts in this study in order to set up a half-hour regularity line.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u64	To prepare its transportation plan, SNCB made a first roadshow to listen to local requests, province by province. The one organized this year is intended to explain to the same people what has been retained and why. The information I have given you here is the suggestion that has been retained among all the requests that have been made. This will then be passed in government for validation of the whole new offer to be implemented from December 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u65	The extension of line IC 413 is not planned at this time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u66	Rather, it was the alternative that was chosen, as the extension of IC 413 would give a schedule too early. They prefer to add the other train, which better meets school schedules.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u67	Is this only a temporary solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u68	No, this will be included in the next transport plan that will be in effect from 2020 and for four years. When you go to the roadshow, you'll get all the details.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u69	I'm burning up to go now!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u70	Mr Minister, many citizens in the north of the Verviers district complain about the increasing noise pollution associated with the air traffic they face, given the proximity to Maastricht-Aachen Airport (Maastricht Aachen Airport). The area of the Three Frontiers is particularly concerned because it is located in the immediate vicinity of two competing regional airports located 30 kilometres from each other: Liège Airport and, above all, in the northern part of the Verviers district, Maastricht Aachen Airport. The feeling among the population is that the problem has increased in the last 15 months. It is true that Maastricht Aachen Airport is experiencing a significant increase in its activity. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2018, the airport recorded the highest growth of all national airports in the Netherlands, with 45,000 passengers recorded, 75% more than in 2017. In the first quarter of 2019, the number of aircraft movements recorded in Maastricht was 2,365 compared to 2,117 at the same time in 2018. This airport does not intend to stop there. In a document sent last year to the competent Dutch minister and the provincial states of Limburg, the airport evokes its ambition to double its number of passengers transported by 2026. From 275,000 customers in 2018, the figure would reach 700,000 in six years. The recent rise of Maastricht Aachen Airport has sparked a protest in the Dutch Limburg by the immediate residents of the airport who are also impacted on this side of the border. Mr Minister, does Belgocontrol have any data that would make it possible to know the share of air traffic originating from Maastricht Aachen Airport in the north of the Verviers district? Have you had any contact with your Dutch counterpart regarding the development of this airport and its consequences, in terms of noise pollution, on the north of the Verviers district or on other areas of Belgium? If not yet, do you intend to contact him?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u71	Mr President, Mr Ben Achour, I have asked skeyes to carry out a radar trace analysis for flights to and from Maastricht Aachen Airport and Liège Airport for a week of traffic during the summers of 2017 and 2019 over the area of the Three Frontiers. This analysis allows trends to be observed, but a review over a longer period of time will be necessary to draw more relevant conclusions. As you point out, air traffic – in particular commercial flights to Maastricht Aachen Airport and Liège Airport – has increased in recent years. Maastricht Aachen Airport is open daily from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m., with a possible extension until midnight. The majority of flights thus take place during the day, while Liège Airport has its peak traffic during the night. As a result, depending on the time of day, the increase in traffic over the Three Frontiers area can be attributed mostly to one of the two airports. I would ask DGTA to pay particular attention to the comments on the recent development of Maastricht-Aachen airport. On the other hand, I did not have any particular contact with my Dutch counterpart on this matter. However, based on the results of the skeyes analysis, I may be able to ask him about the development plans of this airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u72	Minister, thank you for your answer and will not fail to return to you in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u73	Minister, in 2018, the construction of a new wharf at the Eupen station was started. For several months, however, work has not been resumed, so commuters have to face a construction site that is not moving anymore on a daily basis. However, according to my information, the layout of the station is still well on the agenda and I am therefore curious to know when the works will finally be able to resume. Minister, why have the work been stopped? Can you indicate the timetable for the station? What about the volume of investments?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u74	Dear colleague, in the long run, it is in order to increase the comfort of SNCB's clientele that it is planned to finalize the development of the wharfs and lane corridors. To this end, a permit is needed, for which constructive discussions are currently being held with the municipality. If, as expected, the permit is issued quickly, then the work could be scheduled as soon as possible, i.e. probably in the course of 2021. The budget needed to carry out these adjustments is already provided for. I'll keep an eye on it. In the investment plan, this item is already retained.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u75	I can assure you that the discussions with the commune were very constructive, since this was obviously very welcome. Any investment made in our station is obviously a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u76	Minister, it is not compulsory for drivers of priority vehicles today to undergo specific theoretical and practical training. Yet it is a very diverse group of directors. There are also partial accident figures, and this is a respectable number of accidents. These include emergency and energy workers, railway workers and road inspectors. Often the employer organises specific training himself. For example, the police have their own training for driving a vehicle in interventions. Some private players also offer these training courses, but certainly not every driver of a priority vehicle has been given a training priority driving. The reason for my question is a discussion in the Flemish Parliament. The Flemish Minister of Mobility suggested in response to a parliamentary question that a specific driving licence could be an interesting option for drivers of priority vehicles, of course, in combination with an adapted training course to be followed by each driver of such a vehicle. She suggested that she take that thought trail with her in a subsequent consultation with the federal level, which is why I'm presenting it to you, Minister. The idea of a separate driving licence for drivers of priority vehicles also comes from the sector itself. I received a letter from the Ambulanciers Union, a professional association of all ambulances in Belgium, which also advocates specific training for drivers of priority vehicles. Do you have a view of the percentage of drivers of a priority vehicle who have been trained to do so? What is your view on compulsory theoretical and practical training for all drivers of priority vehicles? Of course, training is a regional competence, but it can be linked to a specific licence. What is your view on a specific driving licence for drivers of priority vehicles? Given the way in which they are to enter traffic, testing additional skills for a specific driving licence seems appropriate. The training courses could be organised by the Regions. Have you had any contact with your regional colleagues on this matter? In what way do we arrange this abroad? Are there any good practices from neighbouring countries that we can take over?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u77	I do not see the percentage of drivers who drive a priority vehicle and have been trained to do so. The correct driving of a priority vehicle appears to be largely linked to the nature of that vehicle. For example, driving a police vehicle may require specific knowledge and skills other than driving an ambulance. It is therefore appropriate that the training of directors should be organised by the service or government to which they belong. I do not have any indication that this is not being done at the moment in a satisfactory manner and with sufficient regularity. Nor do I know of a general problem of road safety with priority vehicles which would indicate that the current training for the various services concerned is not sufficient. The rules laid down in the European directive, to which you refer, do not apply to driving as a priority. The introduction of a priority driving licence code requires a general regulatory framework for all drivers of priority vehicles. In our neighbouring countries, no national priority driving code is already placed on the driving licence. I had no contact with the Flemish Minister of Mobility on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, although it does not offer a real solution. Is this a big problem? In the debate in the Flemish Parliament, figures were mentioned which could be seen as a signal that we should have the necessary attention. I think driving a priority vehicle in traffic requires special skills, which require extra attention. Another indication that this is being looked at is the fact that the Ambulanciers' Union itself suggests providing specific training. This shows that the subject deserves due attention. In this sense, my proposal seems to be useful, and it will be examined in more detail in the coming period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u79	Mr Minister, SNCB has unilaterally decided to outsource the surveillance of the TGV site at Vorst to Seris, a private security company, and to transfer the agents of Securail to the train stations. The site has so far been secured by agents of Securail. They are trained for this purpose, know the safety hazards, have been working on and around the tracks for years without problems, are responsible for general safety and are authorized to stop or leave trains later, if the situation so requires. The Securail agents are statutory employees with some powers that private guards do not have. Securail agents are specialised security agents of SNCB. They are judicial police officers, who can, for example, arrest intruders on the premises of Vorst. This allows them to take decisions and take action in the interests of security, sometimes resulting in economic damage. On 12 February, at the request of the ACOD Spoor, a conciliation meeting was scheduled, but this was not possible, as the private security agents are already active on the ground. There can therefore no longer be a serene debate. A strike commitment in the near future can therefore not be ruled out. Mr. Secretary, one of Seris' private security guards would have already caused a security incident in the local sign cabin. Do you know what just happened there? Was the general safety compromised? How did SNCB react to this? The agreement was that the private agents would not take up their duties until March, when they were already on the premises in February. According to ACOD, Seris agents have not received the necessary training to carry out their tasks in a professional manner. Is that right? What training did they receive? On what time? May the Seris agents apprehend an intruder and hold him, as the Securail agents may? If not, is this not a concrete threat to general security on the TGV site at Vorst? What are the duties of the Seris agents to replace the Securail agents in Prince? Is it true that SNCB and Infrabel have signed a convention or framework agreement allowing private companies to carry out the tasks in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u80	Mrs Vindevoghel, the information that a security guard would have caused an incident on 17 February is incorrect and was immediately denied by Infrabel and SNCB. There was no procedural error, nor was there a lack of communication. At the end of the theoretical training by SNCB, in collaboration with Infrabel, the agents of the monitoring firm were introduced under the supervision of the trainer in their future workshop from 17 to 29 February, so that the full take-over of the activities could take place on 1 March. The training programme of the seven Seris agents focused on the following themes: knowledge of the site of the TGV workshop in Vorst, general risks associated with the rail system and a special operational instruction explaining their contractual tasks. The Act of 2 October 2017 regulating private and special security will now also allow security officers to hold someone caught in the act. An agent with the additional Securail powers is therefore not necessary. The task of the security agents in the porter's lodge at the entrance to the site of the TGV workshop at Vorst is pure surveillance. Legally, it concerns in particular the activity control of persons, which means in concrete terms the control of access to the site for each outsider. Surveillance rounds on the site are not part of their task package.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u81	Minister, if I have understood correctly, it is only about bringing out trains and the like. That is still being done by the people of Securail. Did I get it right? The release of trains is, after all, something that requires very specific training with many safety aspects. Is that still being done by Securail?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u82	There are also people from Securail for some tasks. Other tasks are for the private security officers. If there's a problem with that, they can call Securail to send people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u83	You have not answered my last question, namely whether there is an agreement within the NMNS and Infrabel on the division between private security and Securail. Is there a convention about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u84	I can't give you an answer to that right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u85	Minister, I would like to say that Securail's staff are very concerned. After all, these statutory appointed people are much better trained to make decisions on safety than those of a private company. This is also seen at the airport. There is a great deal of progress in the staff of such a private company and new people need to be trained to ensure safety. We therefore fear that security will not be guaranteed by privatising this service.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u86	Minister, in September 2019 a social agreement was reached between the management of skeyes and the air traffic controllers. The agreement was reached on the planning mechanism governing the scheduling of air traffic controllers. Two of the three trade unions signed the agreement which gave it a majority. In addition to the agreement on the planning mechanism, agreement was also reached on the implementation of European regulation on the issue of fatigue management. Fatigue management ensures that minimum rest periods are respected and will reduce fatigue among air traffic controllers. These European regulations would be implemented by the management of skeyes from 1 January 2020. In recent talks with air traffic control it emerged that this implementation of the fatigue management is not being complied with. Working time would not be respected and minimum and maximum working hours would not be respected. In short, the European standard is not being complied with. Bus drivers, truck drivers and pilots all have a maximum number of driving hours or flight hours and must be required to take sufficient rest. It is logical and necessary for the safety of air traffic control to have that rest. As a management I would not want it on my conscience that by not giving sufficient rest to my staff there would be accidents with catastrophic consequences. Safety must be absolutely paramount. Minister, is European regulations 373/2017 respected by the management of skeyes? How many infringements of the European regulations on capital management since implementation can be detected? Is there a positive or negative assessment in the last five years of respect for the labour regulations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u87	Mr President, Mr Vandenput, first of all I would like to clarify that no union voted against the agreement and, secondly, that they voted for it. The introduction of a new planning mechanism for air traffic controllers in skeyes aims inter alia to ensure compliance with the European Regulation 373/2070 on fatigue management. Much stricter rules will be applied than those previously applicable to planning. A maximum of six shifts will be planned one after the other and there will be 48 hours of rest after a twin night. The new planning mechanism entered into force on 1 February 2020 as a result of the agreements in September 2019. The European rules on fatigue management should be strictly applied and monitored by the BSA supervisory authority. The first results show that the system is working well. However, the system has only just started and the intention is to make a first evaluation after the months of February and March 2020. With regard to compliance with the labour regulations, the new system would allow management to intervene much more quickly, which would improve the application of the labour regulations in the future. A final remark is that the new system leaves room for flexibility so that the controller can indicate which shifts he wants to perform. If his requests are in accordance with the rules governing the management of fatigue, his requests are likely to be accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am pleased that you confirm that this has started from 1 February and that it will be updated after an evaluation. That is a good thing. I believe that air traffic controllers, like bus drivers, truck drivers and pilots, should keep their rest periods so that safety is guaranteed at all times. I welcome your answer. I hope management will ensure that this continues to be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u89	Mr President, in another committee I have already asked a question about the centralisation of the railway police. It's been a while. Unfortunately not for the first time there were quite recent cases of heavy aggression on the train, both in Leuven and in Beringen. It happens that there are two regions where, according to the trade unions, there is an under-staffing of the security services, both of the railway police and of Securail. According to them, this could be expected to happen in those regions. They also signal the additional problem that the Securail agents can only defend themselves with pepper spray and handcuffs. In Leuven it has been found that this is not enough in the case of heavy aggression. The questions of the union are clear, and I'd like to have your views on them. Firstly, the trade unions are asking for more Securail personnel. Are you, as a minister, prepared to support this question? Secondly, do you follow the view that the defences of the Securail staff should be extended to cases of severe aggression? Thirdly, the centralisation of the railway police certainly ensures in my region, Limburg, that we now have unguarded stations. Minister Jambon mentioned this at the time as a matter for the local police, but of course it doesn't get any more resources either. How do we solve that? Finally, there is a feeling of impunity in the case of train escorts and Securail staff members when it comes to discussions on transport tickets, with which it usually begins. How do you intend to deal with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u90	Mr Verduyckt, the framework of the various Securail districts and brigades is determined in the first place taking into account the types of stations, which in turn are classified according to the number of passengers passing by each day. SNCB also takes account of the geographical distribution, so that the Belgian railway domain can be fully covered within an optimal intervention time. The staff of Securail is also employed in accordance with the safety requirements. Assigning agents to a work station is purely administrative. Agents from other workplaces can be used perfectly to strengthen certain regions at specific times and on the basis of specific needs. The demand for additional budget for recruitment at Securail is currently not discussed. SNCB also wishes to point out the responsibility of police forces and their role and responsibility in terms of railway safety. The agreements with the federal and local police forces included in Minister Duquesne's 2002 letter are currently under discussion, but must be respected until further notice. Internal and external analyses have shown that the present defences are sufficient to respond proportionally to incidents for which Securail is competent. The Securail agents are trained to intervene in case of severe aggression and to protect colleagues and/or travellers. In addition, the intervention of the police is always necessary in the event of severe aggression. Therefore, in consultation with the Minister for the Interior, it was decided not to grant additional defences to the Securail agents. The reorganisation of the police department is a responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. SNCB calls for clarity on the reform of the organisation of police services. The partial implementation currently leads to an unclear division of roles between police forces and poses a risk to both SNCB staff and its customers and mobility in general. We call for the reform to include the security service, which can be complementary and supportive. In addition to private and special security activities, Securail agents also have limited police powers under the railway police law. The Railway Police Act provides for the possibility of administrative fines for infringements such as travel without a valid ticket. The rapid imposition of such sanctions should significantly reduce impunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u91	Mr President, Minister, there is, of course, a fundamental dishonesty in this situation. The Limburgers have less public transport anyway. The government says that this will reduce the need for railway police there. As a result, safety is being compromised. We pay as much taxes as any other resident in this country, and so we are entitled to that security, even if there are fewer lines. You're referring to the police for a piece. That does not seem to be the answer. I'm going to question your colleague on that, too. I think we really have a problem there. If the train escorts themselves indicate that they no longer feel strengthened and feel unsafe on the train, we still have a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u92	Mr Vandenbroucke, with your agreement, we shall first deal with the two joint questions on item 46.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u93	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke, thank you for your willingness. Minister, the European regulation on passenger rights has been in force since 2005. It must protect passengers in the event of denied boarding or delayed or cancelled flight. In this way, when faced with the above problems, passengers are entitled to assistance and, where appropriate, compensation. That regulation is 15 years old and an update is being considered. That is certainly a good thing. There are several positive things in it, such as the fact that airlines need to provide more and better information about the price and be more transparent about the amount of baggage allowed. However, the proposal before us contains a number of concerns. At present, a compensation of 250 euros can be obtained for a relatively short flight of up to 1,500 km after 3 hours of delay. For a longer flight of more than 3,500 km, a delay of 4 hours will give you 600 euros. In the proposal now on the table, it would be 3 hours 5 hours and 4 hours 12 hours, which would mean a lot more delay before a financial compensation could be expected. Mr Minister, I have the following specific questions. Have you taken note of the plans as they are now on the table? Has this been discussed at a Council of Ministers? If so, what position did Belgium take here? Do you agree that it would be a bad signal to allow airlines to be less punctual? Finally, do you agree that the rights of air passengers should not be reduced?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u94	Mr President, Minister, Croatia is currently chairing the Council of the European Union. It is this country that takes the initiative to undermine the rights of European air passengers by launching a proposal to amend Regulation (EC) 261/2004. It seems obvious that the Croatian government is making a lobby in favour of the air sector. The same government, led by the HDZ party, Croatian Christian Democrats, has recently injected 40 million euros into the Croatian airline now in deficit. As long as Regulation (EC) 261/2004 is in force, European airlines will have to pay compensation to passengers if their flight is more than three hours late. This allowance varies between 250 and 600 euros, depending on the distance of the flight. However, the rights that air passengers may enjoy in the event of delays in their flight are now being challenged. The European Commission is proposing to extend the minimum delay period to qualify for financial compensation based on the duration of the flight. This measure is expected to come into effect at the end of this year. If such a measure were to be approved, technical deficiencies could be considered as cases of force majeure, which would mean a return to square one. Passengers should then return home without compensation. According to a study by the European Commission, only 37.5% of European air passengers claim compensation when their flight is long overdue while they are entitled to it. In the proposal that is currently on the EU negotiating table, delays must be longer if compensation is to be considered. For a short flight, the aircraft will have to be five hours late rather than three in order for the passenger to be entitled to a compensation of 250 euros. An international flight of more than 3,500 kilometres should be delayed by more than 12 hours for an allowance of EUR 600, which is three times longer than the four hours currently provided for in the European Directive. Minister, what is the Belgian Government's position on this new proposal to reduce compensation for air passengers? As a minister, are you going to ask the Croatian government to immediately stop its lobby in favour of the air sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is again on the table a revision of Regulation 261/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2004 laying down common rules on compensation and assistance for passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or significant delay of a flight, and repealing Regulation 295/91. That proposal follows on from an earlier attempt to revise the regulation that dates back to 2013, but was finally pushed aside after no agreement could be reached in the Council of the European Union. The revision was relaunched in 2019 by the Finnish Presidency and after the European Commission had received an in-depth study on the current state of passenger rights in the European Union. On 12 February the Croatian Presidency submitted a compromise proposal to the Council's Working Party on Aviation. These compromise proposals proposed to the Council Working Group on Aviation are currently being examined in the vast majority of Member States, including Belgium. The aim of the Croatian Presidency is to reach a general approach at the June Transport Council. In so far as the dossier relates mainly to transport competences, it is the Minister for Mobility who closely follows this dossier and takes the necessary steps in collaboration with the competent administration and, if necessary, in consultation with other administrations with competence in this field, with a view to drawing up a Belgian position. I would remind you that this is a draft European regulation, so that Belgium is not the only master of the game. I have already asked the competent services of my administration to strongly defend the Belgian position.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u96	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Indeed, at the European level, Belgium is not only a player. I myself have experienced the negotiations between the Council, Parliament and the Commission, the famous trilogues. However, I have not been able to understand from your answer what the Belgian position will be defended at the table. My question was very specific. It is easy to answer yes or no. Will Belgium not defend that airlines should be less punctual before air passengers are entitled to financial compensation? I have not been able to tell that from your answer at all. So I want to ask that question again. Will Belgium not agree to this and call for amendments to it in the Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u97	Minister, thank you. I understood that this was a matter for Europe, but – as Mrs Van Bossuyt said – it was a matter of knowing Belgium's position in this very specific case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u98	Would you like to react again, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u99	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u100	We take note of the Minister's replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u101	Minister, the Third Party Coordination Service of SNCB Technics is responsible for the sale of rolling stock and other items. In the past, the presence of asbestos has been identified on several occasions in SNCB trains. I realise that the subject has been discussed in committee before, but I would like to have an update on the matter. Firstly, when did SNCB start selling rolling stock? For what reasons does SNCB sell certain trains? How many trains have already been sold? Who were they sold to? What amount did the sale yield? To date, has SNCB sold trains in which the presence of asbestos was established? If yes, how many trains were sold? To whom and for what amount were they sold? How many trains in which asbestos was identified are in the possession of SNCB? If trains are sold in which asbestos is present, then contractual agreements are made on disposal, in particular on who pays for it, within what period of time that must be done and what staff will be responsible for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u102	Mr Vandenbroucke, SNCB sells certain trains because they are out of service, at the end of their life or after an accident. The dual motor sets have been sold since 2015. SNCB has a contract with Ecore in Aubange. About a hundred motor sets were sold. The price fluctuates according to the actual cost of the scrap. A complete overview cannot therefore be given. In view of the fact that it is not possible to show the full history of sales, we can only say that all the vehicles mentioned in the answer contain asbestos. For SNCB, asbestos was found in 100 dual motor sets, 550 vehicles M4, 130 carriages 5M, 40 carriages I6, 95 locomotives HLE21 and HLE27, 20 locomotives HLD55M, 78 locomotives HLD62, 139 sets Break and the non-motorised M75. When trains are sold with asbestos, there is a three-party contract between SNCB, the buyer and an asbestos removal company. The specialist and approved asbestos removal firm ensures the disposal and the buyer pays for the disposal; the asbestos must be removed within six months of the signing of the contract. The approved asbestos removal firms work according to the rules of art and their staff are perfectly protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u103	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will certainly read it again in the report. You mentioned a lot of numbers. That's what I asked for. Apparently, there are still impressive numbers of train sets and motor sets in which asbestos is present. Anyway, I will look into the matter further and, if necessary, ask a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u104	Mr President, Minister, in the new National Road Safety Survey 2020, which took Vias away from 6,000 road users, the results for self-reported risk behaviour and the support for additional traffic measures are particularly striking. One of the notable figures is that of all respondents 36 % indicates that every month outside the built-up area drives faster than the speed limit, on motorways that figure is 32 % and within the built-up area at 28 % or almost one in three. The bad news is that those numbers have increased since the previous road safety survey. It is also striking that 83% of respondents are in favour of more checks on the use of the mobile behind the wheel. 73 % is in favour of more checks on alcohol consumption and 63% of road users are in favour of zero tolerance for alcohol behind the wheel. The road safety survey shows that motorists themselves report that they are more likely to engage in certain traffic-insecure behaviours. Actually, that's recidivism. It is therefore important to take a firmer line on this matter again and again. One way of doing this is the introduction of the driving licence with points, which has been registered in Belgian legislation for 30 years, but this legislature has not yet been able to introduce it. In 22 countries in the European Union, the licence with points has already been introduced in one form or another and it appears to be an effective means of dealing with repeated cases. Mr President, in view of the results of the latest road safety survey, what arguments do you still oppose the introduction of the driving licence with points? Another measure to speed up repeated action is the Mercury database. This database will allow police officers to check in real time whether or not a driving ban applies to a driver during roadside checks. This can increase the chances of getting caught. Mr Minister, can you give us a final update on the operation of the Mercury database? What other measures or conclusions do you attach to the results of the National Road Safety Survey 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u105	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke, it is true that the results of this road safety survey clearly indicate that many Belgians are hard learners in committing traffic offences and are not consistent. It is admitted that people themselves are making mistakes, and they also want more enforcement. Unfortunately, this is not the first time that such results have been obtained. The social standard with regard to traffic offences is therefore very weak in Belgium. This has already been demonstrated by previous European and international comparisons. However, the fight against recidivism remains one of my priorities in terms of road safety. In this context, the introduction of a driving licence with points in Belgium was examined in detail. This showed that the effect of the point system is flattened after some time and that it is only effective at a sufficiently high level of enforcement. The cost picture of developments for such a system cannot be underestimated. In the Netherlands, too, these arguments have prevented its implementation. Nevertheless, we continue to focus on combating repeated offences and draw lessons from the experience of other countries which have introduced the driving licence with points. Hard learners can also be dealt with without a point count. For example, I have already argued for a tougher approach to recidivists who are getting rid of it today with the payment of a fine. My administration is in close contact with the FPS Justice Department, which has been working hard for years to optimize the MACH database, which centralises all penalty violations. In consultation with the Minister of Justice, it is my intention, on the basis of this database, to remove hard learners from anonymity and to impose heavier or alternative sanctions to counter this behaviour. I am thinking here of gradually building up sanctions, either financially educationally or by imposing a driving ban, whereby driving licences can also be suspended in the event of frequent repetition of traffic facts. The gradual optimisation of the MACH database, which I very much welcome, will eventually allow the personalisation of the behaviour of road offenders. In order to allow this, it is essential that the offences remain centralised in a single database so that the entire history of traffic facts is preserved, if not the approach to repeated offences is impossible. The crossroads bank of driving licences has been operational since 2017. The FPS Mobility and Transport has developed a web service to consult the data regarding the expiry of the right to drive and the immediate withdrawal of the driving licence. The municipalities can therefore now consult the data on driving bans. One problem is that the police cannot yet consult the database of the FPS Justice in the field. There is still a need for adjustments in the field of computer science. A state of play regarding the operationalisation of this matter should be asked of my colleague in the Interior. I would add that today, in Belgium, in proportion, six times more permits are withdrawn than in France. Only one serious offence in Belgium allows a licence to be withdrawn in Belgium, whereas this is not the case in France, unless you kill someone. But in Belgium, you can have a license withdrawal for the first serious offence. For example, if your alcohol level exceeds 1.8 g/l, you have the choice between a six-month to one-year licence withdrawal and a fine of 6 to 16,000 euros with the obligation to iron all permits or anti-start ethylotest. This is not the case in France with the point permit. The system chosen in Belgium is more focused on combating phenomena. I think I have already insisted that we will soon have to organize the General States of Road Safety, as we did in 2015. Thirteen of the fifteen recommendations had been implemented. But there are new phenomena and new technologies. We have to go to the identification of drivers at the gsm because almost one in two accidents is related to the inattention due to the use of gsm. When heavy goods vehicles enter workers' protective vehicles, each time the police were able to identify via telephone operators that the drivers were on the telephone. In one case, the driver was watching TV! Cameras, equipment and controls are required. The current legal arsenal seems to me to be sufficiently repressive, but new technologies must be used to identify the absence of seat belts, the telephone behind the wheel and the drug – which is more present than alcohol today. New salivary tests, which have been in place for three to four months, show that drugs are just as present as alcohol. I hope that the next Minister of Mobility will activate the General States in order to take stock with all the players on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u106	Mr Vandenbroucke, you have received a comprehensive reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u107	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. If you say that enforcement needs to be even more focused in order to make better use of the existing legal arsenal and that new techniques need to be used to catch people using the mobile behind the wheel, then I fully support you in that. Cell phone use behind the wheel is one of the phenomena that makes an incredibly rapid rise. You said that the social acceptance of traffic offences in our country is particularly high compared to other European countries. That is why I asked you this question. However, I do not agree with what you have said about the driving licence with points. On the one hand, you refer to the Netherlands. You say that in the Netherlands, for the same reasons that we have examined, the licence with points has not been introduced. On the other hand, you refer to France, where indeed fewer driving licences are withdrawn than in Belgium. I would also like to mention the statistics on general road safety. Both the Netherlands and France score better in terms of road safety than Belgium. In the past, 15 to 20 years ago, France was behind us. Now they stand before us through a combination of much more enforcement and the driving licence with points. I wouldn't put that instrument all the way out of the way if I were you. I look forward to the new States-General of Road Safety that you will convene. I hope that we will be able to discuss new measures there openly. I am certainly pleased that you acknowledge that we have a problem and that we have much more to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u108	Minister, SNCB ordered 445 M7 cars from the manufacturer Bombardier for a total cost of €1.3 billion. These were to be delivered between 2018 and 2021. An option had been signed for an additional 917 trainsets, which would bring us to a total of 1,362 cars, for a total amount of €3.3 billion. The first delivery, scheduled for 2018, was not completed in time. Following the failure of the merger with the German conglomerate Siemens, the French train manufacturer Alstom wants to take control of the railway activities of its competitor Bombardier. Bombardier has an establishment in Bruges with 450 workers and Alstom currently employs 1,050 people in two centres of excellence in Charleroi. These installations are specialized in the ETCS signalling system and in traction systems for rolling stock. This merger could therefore have important consequences for the Belgian labour market. The M7 cars ordered by Belgium are manufactured jointly by Bombardier and Alstom on Belgian soil. Minister, given the speed with which conditions change at Bombardier, will Alstom's takeover of Bombardier further slow down the delivery of the new M7 cars? Has Bombardier ever kept SNCB informed of this takeover and its implications? Will the M7 cars, which have already been ordered, be produced in Belgium after Alstom took over Bombardier?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u109	My colleague, on this possible acquisition, the European Commission has yet to give its approval. This procedure may take until mid-2021. Bombardier Transport's acquisition by Alstom Transport is not currently a factor likely to play a role in slowing down the delivery of new M7 cars. There are three types of car: cars, traction cars and mixed cars. They are already largely manufactured by Bombardier, but traction cars are made by Alstom and intermediaries are made by Alstom Bombardier. It won't change much. Bombardier Transport did in fact officially inform SNCB of this takeover after Alstom's offer to buy back railway activities was relayed by the press. With regard to the implications of this resumption, it is still too early to pronounce itself, but this will apparently have no influence on the order.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u110	Mr President, questions about the corona virus were of course inevitable. When I submitted my question, it was inspired by what is happening in the Netherlands, among other things. I bet that by Tuesday at the latest, the first corona contamination would take place in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u111	You are always very inspired, Mr Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm afraid I got it right. Last Saturday it was priced. The number of infections is likely to increase. I have a number of questions about the way in which SNCB is preparing for this. In the Netherlands, the Dutch Railways had announced that they had prepared with other transport companies in the Netherlands to prevent the outbreak of the corona virus there. They did not yet want to speculate whether certain trains would no longer be running as soon as contaminations were detected, but they were considering, among other things, how to give advice to travellers. ProRail, the infrastructure manager of the Dutch rail network, issued a press release yesterday announcing the launch of a "coronataskforce" to determine what should happen in the event of a major outbreak of the virus. For example, it explores ways of ensuring that as many train drivers as possible can be kept at work. In addition to the protection of passengers, we must also ensure that sufficient staff of SNCB remain operational in the event of a large-scale outbreak of the virus so that trains can run. Inspired by the Dutch example, I had a number of obvious questions for you, Minister. Is SNCB preparing or drawing up an action plan in the event of a major outbreak of the corona virus in our country? If so, what specific measures will be envisaged? Is there already an impact on international train connections, such as those with the Netherlands, where infected persons have already been identified? Is there any consultation with the railway companies in our neighbouring countries? I noticed that Brussels Airlines has already suspended many flights to a number of EU countries. It may therefore be perfectly possible that a number of international train connections will also have to be suspended. Is there a view of that yet? Are there consultations with other public transport companies such as STIB, De Lijn and TEC?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u113	Mr Minister, I ask both my questions immediately after each other. The first question concerns SNCB. Is there a federal railway action plan? Has a plan been made for that yet? Does SNCB have a concrete action plan? What's that look like? What are the consequences for travellers and what are the consequences for workers? How will SNCB staff be protected from the contamination? Are there sufficient protection measures? What is the communication to the personnel related to protection? Minister, the second question is about skeyes. They're heading in the same direction. Were specific measures taken to protect the staff of skeyes from the infectious coronavirus? If so, which one? Who were they drafted by? It's not all air traffic controllers at skeyes. If an employee were to test positive, should he be quarantined together with his colleagues? Is air traffic still possible? How many skeye air traffic controllers can stay sick at home without compromising the service? What measures were taken by Brussels Airlines? Minister, I have another question. What is the role of DGVL in prevention? We received a lot of comments from employees about coordination on the ground for the whole airport area. Is that a competence of DGVL or rather of Brussels Airport?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u114	Minister, the questions are all pretty much the same, so I will drop the introduction and just stick to the questions. What precautions has SNCB taken with regard to its staff and rail passengers? Does SNCB have a plan of action and, if so, what does that plan mean if effective infections with the COVID-19 virus are detected in our country as well, which is the case in the meantime? Is there specific and public transport-oriented communication between SNCB and other partners? What policy will SNCB pursue with regard to any staff affected who must remain in quarantine and will therefore not be able to come to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u115	Mr Toventers, since the outbreak of the new corona virus in China, SNCB has been in close contact with the Federal Public Service Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment and has strictly followed the advice given. These opinions are passed on to staff through the different communication channels. Based on the current information, there is no reason to panic, but vigilance is needed, as is the case with the outbreak of a flu virus. I would also like to point out that SNCB is only one link in public transport in our country. Any measures that could have an impact on public transport will therefore need to be coordinated between all public transport providers. To this end, a transport consultation group will be held today at 5 p.m. with all public transport providers and the federal administrations Public Health and Mobility and the regional authorities, in preparation for the interministerial consultation. The purpose of this transport consultation is to draw up a general state of play on prevention measures and to consider any additional mobility measures that may be required. SNCB and skeyes will also participate, among other things. To help prevent the spread of the new coronavirus COVID-19 and to protect all employees of skeyes as effectively as possible, a number of measures will take effect on all business sites. In general, skeyes applies the instructions and recommendations of the FPS Public Health. In any case, we remain vigilant in the face of this epidemic. In addition to the initial information measures put in place, SNCB and skeyes will strictly apply the instructions given to them by the competent authorities under the coordination of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u116	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I fully agree with you that panic is never good, but that we must be vigilant. It is good that consultations are planned with the various public transport companies, skeyes and the FPS Public Health. I am very curious to see what the conclusions of that consultation will be. I believe that, as in the Netherlands, we cannot be too careful and that setting up a task force to consider whether a future action plan should be rolled out can be useful. We will undoubtedly continue to be informed about the results of the consultations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u117	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it is a good thing that there is a discussion about the different transport companies. I had seen a press release from the trade unions at the airport, which said that coordination between airport companies was very poor. Is that the DGLV or Brussels Airport that should take up this role? After all, the trade unions have the pertinent demand to sit together, over the companies. After all, there are all kinds of companies at the airport. There is a lot of fear among people because there is no good communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u118	Mrs Vindevoghel, are invited to today's meeting at 5 p.m.: the Public Health FPS and all Belgian mobility services – both public and private. Everyone is there to share information in terms of public health and the measures to be taken by the control services (tickets or identity), as well as to coordinate all this with all Belgian airports. It is the same with regional public transport (metros, buses and trams) and with SNCB. It was the Kern who decided to organise CIMITs (interministerial committees) for transport, public health, etc. I think the Communities have seen each other for teaching, in order to know how to react. This is the principle of the pyramid: the manager is here the Public Health FPS, then action must be taken. You may have read in the press that an escort had coronavirus. In fact, he was an agent of Securail, who has been retired since Monday. Apparently, it was contaminated about ten days ago. Every time a case is detected, the Public Health Inspector orders an investigation to discover its origin. Is it an internal source to the family, friendly and associative or even professional? This seems important to me in order to know the vectors and then take the measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u119	Mr President, I would like to ask you about the flow of information to companies and trade union organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u120	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. There's not much to add. I too believe that this is something that is almost impossible to control. If one takes a train with a lot of people, then there must be only one in between who has contracted an infection, causing the infection to spread. I think this is very difficult to control. That is why I would like to insist on very good communication with the staff. That communication is currently being conducted. I know a number of train escorts and I got messages from them this afternoon. I even got the e-mails. There is really good communication about what they can do, but that does not prevent them from having some questions. I can tell from their reactions. I hope that attention will be paid to the fact that staff need good information and that they will be given a practical answer to the questions they face. Let me give you a brief example to close up. The train guides are advised to wash their hands regularly. After all, they touch a lot of cards and tickets. A handler told me that the facilities to wash hands on many trains are defective. Then, of course, they have a practical problem. Those are small things that raise questions. I hope that a great deal of attention will be paid to this and that it will be well communicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we will be able to exhaust the agenda. Questions Nos 55003672C, 55003674C and 55003680C by Mr Tomas Roggeman are postponed. Question No 55003779C, by Mr Emir Kir, is transformed into a written question. Questions No 55003780C, No 55003781C, No 55003782C, No 55003783C, No 5003784C, No 55003785C, No 55003786C, No 55003788C and No 55003789C of Mr Emir Kir are postponed. If there were any before these, they are postponed. Questions Nos 55003787C and 55003790C by Mr Wouter Raskin are postponed. We have already scheduled the next sitting. The meeting will be held on Wednesday, March 25 at 2:15 p.m. for questions to Minister Bellot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u122	Mr President, Minister, the Vias National Road Safety Survey, to which Mr Vandenbroucke just referred, shows that 9 out of 10 Belgians are in favour of free parking at train stations for rail passengers. The free parking of the car at the various stations can be an incentive to encourage people to take the train. However, SNCB conducts a policy in which free parking is increasingly made paying. For daily commuters or train users this means a considerable cost. Will the result of the Vias survey on the demand for free parking at train stations give rise to consultation and/or review of the current policy in this area by SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u123	Mr President, Mr Toventors, the parking strategy of SNCB has been set out several times here in Parliament. The parking strategy of SNCB, which has been in force for almost ten years, has proved its effectiveness. It aims to improve customer service by guaranteeing a parking space. SNCB bases itself on one of the following elements to make a parking fee. First, the parking is located in a building - underground parking or parking tower and access control is required to manage and secure the parking lot. Second, the parking lot is saturated by non-travelers, neighbors, companies, corporate customers, carpooling Thirdly, the municipality or city decides to make parking in the nearby streets or parking garages paying. Fourthly, the parking lot is saturated by customers and there are no guaranteed places left for subscribers. The installation of an access control facilitates the modal shift to the soft modes and carpools, in order to avoid effects of cannibalization and transfer when parking a nearby station is paid. SNCB does not apply a fixed rate for station parkings, but determines the rate, inter alia, on the basis of the comfort offered, the distance customers have to travel to the platform and whether the parking is in the open air or not. SNCB therefore applies differentiated rates at which its rail passengers at least benefit from a preferential rate. In addition to parking season tickets, separate parking tickets and multiple tickets are offered. SNCB's strategy in the event of overcrowding is the following. The parking is paid and the modal shift is encouraged by encouraging customers to come to the station on foot or by bike instead of offering free parking spaces. After all, her experience shows that 15% of train passengers switch to the bicycle when making a car park payment. Any profits will be re-invested in the operational costs of bicycle parking. Furthermore, we ensure that rail passengers benefit from a preferential rate. The parking season ticket is also often refundable by the employer or tax deductible. Before making a parking fee, contact is always made with the local authorities to jointly draw up a mobility plan. The implementation of a blue zone in the adjacent neighbourhoods of the station is an example of a solution that avoids the transfer of commuters to free nearby parking spaces. Only if it appears that the number of places remains insufficient will SNCB possibly extend the parking. There is therefore a better view of the number of necessary parking spaces. To conclude, SNCB nowhere sees a decrease in the number of rail passengers after making a parking fee. The real leverage to attract new customers is the supply of trains. The parking is a service that the customer expects, but being paying or not paying the parking does not have a decisive impact on the decision to take the train. The customer is willing to pay for the station parking, even more than is the case today, if the product and service offer meets his expectations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u124	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u125	Minister, the high-speed line between Belgium and the Netherlands was completed in 2006. At the time, the building permit required Infrabel to provide a side bridge to ensure that animals can safely cross. Before that, Infrabel concluded a collaboration with the Roads and Traffic Agency, but 14 years later it was still not done. Infrabel is also failing in terms of the forest compensation of 12 hectares for that project. What steps has Infrabel already taken to realise the promised bridge over the high-speed line? What is the state of play in the planned works, the division of tasks between Infrabel and the partners involved, the export deadlines and the estimated costs and budgets? When will Infrabel fulfil its obligations regarding forest compensation for the project? Why hasn't that happened so far? What measures do Infrabel have in mind if it does not implement those compensatory measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, Infrabel made a proposal at the time for the side bridge. However, no agreement was reached with the different stakeholders on the exact scope. Furthermore, the bridge of the Peerdsbosbaan is not designed for the static load of the required ground massif for a side bridge. Reinforcement of the pillars or the construction of a new bridge will have to be provided. Infrabel will re-plan a consultation with the stakeholders concerned in the coming months and make a proposal to meet the building permit requirement. A proposal has already been made on forest compensation. This proposal will also be submitted again to the Nature and Forest Agency. Infrabel wishes to underline that it does not wish to evade these obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u127	Thank you for your answers, Minister. I am pleased to hear that Infrabel wants to be an ally of the environment and that it will organise a re-consultation on both the completion of the bridge and the forest compensation. I will follow the matter with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u128	Minister, 46 per cent of all train passengers are asleep or daydreaming on the train. We know this from the research that SNCB announced in response to its new promotional campaign. Perhaps even more important: 28% of passengers work on the train. These are very interesting figures, but my question is actually about what SNCB learns from them. A similar investigation was carried out in the Netherlands. The follow-up to the NS consisted of developing a train interior of the future, considering how the train can meet the needs of different types of train passengers. At the Innovation Expo in 2018, they unpacked with this. In their study they saw that the focus was on capacity for years and not comfort. In the new train designs they want to take more account of the experience of the passengers. That final design offers more space, but also more satisfaction with the various needs of the traveller. This train has several zones, which are classified according to the activities of the train passengers, for example a social zone, a relaxation zone and a concentration zone. The pictures of this train make you dream. I can tell you that. This design should inspire future orders of new rolling stock. Minister, what does SNCB learn about the needs of travellers through this survey? How does SNCB intend to work with this understanding of the needs of travellers? As in the Netherlands, are they also working on a design that not only boosts capacity, but also offers more comfort? Are there any criteria that SNCB will include in future calls for tender for new rolling stock? How does SNCB intend to meet the wishes of as many passengers as possible to work on the train? Will it provide in new rolling stock silence coupons, sufficient sockets and tables designed to work on?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u129	SNCB has developed a customer-oriented culture and dynamics. The customer is at the heart of all that SNCB does and decides. Customers will be surveyed throughout the year for the quality of their services. Different parameters of the service are measured. Questions are asked about the various aspects of SNCB's services such as punctuality, comfort, cleanliness, information, etc., but passengers are also asked to give a satisfaction score to SNCB in general. New this year is a question about the security staff on board the train and at the station. Most customers associated the train with a pleasant, safe and durable means of transport that avoids the problems of parking and traffic jams. I will get you an Annex 1 on this. Another survey conducted in the course of 2019 by a thousand train passengers in the context of this satisfaction survey shows that what train passengers do on board the train is very varied. Travellers take advantage of their train journey to relax, to sleep or to think, occasionally to read the newspaper, a magazine or a book or to work. SNCB is aware of the importance of capacity. The inflow of the M7 double-deck carriages with 140 seats in the B-cars second class and 132 seats in the AB-cars will significantly increase passenger comfort as well as the number of seats. They have more seating comfort, more legroom, more space under the seats, more sockets and homogeneous indirect lighting in the carriage instead of fluorescent lamps. The delivery of the M7 equipment will enable SNCB to cope with the growth in train supply and the number of customers in the coming years. In this way, 22,000 additional seats will be added by 2022. In addition to these investments in new equipment, other equipment will be modernised.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u130	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I have seen the beautiful promotional video of SNCB a few times and there is indeed a reference to the M7 carriages that will provide more seats. However, we must not forget that comfortable and punctual trains are the best way of promoting rail transport for our commuters. So we really want to insist that we not only look at the capacity but also, for example, at the number of sockets and the legroom. We also need to think about introducing silence coupons so that people who really want to work on the train get a chance to do so. I look forward to further work on this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u131	Minister, the Dutch railway manager ProRail calls on the European Union to include passenger trains in the European Green Deal in addition to freight trains. We have just heard that the European Commission has declared 2021 European Year of Rail, so it is quite clear that it wants to target all the arrows on the trains. Research carried out by ProRail shows that as many as 2 to 8 million tonnes of CO2 emissions can be saved per year if passengers within Europe opt more for the train instead of the plane. The Dutch government drew up a position paper to encourage international train traffic. It states that the European Commission should include the ambition to strengthen international rail traffic in its plans for this legislature. For example, it calls on Member States to work together to develop a coherent train network between major cities. The Netherlands is also asking to ensure that data is available in an open manner, so that ticket sales and the provision of travel information can be made more transparent and smoother. The Netherlands also wants the European Commission to take steps to strengthen the network of high-speed trains. The Netherlands now wants to build a coalition of the willing with the countries that want to move forward. Together they want to draw up a memorandum for consideration to submit to the next Council of Transport Ministers. Does Belgium participate in this coalition of the willing to really strengthen international rail traffic in Europe? If so, what important points do you take with you from Belgium in that consultation? If not, why not? Does Belgium, as a country at the heart of Europe, not miss an enormous opportunity in this way? What is the government's position on the proposals submitted by the Netherlands in this position paper?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u132	Mrs Buyst, Belgium supports any initiative aimed at achieving better international rail links. In this context, I particularly welcome the initiative of the Netherlands to continue the debate with the European Commission. Employees of the FPS Mobility and Transport took part in a high-level expert meeting last November in Amsterdam on the theme Introducing international rail corridors for passers. It is important for Belgium to engage in a pragmatic way in order to make progress towards better coordination of the timetables of international passenger trains between the different Member States. Belgium will therefore make an effort to achieve this objective and recognises the importance of good cooperation with the Member States concerned to pursue this objective. The action to be taken must now be discussed in the first instance with the European partners. The Belgian position will be established in the context of the preparation of the TEN-T days in Croatia on 14 May 2020. When SNCB receives an application for international partnership, it responds in all cases. SNCB shall examine the file on the basis of a business case submitted to it by the applicant. If it turns out that there is a commercial interest in it, it responds to that request. This was the case, for example, in the file on the Vienna-Brussels night train.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u133	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We adopted an ambitious resolution here yesterday in committee asking Belgium to take its lead in the international train story. So I'm pleased to hear that you want to be our partner in that. However, I would urge that the Belgian position on 14 May be one of an ambitious country with regard to international rail traffic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u134	Infrabel's management agreement, which we all know is an urgent time to conclude a new one, states that Infrabel had to work on railway safety so that the number of accidents would fall by 25% by 2015. However, Infrabel has never achieved that goal. Since 2009, the figure remains stable at an annual average of 46 accidents. The answer to a written question that I was allowed to receive from you shows that Infrabel invests around EUR 10 million annually in the abolition of consideration. In 2018, however, you gave the answer to a question from colleague Raskin that Infrabel invests 30 million euros annually in improving the safety of considering. Infrabel's current strategy, which focuses mainly on the abolition of consideration, does not clearly provide more security soon enough. There are 1,700 still considering what nothing is happening. With Infrabel's investment rhythm of 21 closed consideration per year there is still 80 years of work before every road is closed. If, until then, ten people die of such a practice every year, we as a government have failed. In the United Kingdom, Switzerland and Germany, other choices are made, which do bear fruit. There are stricter conditions for unprotected consideration, one step away from half barriers and invests in controlled consideration of which trains only drive when the crossing is fully freed. That is why I am asking you this. What measures other than the closure of consideration does Infrabel take to make consideration safer? How is the budget of EUR 30 million per year for improving safety spent on railway crossings? Did Infrabel recently investigate the impact of other measures and look at the expertise of other European countries? For example, has a pilot project been set up on Obstacle Detection Technology? If so, how was that evaluated? If not, why not? Do you think that Infrabel is making sufficient efforts to improve safety? Are you satisfied with the result achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u135	Ms Buyst, Infrabel has since 2015 developed an action plan to increase safety at rail crossings, the abolition of which is not possible for budgetary or technical reasons in the short term. Since then, a number of measures have been implemented at certain railway crossings. Other measures are currently also the subject of a feasibility study. In addition, Infrabel continuously pursues a very active awareness-raising policy to prevent accidents at railway crossings. Infrabel invests around 300,000 euros each year in awareness-raising actions. Also to be mentioned is the contribution of the police and Securail, through control operations. Of the amount of EUR 30 million, which you quoted, and which is only an annual average, about EUR 10 million is spent on the abolition of rail crossings. The remaining amount shall be used to increase safety at the railway crossings, mainly through the signalling or replacement of the equipment and road surface. To this end, the safety device shall be monitored annually by the FPS Mobility and Transport, in cooperation with Infrabel, at each railway crossing on the railway network. As a result of these checks, Infrabel may place an additional safety device at a particular railway crossing. Infrabel participates each year in the various international working groups organised by the International Railway Union on safety at railway crossings. At those meetings, each infrastructure manager shall submit the new measures implemented or tested at its railway crossings. Thanks to this international benchmarking, Infrabel has been able to draw up a list of the security measures included in the action plan that can be implemented or tested on our rail network. Infrabel's many efforts to improve safety at rail crossings, ranging from technical improvements to awareness campaigns, should be underlined. These efforts need to be continued in order to achieve even better results. In certain cases, this must be accompanied by repression. Indeed, it is true that the risk factor as such is not the railway crossing, but rather the failure to respect the road code. The latter continues to consider the main cause of accidents. In more than 50% of the cases, the person concerned consciously crossed the railway crossing, although this was prohibited by the signalisation. Moreover, the projects to improve safety at railway crossings and the files on the abolition of railway crossings depend mainly on the budgets allocated, but above all on the decision of external parties, such as road managers, municipalities and local residents who sometimes block or slow down the actual implementation of certain projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u136	Mr President, Minister, it is true that there has been an action plan since 2015. Nevertheless, we must note that the current Infrabel strategy is not working enough. I've heard you explain a number of things. For example, another feasibility study would be in progress. I'm anxiously waiting for the results. I did not hear you answer my question about a pilot project on obstacle detection, which is, however, an instrument used abroad. We must think about whether this means could not produce better results in Belgium. It is true that respecting the road code is very important. It is important to raise awareness in this area. However, we must not forget that sensitisation is certainly not the only thing and that our country also has the task of ensuring that the considerations become safe. One small point I would certainly like to make is that it is true that the abolition of consideration is often delayed because municipalities or other partners do not agree to abolishing the road. However, that is precisely why we are asking ourselves whether abolishing consideration is the best way to ensure safety. We will certainly follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u137	Mr President, Minister, last December the Walloon government, through one of your colleagues, Mrs De Bue, granted a grant of EUR 796,000 to support the conversion of the Hasard coal mining plant in Cheratte. This is an ambitious project combining shops, housing, green spaces, etc.It will be really important for the redeployment of the Lige basin. This site is ideally located along the railway. But, for the moment, there is no station, no stopping point at this place. If we want this site to develop by moving towards sustainable mobility, it would be more than opportune for a new stop point to be created at the level of the site so that the new users of the site, namely both the customers and its inhabitants, but also the inhabitants of the subdivisions and the surrounding villages can use this stop point which is ideally located, that is ten minutes by train from the station of the Guillemins. Minister, is SNCB considering opening this breakpoint once this project has been completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u138	Mr President, dear colleague, the SNCB informs me that it met with the authorities of the city of Visé in September 2019. The latter would have had many contacts with Infrabel and would have agreed, as part of the removal of two crossings at Cheratte, to the possibility, if necessary, of installing new wharfs next to this new work of art. SNCB states that, in the proposed potential reopening of the station, a parking area of approximately 200 seats could be set up at this location. A suspensive clause was never mentioned at the September 2019 meeting. In addition, SNCB recalls that a possible reopening of the station must be the subject of a potential analysis by the competent services of SNCB and Infrabel and that this study will be integrated into the preparation of the next transport plan 2023-2026. It is important to know that I met with the authorities of Visé on two occasions and that I told them that it was necessary, in the framework of a communal plan for overall development integrating the rehabilitation of the site, the abolition of the two crossings at grade and a vision of mobility, to have a global vision. It is therefore necessary to bring together all the actors around the table. It's not enough to say we're going to build a station. I know a little about the site. I repeat that we must have a global vision and then see the responsibilities of each other. It is certain that if we want to make Cheratte an area of economic development without housing, a stop would not have much interest. On the other hand, I understand that we want to deploy housing there. The whole thing is to have a global vision: the number of inhabitants, the accessibility of the parking lot and the station, etc. It should also be noted that this results in an hourly impact on the Maastricht-Liège or Visé-Liège link, since any stop generates lost time of four or five minutes. It is therefore necessary to evaluate. In my view, this must be seen in a global concept of site conversion. The two successive mayors informed me of the situation. We then turned to Infrabel and SNCB. This is an opportunity for the removal of level crossings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u139	Minister, thank you for the encouraging response. The opposition did not have that information. She'll be happy to hear them. One of our concerns in the Liège region is the global vision that has been validated. And then there's the Conference of Mayors. Unlike other communal cupolas, not all political formations in the region are necessarily associated and therefore do not benefit from this information. In any case, the fact that contacts are made is very good news. I share your concern that it is not only the SNCB that is making efforts, but that it be inserted into a global plan where each actor brings his stone to the building.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u140	Minister, thank you. We have exhausted the agenda for this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u141	But, Mr. President, we are not exhausted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-04-55-commissie-ic127x.u142	Absolutely. On these good words, I close the meeting.
