ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we begin our work. Minister, welcome. There are many issues on the agenda. One new thing is that we are going to work with a countdown, as in the song The Final Countdown of the group Europe. As in the plenary meeting, we have been asked to ensure that the questions and answers are kept in mind. Colleagues, as provided for in Rule 127 of the Rules of Procedure, you have 5 minutes for the question and answer and a maximum of 2 minutes for the reply. But I have no doubt that everyone respects these speaking times.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u2	Mr President, Madam Minister, last November, the OECD published a report on the pollution risks associated with the presence of pharmaceutical residues from substances used for animal health or human health in water, particularly as conventional treatment plants are not designed to completely eliminate these pharmaceutical products. With the ageing of the population and the intensification of agriculture, the risk that this pollution will increase seems very real. While the authors of the report believe that this does not necessarily create a risk to human health, the consequences for ecosystems are real. For example, among drugs that affect ecosystems, oral contraceptives, found in streams, have resulted in the feminization of fish and amphibians. Antidepressants can alter fish behaviour, for example, making them more vulnerable to predators. There are also antibiotics, the use of which too much increases the phenomenon of antibiotic resistance for both animals and humans. Minister, there is no doubt that you have read this report. What is your view on this? In this report, the OECD notes that there are not enough actions taken to prevent the risk of recovering medicated residues from soils, water reserves, ecosystems or the food chain. The OECD also considers that current water management policies are not adapted to the effervescence of innovation and the placing on the market of new substances. What measures are you planning to adopt to stop the phenomenon?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u3	Mr President, since my answer is shorter than the question, I will use my time to wish all members of this committee an excellent year 2020. My best wishes for health, happiness, prosperity, all more formidable projects than each other, bills! We will deal with it later. I wish you and your family all the best. Good luck in 2020! Mr Senesael, a national AMR plan on anti-microbial resistance is being drafted at Belgian level. He's already been introduced to the storekeepers. Further discussions will take place before political validation at the federal level. The next step will be validation with the other levels of power involved, the Regions and the Communities. As with many materials, we are really at the limit between the environment and health. I would therefore refer you to my colleague in charge of health, Minister De Block, because she is the one who coordinates this work. Actions for the environment sector are mainly monitoring and better coordination of the studies launched and the results obtained. Actions for human and animal health upstream aim to reduce the use of antibiotics.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will follow your advice and question your colleague Mrs De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u5	Mr President, Minister, the environmental sector is telling us that we are concerned about a proposed concept concerning the interim storage of used fuel rods from the Doel and Tihange nuclear power stations. In Doel and Tihange itself new storage buildings would be built. I had two questions about that. Is the additional storage capacity really necessary? The data from the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control (FANC) and Synatom show that there is sufficient storage capacity until well after the nuclear exit. Is there a need for a new building? For Tihange one also switches from wet to dry intermediate storage. Is it merely a different type of storage or is it rather a matter of preparing for the longer period of the nuclear power plants to stop? The proposed concept raises security concerns in several areas. How do you feel about that? What do you hear from the FANC?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u6	Mr. Chair, Minister, I will go straight to the point and ask my questions immediately. Why build additional facilities in Doel? There's already a "SCG" building? Is it not enough for the temporary storage of the waste until the nuclear release, that is 2022 for Doel 3 and 2025 for Doel 1, 2 and 4. Is the capacity of the new Doel SF2 and Tihange SF2 calculated solely on the basis of intermediate storage of used fuel pencils and reactors until 2022 for Doel 3, 2023 for Tihange 2 and 2025 for Doel 1, 2, 3 and 4 and Tihange 1 and 3. Or are there other reasons for determining the capacity of new or additional storage facilities? Concerning the temporary storage of nuclear waste in Tihange, could you justify and explain the capacity of the dry storage in Tihange? Still regarding this temporary storage, could you explain why we are moving from water storage to dry storage in Tihange? Until when is it expected that the interim storage facilities of Doel SF2 and Tihange SF2 will be used? Could you tell us when the containers containing the spent fuel rods will definitely leave these buildings at the latest? Is an extension of storage in these buildings after an initial period of at least 80 years planned? Minister, I would like to conclude by offering you my best wishes for this and subsequent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand your questions and I understand that behind the chosen vocabulary of "interim storage facilities" of deactivated fuel rods or of temporary storage of nuclear waste, your questions concern the temporary storage, by definition, of spent nuclear fuel. I must begin by telling you that the existing facilities for the temporary storage of spent fuel at the Tihange and Doel sites will not be sufficient to store all the spent fuel from their reactors by 2025. This is nothing new. In fact, Synatom as part of its mission to downstream the fuel cycle already announced it in its 2014 annual report. This report is available on Synatom's website. The 2017 National Report prepared by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) for the Sixth Review Meeting of the Contracting Parties to the Joint Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel Management and on the Safety of Radioacive Waste Management also indicated this. In 2016, I was already answering written question no. 301 that you can read again (cf. Bulletin of Written Questions and Answers 54/084 of August 1, 2016) saying that "this question is not new. The Doel and Tihange sites currently have a temporary storage capacity for spent fuel up to 2022". The lifespan of Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1 has been, as you know, extended. However, whether it was extended or not, additional storage capacity had to be provided in any case. Therefore, additional storage is already planned for each of these sites. The Minister of the Interior, who had received the same kind of question in February 2018, had responded in the same direction to Oral Question No 23695. Finally, the subject of the limited capacity of spent fuel storage had already been the subject of a question, namely Question No 15655, to which one of my predecessors also Minister of Energy, Mr Magnette, had answered at the meeting of the same committee on 27 October 2009. So you can see that this file is far from being a new one. The finding is the same. The actions were identified by the operator, planned and implemented. There's no surprise. I would also like to recall that the deactivations of Tihange 2 and Doel 3 are legally scheduled by 1 February 2023 and 1 October 2022 at the latest. It is also important that spent fuel can be phased out from reactor buildings in the Doel and Tihange power plants so that these reactors can be dismantled quickly, after shutdown, but safely, in accordance with the international best practices recommended by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). In order to be able to dismantle effectively and safely, it is necessary, according to Electrabel, to carry out these new storage buildings. The choice of additional dry storage in Tihange instead of wet storage is the result of a techno-economic analysis of Electrobel based on the international experience available. All this is consistent with our national programme, which recalls that the national policy on the management of spent fuel at nuclear power plants in Belgium is "the safe storage of spent fuel followed by its reprocessing or storage in a facility dedicated to this". For the record, it was Parliament which, in the years to come, decided to put an end to the fuel reprocessing contract. It is also up to Parliament to possibly approve a new reprocessing contract which could thus limit the need for temporary storage capacity. Finally, I note that Synatom ensures that no excess new fuel is ordered for the Doel and Tihange nuclear power plants, beyond the period provided for by the law of 31 January 2003 on the progressive release of nuclear power, that is, in 2025. This is reflected in Synatom's latest annual report, which states that: "For upstream, Synatom must constantly adjust its needs coverage strategy in order to achieve, in the long term, when the last Belgian reactor is turned off, a final stock for all products close to zero." And a little further: "Synatom organizes its activities according to the law that provides for the gradual closure of nuclear units. As a reminder, the Doel 3 reactor will be shut down in 2022. Tihange's in 2023. The Doel 1, Doel 2, Doel 4, Tihange 1 and Tihange 3 reactors must all be arrested according to the law in the course of 2025. The Belgian Government has indicated its willingness to keep this schedule in mind." With regard to your sub-questions, more directly related to nuclear safety, such as Mr Verduyckt's second question, or the questions relating to Mr Warmoes' capabilities and justifications, it is not for me to position myself on them. Nuclear safety is the responsibility of the Minister of the Interior. I have already said this, but I really invite you to turn to the minister who has this competence on security matters. Capacity issues fall within the scope of the operator's proposals, which are included in the operator's application for authorisation, but are also subject to safety requirements, including, for example, Chapter 4 on specific safety requirements for spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste storage facilities in the Royal Decree of 30 November 2011 laying down safety requirements for nuclear installations. To the best of my knowledge, the application for authorisation is always being investigated by the competent authorities in accordance with the law. I cannot intervene in this procedure either. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency will make its decision in due course. We cannot determine the timing in which it will decide, since it is a totally independent agency, on nuclear safety issues. I am confident that the AFCN will ensure that the concept adopted by the operator Electrabel for the dry storage of spent fuel at power stations ensures that nuclear safety is maintained at all times. This is the role of the AFCN. My colleague the Minister of the Interior has already had the opportunity to talk to you about this in the Committee on the Interior, in particular on 9 and 23 October 2019 in his answers to questions Nos 55000354C and 55001146C. I therefore urge you to refer to him for more information or details on nuclear safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u8	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. As you say, the core trip is coming. Some power stations are going out of circulation anyway. Of course, everything is tied together in the file. We have been discussing the way in which nuclear waste is to be recovered for years. It is particularly important that the decision-making process is finally started and that decisions are made, because funding depends on how it is done. Then we can better assess these issues in a wider context. Today it is very difficult, because we do not know the final picture. It's work for the next few years. We will undoubtedly talk about this very often.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u9	Thank you, minister, for your answers, which are quite reassuring, regarding the release of nuclear power. Of course, I did not expect any further answers since the law remains the law. Thank you for tracing the various questions that have already been asked on this subject. Could I have the text in order to have all the references? We are indeed new here in Parliament. My questions were a mixture. I had already put them to AFCN in the subcommittee on nuclear safety at hearings. AFCN sent me back to you. It's not always easy to find yourself in the maze. Perhaps the questions need to be further divided. Fortunately, there has not yet been a regionalization of nuclear security, otherwise it would be even more complicated!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u10	I'll say a little bit more quickly. Mr Warmoes, we must be firm with my colleague, because he is in charge of this. Mr Verduyckt, ONDRAF is currently preparing an investigation, an impact study, a cross-border consultation with neighbouring countries as part of our national landfill program. All this takes place step by step. At the first, which is the principle of geological burial of these wastes, this investigation must take place. At each stage, surveys are also likely to be conducted to achieve the widest possible societal ownership. This is progressing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u11	Minister, let me also offer you my best wishes for the new year, as well as for your colleagues and your administration. I hope that 2020 will be a crucial year for the climate and the energy transition. My colleagues' questions concerned the approval of the production chain. My question concerns the rise of the nuclear production chain. I confess that I was alerted by German-speaking friends from Eupen who read in the German press that the German Ministry of the Environment was about to ban the export of nuclear fuel rods to power plants over thirty years old – which obviously includes power plants like Doel and Tihange. These bars are produced in the Lingen factory, a town in the Land of Lower Saxony. My questions concern supply and exports to Doel and Tihange. I wanted to know if there was any discussion between you and your German counterpart? Does this planned end of exports make it difficult to operate Belgian nuclear power plants? What is the share of nuclear fuel imported from Germany into Belgium? Is this part important or not? What other countries supply the Doel and Tihange power plants with nuclear fuel rods? Would it be interesting to understand and know the path, from the beginning to its enrichment, of the nuclear fuel operated in Tihange and Doel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u12	Madam Minister, first of all, I would also like to offer my best wishes for the coming year. The German Ministry of the Environment is apparently working on an export ban for fuel rods used for old reactors near the German border. The rods are made in a factory in Lingen, Germany. The amendment would ban the company from supplying nuclear power plants less than 150 kilometres from the border which have been in operation for more than 30 years. Target and Tihange are therefore involved. In Germany, there has been a long period of dissatisfaction with the extension of the service life of certain reactors in our country. I regret that, of course. In May 2018, the German Federal Minister for the Environment stated that this was not the right way forward. In April 2017, there was already a legal opinion that the German Government could indeed ban the supply of fuel rods to Belgian nuclear power stations Objective 3 and Tihange 2. The Germans have long had questions about the safety of these nuclear power plants. Madam Secretary, can you confirm the coverage? What is your response, Minister, to this report? Over the past two years have you been in contact with members of the German federal government and/or government members of the state governments on the matter? It is not just about nuclear fuels, but also about the presence of nuclear power stations so close to the border with Germany. Does a possible export ban on fuel rods jeopardise the operation of the plants concerned? I understand that this would not be the case, but I am sure you can explain this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like you, the German press made me aware of the existence of the working document in question. You will understand that I cannot comment on this, as it is only a working document at this stage. As far as the upstream supply of nuclear fuel for the Doel and Tihange power plants is concerned, Electrabel supplies itself with fissile material from Synatom, as you know. On the other hand, it is responsible for the production of nuclear fuels from this fissile material. To this end, Electrabel uses different suppliers. Several fuel sellers exist on the market. Electrabel uses the services of at least two of them to power its reactors. Generally, these vendors have several manufacturing plants located in different countries. The choice of these is a matter for them. In this case, only Doel 1 and 2 power plants could be affected by the change in legislation in Germany. It will then be up to the seller of fuels in contractual relationship with Electrabel to find a solution if it proves that its German subcontractor is no longer in a position to supply it. Electrabel informed me that its seller has technical solutions for making fuel in countries other than Germany. Moreover, at this stage I have not yet received a request from the operator or Synatom on this subject, which would indicate a problem to me. For the moment, I have not yet contacted my German counterpart, with whom I have the best relations – this is someone very open. If it became necessary for me to do so in a conservatory capacity, I would be happy to do so. On the other hand, my German counterpart did not alert me to this and did not inform me of the need for a meeting. However, the question of the legitimacy of such action under European law, whether in the energy field or in relation to nuclear materials – which, as you know, depend on the Euratom Treaty – should arise. We are in the commercial register, which is governed by this Treaty. In another area, by way of comparison, what would Germany or the European authorities say if, for reasons of emissions of fine particles, Belgium prohibited the import of large German diesel sedans or electricity from Germany, produced from coal or lignite and which will soon be imported through the future ALEGrO interconnection – which we are going to create with Germany? As you will have understood, the free movement of goods in the European Union is an aspect that should also be taken into account. Mr Cogolati, I would point out that the Doel and Tihange nuclear power plants are by no means obsolete (even if you did not take it back in your oral question, I read it there). You will have found that the United States has just authorized the first extensions of nuclear power plants up to 80 years. As far as Belgian nuclear power plants are concerned, I am told that they operate safely, under the strict and permanent control of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. On this point, I would refer you to my colleague the Minister of the Interior. I am not going to remind you of the law of 31 January 2003 on the phasing out of nuclear energy for the purpose of industrial electricity production, which lays down principles for the gradual exit of this industrial production by the end of 2025 and for the prohibition of new nuclear power plants in Belgium intended for the industrial production of electricity from fission of nuclear fuel. This law does not prohibit the production of new nuclear fuel. The legal framework is respected and Electrabel works under the European governance of Euratom, with contractors who are free to produce by finding other partners that enable them to provide an operator subject to the control of nuclear control agencies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers. In my question, I said that the power plants would be obsolete, according to the German government's statements to the press. It is a pretty strong position to say that Class 1 nuclear operations such as Doel and Tihange are obsolete. I didn't hear you on the supply chain. I wish to have full transparency on the sources of supply of nuclear fuel rods, which do not fall from the sky: they are produced somewhere and it is important to know that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u15	Madam Minister, thank you for the comprehensive answer. I remember that this is just a working document. I also remember that the sellers have technical solutions to remedy the problem. I think it is very good that you see the free movement of goods as an important element. You quoted the example of the diesel cars, with between the lines by a small fingering no rebuttal for your German colleagues. It seems to me that Electrabel works within the legal framework with contractors who can find other partners. Laws can change and, who knows, the lifetime of part of the nuclear capacity in Belgium may still be extended. Then you'll have to talk to your German colleagues. To be continued.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u16	Mr President, Minister, it is not easy to deal with this subject within the context of an oral question, so I will focus my question on what happened yesterday. The European Commission released yesterday the details of how it intends to finance its Green Deal. It wants to create a Fund for Righteous Transition to allow all European regions to make the transition. It is striking that all EU countries can claim support from the Fund, but then they have to draw up detailed plans for the areas they think are eligible. The Justice Transition Fund consists of three strands: EUR 7.5 billion of new funding on top of the resources of the multiannual budget. The second part is co-financing from the Member States themselves, supplemented by money from the European Structural Funds. It is an investment of EUR 45 billion, mobilised through Invest EU, an instrument used by the EU budget as a guarantee. A third pillar is the European Investment Bank, which, as we all know, will become a climate bank and will be able to raise between 25 and 30 billion in investment. Together, it would amount to EUR 100 billion to mitigate the socio-economic impact of the measure. Madam Minister, we will certainly come back to this. I know that Green even wants to bring Ursula von der Leyen to the Chamber, or has already done so. Could you give us a little more explanation at this stage? Can Wallonia and Flanders be eligible for this transition fund? What is your first political response as a minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u17	Mr Ravyts, at its meetings on 12 and 13 December 2019, the European Council adopted the objective of a climate-neutral European Union by 2050. It will form the basis of the European long-term strategy to be presented next year to the Secretariat of the UN Climate Treaty, as provided for in the Paris Agreement. The decision of the European Council follows an intense and qualitative process, launched following the publication of the Commission's proposal for a European long-term strategy on 28 November 2018, after which all relevant formations of the Council of the European Union, as well as the European Parliament, thoroughly analysed this proposal and extensively discussed the transition towards climate neutrality. The European Green Deal, proposed by the European Commission on 11 December, is the main priority of the Commission's Von der Leyen. The European Green Deal is the comprehensive framework of the various initiatives on the transition to a sustainable climate-neutral European Union. Many of the European Commission's announcements are in line with proposals that Belgium has been putting forward on the European stage for months and even years, such as the review of energy taxation directive, more ambition on the circular economy, a sound biodiversity strategy and an increase in European investment bank's climate investment. Belgium has also been asking for a long time to ensure that European budgetary and state aid rules provide sufficient flexibility to make the necessary investments. The Commission will put its concrete proposals on the table in the months and years ahead and the various Belgian entities will then jointly establish the Belgian position through the appropriate procedures. One of these proposals is indeed the just transition mechanism including a just transition fund. We await a proposal from the Commission, which will be put on the table in January, to shape our Belgian position. However, we have already indicated that we believe that this fund should not only be open to coal regions, but that all Member States should have access to it. High energy intensity regions also face strong challenges and need the necessary support. When the Commission publishes its proposal, discussions will begin at Council and European Parliament level and the modalities of the mechanism will be determined.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u18	Madam Minister, I fully understand that your answer has been prepared before what happened yesterday on financing. Thank you again for the summary on the Green Deal. My question had indeed been tabled earlier. We will probably be able to question you several times in 2020 about the modalities of the social transition fund. I agree, however, that you should focus on the fact that the fund will not only be a kind of drainage to Eastern Europe and that not only coal regions but also regions with high energy intensity will be eligible. This subject will certainly continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u19	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first of all to associate myself with the wishes that have been expressed. I extend my best wishes to all of you for a happy, creative and sustainable year. Madam Minister, on 1 December 1959, Belgium signed the Antarctic Treaty and thus participated in the preservation of the sixth continent, which at that time attracted a great deal of lust. Antarctica was thus reserved for science and peace. The Treaty entered into force in 1961 with an additional protocol on environmental protection which was signed in Madrid in 1991 and entered into force in 1998, the Antarctic Treaty System. It has largely protected this vast territory from military and industrial exploitation. This territory is 14 million square kilometres, or 10 per cent of the earth's surface. On December 2 and 3, 2019, at the initiative of a British MP, James Gray, a first Antarctic Parliamentary Assembly met in London. I had the honour of participating as chairman of the committee responsible for scientific policy, together with a colleague from this committee, Mrs Mélissa Hanus. We participated in this first parliamentary assembly to take stock of the sixtieth anniversary of the treaty. The Assembly approved a declaration to strengthen the objectives of the Treaty. The idea of the conference organizers is to establish, in a more formal way in the future, an Antarctic Parliamentary Assembly, which would meet on a biennial basis and follow up on the recommendations of the Treaty. A formal step will be taken in the coming months, through the speaker, to the House. Among the challenges to be addressed, the main one is the fight against global warming. The latter induces a spectacular melting of ice which is not without effect on marine and terrestrial biodiversity. Other issues are also discussed, such as tourism, fishing and waste management. Thus, the exponential growth of tourism activity, concentrated mainly on a specific part of the territory, is challenging. Today we are talking about 60,000 visitors a year, but this figure could rise to 100,000 in a few years. Tour operators and travel agencies must be approved by an ad hoc body and must commit to good practice in the field. Here are my questions. The first one is quite general. It is Parliament that will take a position, but in your powers today, do you support the principle of establishing an Antarctic Parliamentary Assembly? In terms of tourism activities, from Belgium, can you tell us how many tour operators, travel agencies or associations organising trips and stays in Antarctica have obtained approval for this activity? If possible, how many of these requests have changed over the last ten years? How does the approval procedure take place and what obligations do tourist operators have to fulfil? How many Belgians travel to Antarctica each year for tourist purposes? Is there any consultation and dialogue between the federal administration of science policy and the regional administrations responsible for tourism?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u20	Mr Member, under the Act of 21 July 2017 on the protection of the environment and the regulation of activities under Belgian jurisdiction in Antarctica, as Minister of the Environment, I issue a prior written permit for "any activity, either organised at the departure of Belgium, or carried out within, on board or by means of an infrastructure or vehicle which is the subject of a construction or placement in connection with an activity referred to in point A" – or to the first point I mentioned. It follows from the legal provisions in force that I exercise powers relating to tourism in Antarctica only within this precise and restricted legal framework. It should also be borne in mind that the International Association of Tour Operators in Antarctica is a structure of private law, of voluntary self-regulation of this sector of specific tourism activity, and as such, this structure is invited as an expert in meetings of Antarctic Treaty bodies. There is no approval procedure in itself. Rather, they are candidates for peer review and peer review at their annual meeting. These applications must of course be in line with certain environmental conditions but also with annual contributions which are paid and which must be paid to the association. The Belgian authorities therefore have no authority to approve any of the possible Belgian members of this association. They are therefore free to apply to join the said association, which is the very logic of the concept of association. On 1 July 2019, of the 116 members of the said association, there are currently two Belgian companies under Belgian law: SPRL Latitude Océane, based in Liège as an operator, i.e. as an experienced organizer of travel programmes to Antarctica, a member for at least a year and meeting certain membership and operational requirements related to the association; Asteria Expeditions, based in Bruges as a partner, i.e. tour operator, travel agency or organizer who does not itself manage the travel programmes but reserves the programmes of other members of the association. Only the SPRL Latitude Ocean, which uses a Belgian flag sailboat for its tourist activities, has received a written permit from the Belgian authorities for about ten years for two to three seasonal round trips from Chile to the Antarctic Peninsula. For the 2018-2019 Polar season, this represented a total of 27 tourists from all nationalities. In addition, on the basis of the law of 21 July 2017, and outside the framework of the International Association of Tour Operators in Antarctica, the SPRL Polar Circles based in Huldenberg has for three years organized "sports activities" in Antarctica with the logistical assistance of various tour operators members of the association. For the current polar season, 2019-2020, one activity received a prior written permit for four tourists, none of whom were Belgian nationals. Similarly, any Belgian pleasure craft may travel to Antarctica by means of a written permit previously issued by the Belgian authorities. The number of these activities varies from one polar season to another. For the past ten years, it has fluctuated between zero and four. On the other hand, they are always sailboats that can board only twelve passengers. The number of tourists is therefore very small. In these latter situations, the Belgian authorities in any case require the persons responsible for these activities to comply with various guidelines issued by the association. I refer you to the third federal environmental report 2015-2018 for more details on this type of tourism activity. On the basis of these developments, I am not in a position to provide you with an accurate annual figure of the number of Belgian nationals travelling to Antarctica. The statistics of the International Association for the 2018-2019 season show 100 nationalities among the 56,168 tourists, and I estimate that our nationals must represent at least 1% of the total of these visitors. Finally, the legislative section of the Council of State recalled in its opinion on the draft law of 21 July 2017 that matters concerning Antarctica are exclusive residual powers of the Federal Authority. It is therefore not required at present to involve the federated entities. I am of course in favour – and I answer your first question in the last place – of setting up an Antarctic Parliamentary Assembly, which I would be happy to follow up on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u21	Thank you. I ask the speakers to limit their speaking time to two minutes and thirty seconds. We're already ten minutes away for a question. That is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The question and the answer must be more concise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u22	Mr President, I will try to respect my speaking time, especially since it is today that the chronometer is being inaugurated. Minister, thank you for your answers. It is true that the subject is very important since it is a global issue. I would therefore like to thank you for your replies, which shed some light on the situation that is not widely known. All the details you have given will be very useful. I hope that this procedure will lead to this parliamentary assembly, which will ensure the regular monitoring of the objectives of the Treaty and, finally, the preservation of biodiversity on this continent. Of course, there are few Belgians. But, overall, there is growing pressure on this territory and in a very concentrated way in some places. This is therefore an issue that needs to be addressed in a comprehensive manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u23	Madam Secretary, plastic is hot, also in the bad sense of the word. We will also be discussing a legislative proposal on this subject. In recent years there has been a lot of interest in the project The Ocean Cleanup by Dutchman Boyan Slat. He has now also made an installation to deal with plastic in rivers. Colleagues, I suggest you watch that video. It looks futuristic, but it's been thought through. The purpose of the installation is not to drive the dirt in a blind corner, but to conduct it in a collection point and in which animals and fish have the opportunity to swim along it. Small organisms fall between the conveyor belt. This project, which he announced in the autumn, prompted me to ask a question about the plastic in our rivers. Madam Secretary, do you think this is a sensible installation to clean up our rivers? What budget is being spent today to clean up our rivers? What do you think is the way to tackle the problem of plastic in our rivers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u24	Unfortunately, I'm not responsible for this question. The policy of the rivers is a regional competence. So I can't answer you. This question must be asked to my Flemish regional colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u25	Madam Minister, I have a problem, because this question comes from the Flemish Parliament. The Minister there said that this question should be put to the Federal Minister. I'm not a constitutional specialist, but I'm gonna figure out who's gonna answer this. This is a ping-pong game. Pingpong balls are also made of plastic. So I have a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u26	Rivers are a regional competence to my knowledge. The sea and the Continental Plat are federal matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u27	The Minister said something else in the Flemish Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u28	This is the first time that Flanders has given a power to the federal level. That's a scoop.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u29	Minister, I am sorry to ask you for the third time about the famous Treaty on the Energy Charter (TEC).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u30	You're not going to be very happy with my answer...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u31	Oh, no, that's not true! Don't tell me you still haven't got an answer! I mean, I'm still going to ask my question for honor. I had already asked you about this on September 18 and December 3, 2019. I stress the important issue of this treaty, since it prevents us from fulfilling our commitments made at the time of the Paris Climate Agreement and also from moving forward in the energy transition. This text immunizes investment in fossil fuels as well as in nuclear energy. As such, a letter was sent to you by 278 European organisations, asking you to put an end to it. I come to my questions. Firstly, what are the main conclusions of the first round of negotiations, which began on 12 December in Brussels? What are the next steps? Secondly, what is our country's position on this crucial issue? Will Belgium call for the abolition of the protection of investments in fossil fuels? I am not going to repeat myself a thousand times, but it is important that we bring this treaty into line with our climate commitments. On the other hand, what is the likelihood that the request of civil organizations will be promptly approved by the various States? I know that many of them have adopted climate-responsible positions. This is particularly the case in Luxembourg, which in September asked many Member States of the European Union to stand behind a climate-responsible coalition in order to demand an in-depth modernisation of this Treaty. In addition, I wonder if the federal government has consulted with federal entities for this purpose. I know that Walloon climate minister Philippe Henry replied to the Wallonia Parliament that he was following closely the renegotiations relating to that treaty. In addition, does the European Commission's mandate not include an end to the protection of investment in fossil fuels? Finally, in view of the urgency of the climate - as is evident from these absolutely aberrant fires in Australia - what position will Belgium adopt if it appears that, in six months' time, the process is not evolving and that nothing changes in this treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u32	Mr President, Minister, the Energy Charter dates literally from the last century. However, the world has changed and conditions have changed. Even though the Charter says something about the new forms of energy, we feel, above all, that this treaty still protects fossil fuels. There's a modernisation going on. This is a good thing in itself. It should, in principle, give us the opportunity to change direction in a number of areas, in particular on the protection of fossil fuels, transparency on disputes or even the reduction of the power of the groups. I have three questions for you, Madam Secretary. When I read the National Energy and Climate Plan, I find in it the thesis that fossil fuel subsidies should be phased out. Can I assume that we will continue to do so in the negotiations on the modernisation of this treaty? This means that we are leaving the protection of fossil fuels. How do you feel about the position of the other countries? How did the talks go? If we are dealing with a treaty that does not enable us to comply with the Paris Convention on Climate Change, is it an option for our country to leave this treaty? What concrete consequences would this have?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u33	Mr President, Madam Minister, I come back to this crucial and major problem. On 10 and 11 December 2019, a first negotiating session was held in Brussels to update the Energy Charter Treaty. Signed in 1994, the text was intended to ensure the supply of nuclear and fossil energy to Europe. It protects fossil investments and this aspect of the text is not reflected in the content of the renegotiation mandate. The Energy Charter Treaty could therefore continue to be used by some Member States to circumvent climate objectives. Similarly, the dispute settlement mechanism would enable nations that want to disengage from nuclear or coal and/or have the ambition to control energy costs to be attacked. On 9 December 2019, 286 civil society organisations sent an open letter to ministers and MPs calling, inter alia, to withdraw from the Treaty if "the modernisation process fails to quickly make the agreement compatible with climate and environmental requirements". On December 3, 2019, here, I asked you about the possibility of conditioning our participation in the withdrawal of fossil and nuclear energy from the protection offered by this Treaty and the provisions relating to arbitration. The explanation given that day was not satisfactory – you had agreed to it yourself – and you had announced a more complete answer in the weeks that would follow. That's why I'm coming back to you with these same questions. Minister, what decisions were made during this first phase of discussions? Do you intend to involve the Regions in the renegotiation of the Treaty? Do you not think that it is necessary to condition our country's participation in the removal of fossil fuels and nuclear energy from the protection offered by this Treaty? If these conditions were not to be met, should we not follow the example of Italy and withdraw from this treaty, which undermines the objectives of the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer your questions. The content of this answer is better than the previous one, but may not satisfy you. Things are progressing and we still have to see that. The Belgian and European approach is rather to complement the provisions of the Treaty with provisions also protecting investments in renewable energy and promoting sustainable development, combating climate change under the Paris Agreement, as well as the transition to a low-carbon economy. The European Union and Belgium have consistently advocated that the provisions of the Energy Charter Treaty should also be amended to promote European standards for the protection of human rights, labour law, transparency and corporate social responsibility. Such an approach can only succeed if all the States signatories to the treaty move in the same direction, which would be impossible by alienating Central Asian States through measures to eliminate the protection of investments in fossil fuels. To withdraw from the Treaty in the midst of the modernization process would not be a good strategy because once a State which had accepted the provisions of the Treaty withdrew from it, it was still bound by the clauses for 20 years for investments made before the date of its actual withdrawal. The withdrawal itself shall be effective only one year after the date of notification of the withdrawal to the Energy Charter Treaty Secretariat. Belgium would therefore take the very delicate position of still being bound by a treaty but whose clauses were modernised without its opinion. It should also be noted that Belgium is the host State of the Charter Treaty. With regard to the issue of the likelihood that the requests of civil organizations would be promptly accepted by all States, the meeting held on 12 December was not the beginning of negotiations but rather the setting of time frames and matters to be negotiated as a matter of priority. Four negotiating sessions are planned for 2020: April, July, October and December. Each session will last between three and four days. The European Union has requested and obtained, with the explicit support of Belgium, that priority be given to negotiating, at the first two sessions, provisions that have an impact on sustainable development, the fight against climate change in the framework of the Paris agreements and the transition to a low-carbon economy, as well as provisions on transparency and corporate social responsibility. The first negotiations will take place from 21 to 24 April 2020. It is impossible to assess the likelihood that the European and Belgian proposals will be accepted, but it is nevertheless encouraging to note that no contracting party has opposed the opening of negotiations by European and Belgian priorities. On the subject of consultation with the federated entities, it takes place via the Energy Administration, via the Economy FPS, through the CONCERE meetings – the platform that brings together the federal and regional administrations and in which a state of affairs has been drawn up – and via the Foreign Affairs CEO. Several consultations were organised at the SPF Foreign Affairs, by the Directorate-General for European Affairs (DGE) to discuss the Energy Charter Treaty. The last three meetings were held on 23 May, 3 and 9 December. All the federated entities were invited to these meetings and most of them were represented on each occasion. The European Commission's mandate does not include an end to the protection of investments in fossil fuels. This means that Belgium, for some of its policy choices aimed at protecting the environment, could be attacked, in arbitration courts, by investors in the field of fossil fuels. I had already said that, but today I am a little more precise. In these circumstances, does Belgium consider that the Commission's mandate is sufficiently broad to achieve the Paris objectives? I have already responded to this in the first version, since we, on behalf of Belgium, have asked that issues relating to environmental protection and the energy transition go first in the negotiations. The process is therefore under way, but it is not yet finalized. The negotiating mandate given by EU Member States to the European Commission mentions the Paris Agreement, both in the General Principles and Objectives section and in the Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility section. The outcome of the negotiations must be in accordance with the mandate given to the Commission by the Council. The European Commission's objective is to respond to the concerns about the current investment protection system and to modernise it. Since we are talking about a Council mandate, this concerns the whole Union. Belgium will therefore have to consult with its partners. But the European Union as a whole will obviously have to defend priorities. Belgium will be behind the European Union. We are not going to dissociate ourselves from the European Union. We have been able to give him some cutting-edge concerns for the first two negotiating meetings. The meeting on 12 December showed that the European Union was able to speak with one voice on this issue. That's what's overriding, and that's what we're going to focus on. Belgium supports the modernisation which is taking place within the lines of the Paris Agreement. This is also in line with the consensus found within the Council. The agreement should be able to protect investment not only in conventional energy but also in renewable energy. For security of supply it is important to keep both runs open. It is important to work on, among other things, the provisions on the rule of law of states, not just for the Central Asian countries. The aim is to protect investment in both forms of energy in the modernised ECT. For the scope of investment protection, the fact that we also want to protect renewable energies, and the fact that we have placed them in a state-of-the-art position, I will remain as close as possible to the mandate. This means modernising the definition of economic activity in the energy sector in order to reflect new investment trends, and giving them protection, in particular with regard to renewable energy and energy efficiency, as well as responding to the new challenges and opportunities of the energy transition, as I said earlier. Frankly, I am trying to move as far as possible in this direction, and to put our country in a state of working order, so that we can, as far as possible, extend the work of modernising the Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for this more comprehensive answer. Once again, I really regret having to ask the question three times, in November, December and now in January. If I hear you correctly, and if I sum up correctly, what is happening in the modernisation of this Energy Charter Treaty is that, on the one hand, you are refusing to leave this Treaty, and, on the other hand, the European Commission is merely extending the protection of investments to renewable energies. You said it very clearly. It does not intend to abolish the protection that is in force today for all fossil and nuclear materials, therefore for all that constitutes poisons for the climate. This is extremely dangerous. We're really sorry, but we really need to insist. We're kind of schizophrenic. On the one hand, we are talking about a European deal, we are talking about the COP in Madrid, about the fulfilment of Belgium's commitments to the climate, and on the other hand, we are maintaining a Treaty on the Energy Charter which is not anything. This is the investment protection treaty that was most often used in arbitration tribunals by private investors to recover public money. Who's going to drink? The citizen. These are public funds, when it comes to protecting investment in coal and nuclear energy. That's not right! I really urge you, Madam Minister, to take a much stronger and more proactive position, like, for example, the Luxembourg Government, to say no to coal and to say yes to respect and the urgency of climate change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u36	Madam Minister, as the previous speaker said, this treaty was initially an economic treaty, but today we are in a very different reality. Of course, you are right that we should negotiate and that we should not get out of it today. As a host country, we also play a crucial role in this, so let us play it. However, it is not enough for the Treaty to refer to the Paris Climate Agreement and at the same time to allow companies to evade it. You say that Europe speaks with one voice. I hope that is the voice of the European Green Deal, otherwise I do not see what we are doing with the Treaty. Finally, you also say that we cannot just get out of the treaty and that if we get out, we will be stuck with the treaty for another 20 years. That may be so, and that is a clever measure from that treaty, but if we really do not agree and do not stop, then it will never end. So do not push the brakes, Madam Secretary, but give full force to the international agreements, the Paris Agreement as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u37	Minister, I thank you for your answers, although – as you predicted – they are unsatisfactory. Reaffirming its priorities is one thing, but ensuring that they do not fall within the scope of this treaty is yet another issue. I find it difficult to achieve ambitious objectives – such as those of the European Commission – without extracting fossil fuels from the scope of the Treaty. That goes even further. Indeed, I cannot imagine how it would be possible to avoid contradicting one another if the text was not rethought in its very foundations, while pursuing the objectives set by the European Commission in terms of carbon adjustment at the borders. The latter is one of the most beautiful tools imagined in the Commission's green deal, for which I have been advocating for a long time. I do not understand how we could be able to promote this mechanism while always having in our hands this devastating treaty. We will of course come back to this dossier, which we will follow closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u38	Question No 55002128C by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u39	Mr President, this is an issue that was not discussed at the sitting on 27 November. So I'm resting it today. I want to go back to the decision of the Board of Directors of ONDRAF with regard to the B&C landfill baseline and its recommendation to the Commission for Nuclear Supplies (CPN) to take the amount of EUR 10.7 billion as the basis for calculating the provisions. First of all, I wanted to ask you how long, how often and when the Board of Directors of ONDRAF is required to give an opinion to the CPN under Article 6 § 1 of the Act of 11 April 2003. Then, could you provide us with the opinion of the Board of Directors of ONDRAF for the 2019 fiscal year on the control of the costs calculated on the basis of the new scenario reported by the CPN, and on the adequacy of the provisions made to cover all the costs inherent in the management of B&C waste? For reasons of transparency, it would be very important for us to have access to this opinion of the ONDRAF. How long is the landfill of waste carried over? Do we have an estimate of the impact this will have on the amount of provisions? What are the latest recommendations from ONDRAF to the CPN? What is the assessment made by ONDRAF of the various recommendations of the 2013 and 2016 reports? Have they been monitored? Finally, the risks raised by ONDRAF when the potential under-evaluations and its recommendations were taken into account by Electrabel, Synatom and CPN? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u40	As required by law, every three years, the nuclear supply company Synatom submits to the CPN for its opinion a proposal to revise the basic features of the establishment of provisions for the dismantling and management of irradiated fissile material, such as the underlying strategic approach, the development programme, the implementation programme, the timing, the estimation of the necessary financial resources, the amount of expenditure and the payment schedule. The CPN is required to deliver its opinion in the absence of a day. The CPN requests the opinion of ONDRAF on this revision proposal and allocates approximately two thirds of this time to ONDRAF to verify the existence and adequacy of provisions for the dismantling and management of irradiated fissile material. The CPN delivered its opinion on 12 December 2019. It received the opinion of ONDRAF on 14 November 2019, following approval by its Board of Directors on the same day. As the committee's work is confidential, so far I do not have this opinion from ONDRAF. In my opinion, it was because the question had been asked in November and I did not have one. Today, I have it, but the follow-up to the answer which is also prepared by my administration is as follows. The CPN must work independently and, while working, we are obviously not going to ask it to open up publicly to what it is doing. In order to ensure proper prudential supervision of its legal mission, it needs all the necessary independence and I am not convinced that this confidential report can be released publicly without I put the question very officially to the said CPN, which I am going to do. The CPN had increased nuclear power supplies by 1.8 billion and a further increase by 2.1 billion at the end of 2019. As I said in plenary, I repeat that, under my leadership, a series of very large increases have been made, from 7 billion in 2013 to 14 billion today in 2020 in terms of nuclear provisioning. In its 2018 reference financial scenario for waste categories B and C, ONDRAF postponed the landfill of this waste by about 30 years. This deferral certainly has an impact on the updating of provisions, but it is not the only element that has been changed in this scenario. It is therefore difficult to isolate the impact of this element from all the others that have evolved in the 2013 baseline scenario, which I have just talked about globally in financial terms. The recommendations made by ONDRAF in the context of the three-year review in 2013 and 2016 were followed up before the 2019 revision exercise. Both ONDRAF and CPN took into account the follow-up to these recommendations during this review exercise. Depending on these types of recommendations, they are judged to be fully or partially followed by Synatom, sometimes after reformulation. Some recommendations may also be judged to be out of date or to be out of action. In fiscal year 2019, the risks raised by ONDRAF with respect to potential under-evaluations were partially taken into account by Synatom. The CPN has therefore decided to increase the estimates of provisions following the assessment made by ONDRAF, including its request to take into account a scenario of 10.7 billion, as a baseline scenario for geological storage of Category B and C waste. This exercise resulted in an increase of 2.1 billion euros by 31 December 2019. In conclusion, this is an area on which this government has been extremely vigilant. As I have said and have done over the last five years, the polluter pays principle must be applied rigorously. The citizen does not have to pay a eurocent for the dismantling of power plants and the treatment of waste. The State does not have to assume this responsibility in place of the producer who is solely responsible for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u41	Do you have any news...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u42	No. The answer I gave you is still valid today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u43	Therefore, we do not have access to this document as you feel it should remain confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u44	I'm going to ask the CPN and the ONDRAF.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u45	It is important to have access to this document to understand the criticisms that can be made by ONDRAF for the provisioning, dismantling and management of nuclear waste.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u46	Madam Minister, eight major companies in Antwerp have recently signed a cooperation agreement to examine the technical and economic feasibility of Carbon Capture Utilization & Storage and a CO2 infrastructure to support it. The consortium wants to explore the possibilities for capture and storage of CO2 and the use of CO2 as raw material for different applications. Wide financial support from the federal government, the Flemish government and the EU is considered indispensable. Belgium does not have the appropriate subsurface to store CO2 offshore. That is why international cooperation will be necessary. Port of Antwerp and a number of partners have therefore already entered into two project applications to be recognised by the European Commission as projects of common interest. These projects examine the feasibility of CO2 storage in Rotterdam and Norway. In March 2018, you signed a declaration in Bergen, Norway to strengthen cooperation between Norway and Belgium in the field of energy. In spring 2019, the Flemish government decided to invest 20 million euros each year in innovation and research to become CO2 neutral by 2050. The Investment Plan means that innovation projects that can demonstrate that they can provide significantly less CO2 emissions or more capture, storage or reuse will receive further support. The Flemish Government has therefore already taken an initiative in this respect. What is your view on support for the reception, storage or reuse of CO2 in Belgium in the light of the climate transition? What support is currently being planned by the federal government? What are the options for the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u47	Mr Ravyts, the transition to a low carbon economy will have important implications for the composition of the Belgian energy mix. There may also be a role for technologies such as CCUS. The distribution of decarbonisation powers in Belgium is complex. On the initiative of the federal government and in consultation with the Regions, a legal analysis of the distribution of these powers was launched. The aim is to develop a coherent policy. In addition, it is important to mention that the ETS or emission trading scheme will also play a leading role in the profitability of measures to reduce CO2 emissions in, inter alia, industry. The system falls within the competence of the Belgian authorities responsible for the environment. Within the framework of the European Green Deal, the Commission will propose a decarbonisation package for the gas sector which will include the aspects of future energy policy in that area. In the preparation of the decarbonisation package, cooperation between the federal government and the Regions on this issue was already launched in 2019 under ENOVER. This cooperation will be strengthened in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u48	Madam Minister, I do not seem to be asking such simple questions and I understand that there is still a need to adjust the precise allocation of powers. You yourself said that the decarbonisation package for the gas sector will become very important in the coming years. However, it seems that concrete cooperation between regional authorities and the federal government is still being sought. I have also explicitly outlined the initiative of the Flemish Government on CO2 storage. I hope that the federal government will be able to provide the necessary support for this. I will therefore continue to monitor the project. After all, it is very important for the chemical sector in Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u49	Madam Minister, in order to ensure that customers receive green electricity when concluding a green electricity contract, the system of guarantees of origin is normally used. A producer and salesman of green energy now goes one step further by also using blockchain technology. It provides additional certification and shows that daily consumption is effectively covered by local green electricity produced in Belgium. On 19 December 2019 it was announced that a contract for green electricity with blockchain certification was concluded for the first time in this country. Blockchain technology can provide real-time and fraud-proof proof of the green energy consumption of a company's industrial sites. Moreover, the authenticity of the green electricity is also certified in a way that goes beyond the standards within the current system of guarantees of origin. The web platform developed by the producer should enable companies to visualise their real green energy consumption in all transparency in the form of certificates registered daily in the blockchain. In the long term, for example, the share of renewable energy in the company's total electricity consumption can be linked to the products it produces. Madam Minister, what is your view on using blockchain technology to ensure even more strongly the origin of electricity and to improve control over the use of green energy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u50	I apologise, Mr Van Lommel, but this is about a competence of the CREG. I have sent your question to the CREG, but I have not yet received an answer. We will therefore have to wait a little longer for the answer I expect in the coming days. I'll get you the answer then.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u51	I understand, Madam Minister, that you have not yet received the answer from the CREG. We will certainly have to come back to it in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u52	Mr President, I am talking a lot about ONDRAF today! This issue concerns more specifically its Insolvency Fund. The mission of ONDRAF is to set up a fund to finance radioactive waste management services and the classification of nuclear installations not covered by bankruptcy or insolvency. If this Fund is useful, it is not without flaws, as the ONDRAF and the Court of Auditors have recently revealed. I would therefore like to ask you several questions. First of all, is this maximum threshold of EUR 22 million still in force? Is it based on the assessment of the cost of waste management at a single Class 2 facility (not Class 1) without taking into account any margin in the event of misappraisal? How would radioactive waste management and decommissioning be financed if one or more Class 2 nuclear facilities were to go bankrupt and the Fund would then be insufficient? Secondly, the Court of Auditors refers to an implicit exclusion of operators of Class 1 establishments. I am targeting Doel and Tihange nuclear power plants in particular. What in the event of insolvency? What is this implicit exclusion and how would radioactive waste management and decommissioning of Class 1 facilities be financed in the event of bankruptcy and insolvency? I believe that the question put by the Court of Auditors is of interest and I would like to have an answer. In addition, there are other defects, including the polluter pays principle that you mentioned earlier. Clearly, in the ONDRAF's Insolvency Fund, it would not be applied, as some institutions could benefit from it without having contributed to it! Finally, more broadly, what measures have been taken since 2018 to respond to these criticisms, in particular those of the Court of Auditors and to increase the total amount of reserves? This is also a kind of security for the future and everything to do to ensure that the Belgian citizen did not drink in the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u53	Mr President, the purpose of the Insolvency Fund is exclusively to finance ONDRAF's services for the management of radioactive waste and the decommissioning of nuclear installations in bankruptcy or in the event of the insolvency of radioactive waste producers and nuclear plant operators authorised by the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN). In accordance with Article 15, § 5, 2° of the Decree of 30 March 1981 determining the tasks and laying down the procedures for the operation of that public body, the Insolvency Fund was not intended to cover the possible insolvency of nuclear power plant operators. They are, as you know, subject to the obligations of the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and for the management of irradiated fissile material in these plants. There is no legal basis requiring ONDRAF to systematically obtain the approval of the trustee in case of recourse to the Fund. Calculated in accordance with Article 15, § 5, 2° of the Royal Decree I mentioned, the limit of the Insolvency Fund is now set at EUR 22.1 billion. It shall be reviewed every five years as part of the inventory of all nuclear installations and sites containing radioactive substances to be established and updated by ONDRAF under Article 179(2), (6) of the Act of 8 August 1980 on the 1979-1980 budget proposals. Within this framework, the limit of the Insolvency Fund will be reviewed in 2023. The organisation shall assess whether the costs of dismantling the sites are properly estimated and whether they can be adequately met by the operators or by the financial officers designated by them. In the body's 2018 annual accounts, the amount available in the Insolvency Fund is EUR 21.4 billion. Contributions shall be made on the basis of waste transferred to ONDRAF and not on the basis of waste stored at the operator's site. For the past four years, Electrabel has contributed to the Insolvency Fund for the following amounts. In 2018: €533 million; in 2017: €291 million; in 2016: €282 million; in 2015: €417 million. Finally, with regard to your last question on nuclear power plants, at present the legislation does not provide for the obligation for parent companies to intervene in situations where owners and/or operators of Belgian nuclear power plants do not have sufficient funds to meet the costs of dismantling and managing radioactive waste. I repeat, as I have already said on several occasions, that I have worked extensively on this subject concerning the amendment of the Act of 11 April 2003 concerning nuclear provisions and that a bill exists, which is very detailed and very sculpted on this subject, of which it is of course up to Parliament to deal with, as well as other proposals that exist in this field. My collaborator, who follows us online, tells me that it is millions, not billions. I'm so sorry. As it is not indicated in all letters, sometimes I am wrong. I thank my collaborator for his vigilance. He can hear us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u54	Madam Minister, thank you and your colleague, who is on-line and to whom I wish my best. I note that the shortcomings identified by the Court of Auditors remain. As we know, the law of 11 April 2003 does not allow us to turn to the parent companies of Belgian nuclear power plant operators in the event of insolvency. You have repeated that, in fact, the insolvency fund provided for by ONDRAF does not cover Class 1 establishments and, therefore, our nuclear power plants. The possibility of Electrabel being unable to meet its obligations is a major challenge for the federal government. Indeed, it is not up to our citizens to pay the bill for radioactive waste.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u55	Mr President, Minister, last week we found that for the second year in a row CO2 emissions from newly sold cars have increased in the country. Today, average emissions would be 121.2 grams of CO2 per km, corresponding to the same level of 2014. One of the causes would be the switch from diesel to petrol cars which have increased consumption and thus increased CO2 emissions. Ladies and gentlemen, the change in fuel taxation has, however, been encouraged by the government. Some other reasons would include the new WLTP standards that give a more realistic estimate of emissions, and the higher number of SUVs registered. Madam Secretary, that is why I have the following questions. Do you recognise that the decision to make petrol cheaper and diesel more expensive has led to an increase in CO2 emissions through the sale of new cars? Taking into account the latest technologies, how do you compare the effects of diesel cars with petrol cars? Finally, what measures are you planning to take to reduce CO2 emissions again in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u56	Mr President, Madam Minister, first of all, I wish you a happy New Year. However, on the eve of the Auto Show, many distressing studies were published on issues related to increased emissions from the automotive sector. Again at the beginning of this week, an article in L'Écho revealed that, according to the International Energy Agency, SUVs would be the second largest cause, at the global level, of the increase in CO2 emissions between 2010 and 2018, just after the energy sector. This growing sector now accounts for 39.1% of vehicle emissions in Belgium, compared to 30% in 2017. The progress is therefore staggering and is not ready to stop, if we do nothing. For example, the average CO2 emissions from new vehicles registered in Belgium in 2019 are again increasing, for the second consecutive year, while it has been declining steadily for the last 20 years. In fact, the sale of SUV completely annihilates the industry's efforts in terms of cleaner technology and vehicle electrification. If other factors are pointed out, such as the transfer of sales from diesel vehicles to gasoline vehicles or the shift to new standards that could potentially distort the calculation, no one today denies the co-responsibility of SUVs, which are heavier and larger and therefore more energy-intensive, in this increase. Minister, what do you intend to do to stop this trend?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u57	Madam, sir, the aim of the reform was to take better account of pollution other than carbon, in particular nitrogen oxides. These may result in decreased lung function or increase the risk of respiratory diseases and allergenic reactions. Since the Dieselgate, Belgium has supported the reduction of maximum carbon emissions, the consideration of fine particulate matter and the adoption of a more representative method of assessment of driving in real conditions – so-called WLTP. In this context, the adoption of Regulation 2019/631 is a key element. I support the measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and pollutants from road transport as part of the commitments to reduce emissions and improve air quality. The objective of European policy is to offset the impact of transport on health and the environment by 2050. This objective means that the use of fossil fuels for transport will be definitively abandoned by 2050. The latest technologies of hybrid, electric and hydrogen-powered cars......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These new technologies provide a solution to reduce pollutant emissions in cities. However, I note that the manufacturers are developing more and more SUV cars for urban traffic. Those cars require more resources and energy because they are bigger and heavier. This trend runs counter to the desire to reduce the impact of traffic on the environment. Moreover, more and more cars are driving on our roads that are travelling more and more kilometres and creating congestion that is bad for the environment, health and competitiveness. The many official tools are available to help consumers choose their vehicle. I insist that you advertise it because I find that every time I refer to the site on social media, people find it easy to use and that it really helps the decision to buy a vehicle. The website energivores.be allows to know the actual emissions of vehicles. As of September 1, 2017, dealers are required to use WLTP tests on CO2 labels next to vehicles for sale. These tests better reflect actual vehicle emissions. Furthermore, in order to ensure the best integration of all pollutants, since 1 September 2019, NOx emission values must also be indicated on the label. This measure goes further in Belgium than European requirements. At European level, I support as ambitious targets as possible for the reduction of CO2 emissions from cars. In addition, I have expressed my support for the abolition of the utility factor mass which favours the toughest vehicles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u58	Madam Minister, I believe that you have answered the questions in rather general terms, but have not reached the essence. You are talking about the new technologies of the future. That is indeed the right starting point, but we have a certain level of taxation today. It was a deliberate decision of the government to make diesel more expensive and petrol cheaper. We note that diesel cars consume more than a third less and that the latest engines emit even less particles than what is present in the air at the time. If I were to believe the studies, the diesel cars would even filter air during traffic jams. Madam Minister, I am not saying that we should promote this, but perhaps it was not the right choice to use taxation to ensure that CO2 emissions have increased significantly. The SUV may be a particle of the cause but certainly not complete. Madam Minister, I also refer to Professor Proost who says that if we want to reduce CO2 emissions, we will have to impose on car manufacturers a 50% reduction in CO2 emissions from the average car. That is a lot different and much more realistic than what I see passing through here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u59	I agree with you, but I'm also in ongoing business. Taxation is up to the next government, que nous attendons imperative.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u60	There are a lot of legislative proposals on taxation on the agenda. We'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u61	We'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u62	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is pleased that websites exist to inform consumers. But the marketing strategy put in place by car manufacturers to encourage the purchase of maximum SUVs is much stronger in terms of influence on consumer behaviour than a simple information site. It will be up to the next government to do more and stop with laws this movement that goes in the wrong direction, in terms of reducing emissions, road safety and the quality of public spaces.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u63	Madam Minister, the Energy Transition Fund seems to me to be a particularly useful instrument. Businesses are absolutely not an opponent and can be a partner when it comes to achieving sustainability goals. Many companies also want to work on this and hence the Energy Transition Fund to support companies in the transition in the company. I'd like to see some fog cleared up. The last time the fund was discussed was spring 2019 at the Council of Ministers. I have seen that credits were provided to support projects in 2019, but we have not found any decisions. Madam Minister, is it true that no projects were approved for 2019? Or is that still going to happen? What's the decision about that? What about the 2018 projects? Were they evaluated? Has there been a first look at the results of the projects that you have supported? Could you give me a little more information on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u64	Mr Verduyckt, on 6 September 2019, the Federal Council of Ministers decided to support 17 project proposals with the Energy Transition Fund. That financial support amounting to EUR 29,112,382,89 shall be charged to the expenditure appropriations of the Energy Transition Fund budget fund under the programme 42/9 of the 2019 General Expenditure Budget of the Federal Public Service Economy. To this end, 17 royal decisions to support the projects concerned were issued on 23 October 2019. I'll send you the list of these projects so I don't have to read them out. I confirm that 36 project proposals were submitted following the call of 20 August 2018. No information is available on the actual reduction of CO2 emissions thanks to the selected projects. More information will be published on the website of the FPS Economy about the 17 recently selected projects. Indeed, the 18 projects selected for support from the Energy Transition Fund before 2019 are currently subject to an evaluation, which will be finalised in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u65	Madam Minister, it is good to hear that support has been given to these projects. I was somewhat afraid that the political situation might not have caused this to happen. It's a good thing you made that decision. I look forward to the list of projects. I find an evaluation very useful. It is a very good instrument, but we must also, of course, check whether our money is being used properly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u66	Never be afraid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u67	Mr President, I see that my two questions have been joined. Yet their relationship is quite limited. It's all right. I'll do my best to make one. The first concerns speculation. I confess that I had never heard of this before. I was preparing for New Year's Eve by reading the newspaper L'Écho on December 31. The newspaper told us that the dismantling of nuclear power plants in the United States was creating a whole new type of market. Companies are taking back power plants to dismantle them themselves. NorthStar would have formed a consortium with the French group Orano, which is also active in our country. I wanted to know if this practice is legal in our country. Of course, it raises many concerns about the technical and financial capabilities of these groups to carry out their dismantling tasks. ONDRAF told the newspaper that there was no file, but that it would in theory be possible for such companies to settle in Belgium. I wanted to know if you were informed, and what was your position regarding the emergence of this new type of market. It would be interesting to know whether our nuclear power plants could be subject to speculation by French or American groups in the dismantling phase. As far as this dismantling is concerned, it is a more general question that I asked you. The IAEA, and this is also the method adopted by our French neighbours, requires the rapid, direct and immediate dismantling of power plants. I know that in the United Kingdom it is another method, another strategy of dismantling that is in place. It is a delayed dismantling, which does not take place directly, but only 60 or 120 years after the installation is finally shut down. Minister, what is the federal government's dismantling strategy to date? Have you studied other possible dismantling strategies, as mentioned in other European countries. Can you provide us with the different scenarios for estimating the necessary provisions and the social, demographic and economic benefits for these different types of dismantling? Does the government also intend to legally establish a strategy for dismantling in the near future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u68	Mr President, Mr Cogolati, as regards your first question, the developments in the decommissioning of nuclear power plants in the United States, which you mention, do not constitute the rule either in the USA or in Europe or Belgium. This is a first commercial case in this type of case, which the whole sector is watching with great attention. I would also like to congratulate you on your readings of 31 December, since you have put your finger on a first. The regulatory framework in the USA and Belgium, although very comparable in terms of nuclear safety and security, you can imagine, is an international problem, and it is different in terms of radioactive waste and spent fuel management. It is therefore always difficult to extrapolate the matter to the Belgian case. Innovation in decommissioning will be welcome, so as not to unnecessarily delay the dismantling of deactivated nuclear power plants. However, it is never necessary in these matters – you will agree – to confuse speed and precipitation. A responsible exit from industrial electricity production in Belgium by fission of nuclear fuels, as provided for in the law of 31 January 2003, requires that every effort be made to ensure strict respect for nuclear safety and security in order to avoid the transfer of undue burdens to future generations. We will follow this closely to see if things can be integrated into our experience in Belgium and which we have already mentioned elsewhere. In your second question, as you know, Decree No. 17.2 of the Royal Decree of 20 July 2001 on the general regulation of the protection of the population, workers and the environment from the danger of ionizing radiation, adopted pursuant to the Act of 15 April 1994 on the protection of the population and the environment from the dangers resulting from the same radiation and constituting it in the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control, provides that the dismantling of installations forming part of Class 1 establishments is subject to prior authorization by the King. As such, the decommissioning strategy to be implemented by the nuclear power plant operator will be the strategy that will have been taken up in the decommissioning authorisation which will follow the operator's request for authorisation. Like immediate dismantling, delayed dismantling is one of the possible dismantling strategies subject to an application for authorisation. It should be noted that the Royal Decree of 30 November 2011 prescribing the safety of nuclear installations - not only nuclear power plants but all nuclear facilities in our country - strictly and with even stricter conditions the case of an operator choosing a deferred dismantling, including an obligation to justify this strategy, including an analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of the strategy chosen in relation to those of immediate dismantling and an analysis of the implications for safety and an adequate maintenance and monitoring programme which guarantees the safety of the establishment during the period prior to the start of dismantling. This justification shall be subject to the attention and evaluation of the competent authority. As you know, the issue of authorisation concerns a nuclear safety competence for which I refer you to my colleague from the Interior. As Minister of the Environment, I would like to recall that the issuance of such an authorization is also subject to the environmental impact assessment and public consultation, as I referred to in a previous response. As far as the nuclear operator is concerned, like you, I was able to read in ENGIE's 2018 reference document that "the dismantling strategy is based on an immediate dismantling (i) following the shutdown of the reactor, (ii) carried out in series rather than unit per unit, and (iii) on a complete return to a greenfield industrial, allowing for future industrial use of the land". Provisions for this dismantling shall be made on the basis of the following parameters. This is first of all the beginning of the technical operations to shut down the installations and functions of the unit concerned and the sequencing of operations for the whole fleet, immediately followed by the dismantling phase. Second, the costs actually incurred in the future may differ from those estimated, given the nature and timing of the costs. In addition, their amount could be adjusted at a later stage in the light of the changes in the parameters presented above. In addition, the assumptions used have a major impact on the costs associated with implementation. However, like them, these parameters are based on information and estimates which the ENGIE Group considers to be the most appropriate to date and approved by the CPN. In addition, the scenario is based on a decommissioning plan and timetables to be approved by the nuclear safety authorities. The current choice of the planned decommissioning strategy as well as the future content of the dismantling authorisation application is neither the responsibility nor the responsibility of the government, but – as I have just said – those of the nuclear operator – in this case, the private company Electrabel, to which you can obviously ask all the necessary questions. Of course, the choice of the strategy for dismantling a nuclear facility has an impact on the production of radioactive waste and, therefore, on the missions of ONDRAF. This is why the legal and regulatory framework provides that it is associated with the processing of applications for authorization submitted by the AFCN. Similarly, the level of nuclear power supplies is affected by this measure. The CPN has confirmed to me that Synatom has proposed, in the last three-year period, the immediate dismantling scenario as a basis, as a hypothesis to estimate the future costs of dismantling and therefore as underlying provisions for dismantling. I would remind you that the three-year re-evaluation exercise conducted by the CPN ended in December 2019 and that, despite the limited context of the law of 11 April 2003, it concluded that there was an increase of 2.1 billion euros, as I said earlier. The government is very active in this area and continues to be vigilant. I therefore continue, despite the very long development in this area, with careful attention, to interact with the institutions so that the path can be followed properly. Let us not forget, however, that in the scenarios that we are now beginning, the closure of the lids in the geological burial, the location and depth of which have yet to be determined, must take place in 2120. You may still live!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u69	Madam Minister, you are right to point out at the end that this long-term solution for radioactive waste in Belgium will not be ready tomorrow. It won't be ready in 2025. So it's nice of ENGIE Electrabel to talk about greenfield and the usability of the site, whether it's Doel or Tihange. When we see that ENGIE Electrabel is now asking for permission to put its spent nuclear fuel there until at least 2100, we realize that the Tihange site will not be ready to be used by another industrial operation for a very long time, in any case not until at least 80 years. The role of the federal government is to impose very clear beacons in order to dismantle the site as quickly and effectively as possible and to demand the immediate dismantling of the site to enable it simply to return to a new life. At least that's what we expect in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u70	Mr Cogolati, I would like to point out a little detail. In principle, I'm right. The problem is that we are dealing with a particular material that we cannot walk as we want or where we want and which must also cool before being treated. I'm not going to go into long explanations because it's not my personal core business at all. A nuclear engineer would explain this to you very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u71	It is all in the interest of the federal government to set very clear technical beacons for dismantling today, because 2025 is tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u72	That's what we do. We're very demanding. Don't worry!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u73	Madam Minister, there is a great deal of thought about the sustainable energy supply for Belgium and the energy transition. One of these thinking groups is the Metaforum working group, an interdisciplinary working group within the KULeuven. Yesterday, he proposed a text of vision, which reached the press in Flanders quite extensively. The researchers argue that the potential of the European policy framework is not yet sufficiently known in Belgian and Flemish policy and is not yet sufficiently exploited, leading to increased costs for energy and climate policy. One of the key issues they put forward is that unilateral policies in the three EU ETS sectors, despite the existing correction mechanism, will only result in limited emission reductions at EU level. Its net effect may even be perverse. Belgium and the Länder do not in any way control total European CO2 emissions in the ETS sectors, but would not be sufficiently aware of them. Remarkable in the vision text is the fact that researchers stress that the renewable energy objective should not necessarily be achieved in the country, i.e. in Belgium itself. The Belgian renewable energy target can be achieved at a lower cost abroad by statistical transfers. This means, for example, that Belgium would place additional renewable energy installations in another Member State and that they would count for its renewable energy quota. According to Metaforum, this has not been sufficiently explored by politicians in Belgium. It is therefore very important for Belgium not only to follow European policies automatically, but also to obtain the greatest cost-effectiveness benefits with knowledge. According to the researchers, this is happening too little. According to the researchers, electrifying the fleet remains too expensive a way to save CO2. A smart way to reduce CO2 is to invest in technologies that can benefit less climate-conscious countries. Europe will soon be responsible for only 10% of global emissions. Today the press is, of course, talking about making cars more economical on fossil fuels. Madam Minister, can you, as far as you or your staff have read the text of the vision, endorse, refute or comment on some of its conclusions relating to federal policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u74	Mr President, Mr Ravyts, although on Monday 13 January the press briefly referred to some of the conclusions of the vision text, the text itself was not proposed until Tuesday 14 January. You will understand that for the time being, I can only reply briefly to your question. However, I can say that the central question of the vision text is what can be a good long-term energy and climate policy for Belgium. Although the work group's contribution is very interesting and I will respond to some of their statements and recommendations in a moment, I must first of all remind you that Belgium has already drawn up an integrated National Climate and Energy Plan, including objectives and measures to achieve it. They were sent to the European Commission on 26 December 2019. I understand that, for everything, the working group stresses the importance of the European emissions trading system and that unilateral policies by the Belgian and regional authorities in the sectors concerned have little or no impact on total emissions, which requires the working group to advocate a position by Belgium in this discussion in order to weigh on the decisions taken at European level. I can only support the idea that it is preferable for Belgium to take an active part in European policy with one voice. The Working Group also advocates measures in the sector outside the ETS, such as buildings and transport, as they do reduce CO2 emissions net. I refer both to the NEKP, which already contains many measures in these sectors, and to the competent colleagues. I also read that the working group underlines the role of good information, of well-founded policy preparation and of the social debate. When possible, I have always involved the various stakeholders and the general public in the debate. This is essential in order to create social support. This also underlines the importance of sound research and calls for more investment in it. I can only agree with the importance of R&D and I am also pleased that I have already been able to allocate several millions to it over the past few years through the Energy Transition Fund. With regard to the conclusion you quoted that we lack knowledge of the possibilities offered by the European policy framework to achieve our objective cost-effectively, I can assure you that this possibility is well known to myself and to the administration. However, as has just been mentioned, it is important to have a certain degree of support and, at the moment, the enthusiasm for investing in measures beyond our national borders is rather limited. Then the researchers also look at security of supply, pointing out that we need sufficient production capacity in Belgium or our neighbouring countries and that we need sufficient interconnection capacity to exchange energy between countries. Thanks to the many efforts and investments in transmission capacity we have already made, I firmly believe that Belgium, with its high interconnection rate, can certainly set an example in this area within Europe. Finally, the Working Group stresses that hydrogen should only be used in applications where electricity cannot be used directly. My administration is currently studying and preparing a policy framework on hydrogen, taking into account, of course, the efficiency of this form of energy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u75	Madam Secretary, I fully understand this. The vision text and the activities of that working group are a very theoretical exercise, but you should not underestimate the impact of the numerous articles published on public opinion in Flanders on the part of the vision report. Mr President, it may be useful to invite Metaforum here in the next few weeks or months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u76	Madam Minister, on 9 December 2019 an appeal was brought by the Council of Ministers to the Constitutional Court for the destruction of Article 42 of the Flemish Decree of 26 April 2019 on the roll-out of smart meters. Article 42 against which the appeal was lodged deals with the possibility, for existing installations, of using the compensation for the energy part for a period of 15 years. What is the motivation of the Council of Ministers to appeal against that article?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u77	I must remind you in advance that there were no fewer than six appeals against the relevant decree, namely the VREG, the CREG, the League of Human Rights, the FEBEG, a private and the Council of Ministers. On 5 December 2019, the Council of Ministers decided to bring an action for annulment before the Constitutional Court against the Decree of the Flemish Region of 26 April 2019 amending the Energy Decree of 8 May 2009. The following motivation was given for this purpose. It follows from the Decree that, even if it is a mechanism to compensate for the loss of sales revenue, compensation also results in the parties concerned not contributing or barely contributing to all kinds of federal charges, including transmission rates, the federal surcharge, the federal contribution and value added tax, while using the network infrastructure twice as a producer and consumer. In this way, federal powers are introduced, both in terms of energy and in terms of taxation. In its opinion No. 62.977/3 of 20 March 2018 writes the Council of State quote: "The compensation also results in beneficiaries being exempted from the federal contribution and the federal surcharge. In this way, the federal energy powers are again being interfered with. Although the regions may support the production of green electricity, the jurisdictional rules imply that they finance those measures from their own resources and do not partially charge them to the federal government. An accompanying measure, within the framework of the green flow certificate system, can only take place to the extent that it does not affect federal powers." On 22 July 2018, the CREG had already asked the Flemish Minister for Energy by letter to request an amendment to the decree, without result. Therefore, it is now necessary to bring an action for annulment. As Minister for the Environment, I want to maintain and encourage investment in renewable energy. Therefore, in consultation with the Regions, I would like to make a quantified analysis of whether or not there is an impact on the federal contribution by regulating the digital and reverse counter. If there is an effective impact on the resources to be paid by the relevant distribution system operators, solutions will be sought to overcome the shortfalls, respecting the division of powers between policy levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u78	Madam Secretary, this was an answer with food and drink.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u79	It wasn't impuvable, it was food and drink.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u80	It wasn't impuvable. By food and drink, I mean that we could read between the lines that the federal government is going to ask the Flemish government for funds to match the deficits in the federal contribution. At least we could read that between the lines. Of course, the customers in Flanders and Brussels who have a bidirectional meter and the customers who have a reverse counter are treated differently today for the federal contribution. Perhaps this could be a slope for the appeal to the Constitutional Court. However, I would like to thank you for the interesting answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u81	Mrs Van der Straeten, there are six appeals. The issues are highly technical and must be resolved in a manner that respects competence. It is therefore a matter for everyone to exercise their powers within the limits laid down. I understand the problems of discrimination but let us not comment in advance on the work of justice. We will see how the Court will respond to this set of appeals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u82	Absolutely. Of course, I can only question you about the profession of the Council of Ministers and not about the other six. Secondly, we can await the judgment of the Constitutional Court, but you yourself said that we can also consult with the other regions to see where the solution lies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u83	According to the Law of 20 December 2019, Articles 2 and 3 of the Royal Decrees of 19 December 2018 on the federal contribution were not ratified. The law also provides that the amount of funding for this will come from the Fund for flat-rate reductions for natural gas and electricity heating. Article 107 of the Law of 8 January 2012 provides that the King shall, by royal decree, lay down the rules for the use of the balance of the fund. What progress has been made with the implementation of the Law of 20 December 2019? Has a draft royal decree already been drawn up?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u84	Mr. Chair, Minister, I have tabled two questions following the hearings that took place last week. The first relates to dormant energy funds. Thus, following the hearings on our motion for a resolution on the Gas and Electricity Fund, it seems that several funds created to help people pay their energy bills are dormant funds, as the CREG also calls them. Could you give us a complete and exhaustive list of these dormant funds and what they represent in terms of available amounts? What is planned for their use? I have already noted a heating fund worth 24 million; a public fund for the oil sector worth 12 million; a gas convector fund worth 3.7 million. But I would like you to give me the latest figures and to inform me about any other funds. This is my second question concerning the indexation of the Gas and Electricity Fund and the federal contribution. Madam Minister, on December 17, the King signed a royal decree on your initiative. This Royal Decree concerns the blocking of the indexation of the Gas and Electricity Fund for the year 2020. The following day, on 18 December, we unanimously voted on an amendment to unblock the indexation of the Gas and Electricity Fund for 2019 confirming the previous royal decree. This amendment had been co-signed by Mr. De Maegd, member of your party. I am somewhat surprised that you did not mention this point in plenary when I asked you about the Royal Decree for the year 2020. At the end of the hearings, Mr. De Maegd, in a speech that I will call derogatory and inappropriate towards me and my party – I weigh my words – said: "This is a technical problem. The Minister, 1) cannot commit to decisions of a future government; 2) intends to propose a similar amendment to obtain thawing for the year 2020." Minister, I would like more details in this regard. You are part of the executive power and, as such, you have the power to amend the royal decree. Like all parties, including the MR, have co-signed the amendment thawing the indexation of the Gas and Electricity Fund for 2019, do you intend to amend the Royal Decree to unblock the indexation of the Fund for 2020 and the years that will follow or will you take a legislative initiative? On the basis of what elements have you decided to block indexing since you were familiar with the discussions under way in committee? We are still discussing these royal decrees a year later, when is the discussion of Royal Decree 2020 planned?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u85	First of all, I will answer the two speakers on this question. On October 22, 2019 in committee, I indicated that I was bound by the execution of a government agreement that has chosen until its end, which has not yet come, not to index the funds in order not to increase the federal contribution. On December 17, 2019, a royal decree frozen the funds as previously announced. On 19 December, the House did not confirm the freezing of these funds. The situation has therefore changed and it can change. There are now two possibilities to take into account the situation related to the new royal decree: either to propose to the Council of Ministers to amend the royal decree of 17 December 2019, or to propose to it to submit to Parliament the law confirming this decree, which could also be amended. In accordance with Mr. De Maegd said, so I will propose to the government to change things. If the answer is negative, it will be up to Parliament to come back to this question and to make the necessary change, to which, of course, I will not object. In all cases, there is a need for executive intervention, which is why it is desirable, both in this and in all others, to have a full-fledged government that can make decisions for the future. On your other question, Mr. Warmoes, the list is quite long. I apologize, Mr. President, but if I want to be complete, I have to go through this. To date, CREG manages two funds for which no allocation of available resources is currently provided for by legislation or regulation. First, the flat-rate reduction fund for natural gas and electricity heating. The use is decided by DG Energy. In 2009 alone, DG Energy's grant of a flat-rate reduction of €105 on the household energy bill meant that the fund had a total of €10 million. The levies range from 1 January 2009 to 21 January 2012 for electricity, and until 1 April 2012 for natural gas, by the so-called 'heat premium surcharge'. The balance available at 31 December 2019 is €24,434,014, with part for electricity and part for gas. With regard to future use, Article 107 of the Law of 8 January 2012 gives the King the power to determine the modalities for the allocation of the balance of this fund managed by the CREG and deleted by the same Law. I come to the Fund to compensate for the loss of municipal income resulting from the liberalisation of the electricity market. The use of this fund is intended to compensate for the loss of municipal income resulting from the liberalisation of the electricity market. Only the Flemish municipalities benefited because only customers in the Flemish region were liable for the contribution to this fund. The Walloon and Brussels Regions immediately exempted their residents. The levy was made by the "loss of municipal income" contribution and was introduced on 1 May 2004 and ended on 31 December 2011. The Flemish Region also exempted its residents from 1 January 2012, because of the end of this fund. The balance available at 31 December 2019 is €578,000,691. Future use is provided for in the same Article 107 of the Law of 8 January 2012 which gives the King the power to fix the modalities for the allocation of the balance of this fund managed by the CREG deleted by the same Law. Two funds exist following the extension of Tihange 1. They were created under the previous Di Rupo government. No balance is currently available. You also have a 32-51-1 Fund which is a budget fund for flexible electricity generation, the use of which is to ensure that the resources raised by this fund can mitigate the impact on consumers of the measures necessary to maintain and/or develop flexible electricity generation capacity in order to ensure security of supply and balance of the network. It is settled by a royal decree. The sampling period is 10 years. You know this fund, we talked about it earlier. It is paid annually by one third of the State's fee under article 4/1 of the Act of 31 January 2003 on the progressive withdrawal of nuclear energy for the purpose of industrial production of electricity. The operating period covers the period from 1 October to 31 December 2015, each calendar year from 2016 to 2024 and the period from 1 January to 30 September 2025. The 32-51-2 Fund is a wind budget fund in the North Sea. The funds raised through this fund may be used to mitigate the impact on consumers of the measures taken under § 1 to enable the development of wind capacity in the North Sea. The King sets out the modalities for the use of this fund. Duration of sampling: 10 years. Annually powered by two thirds of the royalty paid to the State under article 4/1 of the Act of 31 January 2003. Available balance: zero - like the other. I announced it, I'll explain the details. This is the situation for this famous Tihange Fund 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u86	Madam Secretary, may I also have an answer to my question? My question was short and simple. Is there a Royal Decree implementing the Law of 20 December 2019? I do not think you have answered that. You've answered some questions...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u87	It wasn't in my answer, I'll ask the question. Let's be serious, we're not gonna spend hours on this. You will have the exact answer, I will ask my collaborator the question. I don't have in mind all the precise dates of what exists or doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u88	It's not about the funds. A law was passed here and an implementing decision is needed. Answers are given here to questions from Mr Warmoes. My question isn't difficult, is it? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u89	I don't see what the problem is. I'll ask the question and you'll have the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u90	But then we will not have to ask any more questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u91	That's part of your question, Mrs. Van der Straeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u92	Repeat your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u93	We passed a law here on 20 December. We have said that the balance is paid from the Fund for flat-rate innovations...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u94	If my co-worker had stayed, you would have had the answer right away, but he had to leave, so I'm going to interview him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u95	Article 107 of the 2012 Law states that the King must decide on this. My question was whether there is already a draft royal decree. It's not that hard to answer that question, is it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u96	The Minister says that she must remain guilty of the answer at the moment, because she must receive that reply from her colleague, who has left the Chamber. She promises to give you that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u97	Of course, we'll ask him now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u98	But then I won't have to ask any more questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u99	I don't ask a lot of questions either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u100	Your comprendes, Madame Van der Straeten. But if at some point I have a calibrated answer like that, which does not answer your question... I have the collaborator for other aspects as well, but which answers this kind of thing too; unfortunately it is no longer there. If he was still there, he would have answered you right away. We'll ask him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u101	I agree, but you understand me, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u102	We had a very serious computer bug yesterday. We worked until very late last night. As a result, not all responses could be updated. That's why my co-worker was there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u103	I do have a reply to the rest. Here we have been asked what we are doing with the indexation for 2020. The Minister was right to say that there are two possibilities, to modify the KB or to regulate it in the law of confirmation, as we did last time. As legislators, we can of course also exercise that power. We have tabled a legislative proposal, which is currently being translated, in which we are actually doing the same thing with regard to the confirmation and indexation for 2020, in order to ensure continuity in the texts. Furthermore, we also provide a legal basis for the use of funds and therefore amend Article 107 of the 2012 Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u104	Thank you for your answers, Minister. I have no comment to make. I have the information I wanted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u105	The National Energy and Climate Plan provides that, as an insurance mechanism to achieve the required objective, the flexibility available, in accordance with Article 6 of the European Effort Sharing Regulation, should be notified of the use of flexibility by 31 December 2019. Madam Minister, did Belgium notify the European Commission of its intention to use the limited cancellation of Belgium's EU ETS rights by 31 December 2019 at the latest? What impact does this have on the burden-sharing of Belgium and on the distribution of auction revenues in Belgium itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u106	Mrs van der Straeten, at the meeting of 18 December last of the Consultative Committee, the Permanent Representative of Belgium to the European Union was entrusted with the task of conveying the intention to the European Commission. On 26 December 2019, Belgium notified its intention to use the limited cancellation of allowances under the EU ETS up to a maximum of 1.88 % of Belgian 2005 emissions for each year of the period 2021-2030. The notified maximum use, 1.88 %, of the flexibility was distributed among the regions as follows: Flemish Region 1.18 %, Walloon Region 0.71 % and Brussels Capital Region 0 %. The use of the flexibility mechanism will increase the annual emission allocation of up to 9.270 kilotons of CO2 equivalent for the Flemish Region and 5.612 kilotons of CO2 equivalent for the Walloon Region. Flanders and Wallonia may decide unilaterally to revise that percentage downwards in 2027 and 2028. The auction revenues corresponding to the quantity of EU ETS allowances cancelled for an operating region shall be deducted from the auction revenues of that same region. Furthermore, the key is not a pre-purchase on the allocation of auction revenues for the period 2021-2030, which should be established in a new cooperation agreement. The Brussels and federal entities were able to agree to the use of the flexibility mechanism by Wallonia and Flanders in so far as they do not have a negative impact on their part of the auction revenues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u107	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u108	Mr President, by 1 January 2020 at the latest, each Member State had to draw up a long-term climate strategy with a view of at least 30 years. In fact, that amounts to a 'climate plan 2050'. That long-term strategy should, inter alia, ensure compliance with the commitments under the United Nations Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Paris Agreement, as well as compliance with the objectives of that Paris Agreement. Integrated national energy and climate plans should also be consistent with long-term strategies. In December 2019, you stated in this committee that the long-term strategy relates to objectives, and that the federal government, as it has no territory, cannot set targets. Article 15 of the Climate Governance Regulation provides that the long-term strategies contribute to the Union's commitments, in particular: climate neutrality by 2050. They must also contribute to the achievements of the Paris Agreement. The same Article states that the long-term strategies cover the overall reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, but also the reductions of each sector individually, the expected progress towards a low-carbon economy and the socio-economic impact of that low-carbon economy. Annex 4 of the Regulation lays down the template, together with the reductions, the measures and policies necessary for this purpose. The energy system must also include plans and measures, as for transport and other sectors. The long-term strategy, the so-called climate plan 2050, is therefore nothing but the National Climate and Energy Plan, but in the long term. A Belgian objective will therefore have to be included. An agreement will have to be reached between the four partners. The federal government will therefore also have to set an objective, together with one or more policies to support these objectives. My questions are as follows. Has the long-term strategy been submitted? If not, when will that happen? What's the status of the federal stock? What will be the federal share, both in terms of objectives and measures? Finally, what is the state of play on pathways to a low carbon future? I refer to the study of the Flemish Institute for Technological Research (VITO) and of the study bureau ClimACT. When will the model and the results be published?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u109	Mr President, Mrs Van der Straeten, the Belgian long-term strategy has not yet been submitted to the European Commission. Work is currently underway to do so as quickly as possible, expected in the second half of February, after the dossier has been examined in the Consultation Committee. Because of the federal government, the document Vision and Strategic Workstreams for a Decarbonized Belgium was transferred by 2050 to the Belgian long term strategy to among others the members of the National Climate Commission and the energy consultation between the federal state and the Regions; Enover, you know it. This document presents a vision for the different sectors at national level, discusses options to reduce emissions and identifies priority work streams to shape transition policy over the next few years. These workstreams are the specific areas on which I believe we will have to work closely within Belgium over the next few years, thus forming a kind of work programme for the short and medium term in order to implement the long-term strategy in practice. This federal vision document is based, among other things, on the overall results and insights of the new Belgian 2050 calculator model. In the meantime, the governments of the three Regions have adopted their respective strategies and will be an integral part of the Belgian long-term strategy anyway. With regard to the vision document drawn up by the federal government, I intend to make a concrete statement at the Council of Ministers shortly on how this is best integrated into the Belgian strategy. Since the study on this model is very comprehensive and complex and it is very important to deliver a high-quality end result, the full and detailed results are not yet available, although the work is now in a final phase.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u110	Mr President, Minister, I do not know how to interpret your answer. I assume there will be an effective federal stake in the climate plan 2050, which was a bit double during the discussion last time. However, I am pleased to hear that the calculator of federal administration, which sets out the route paths and options how we can move towards carbon neutrality, after all, that was the approach, will be a working tool, both for us and for the regions. This will enable us to move forward, not only in the current NEEP but also in the long term. I look forward to the further discussions we will have on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u111	Mr President, Minister, the European NGO Transport & Environment has just updated what could constitute a new scandal in the field of emissions from the automotive sector. According to their study "New diesels, new problems" published on Monday, January 13, 2020, the latest diesel vehicles not only produce ultra-fine particles that have not so far been affected by the regulations, but above all would release up to a thousand times more regulated particles than normal at certain emission peaks. At the center of this controversy is the particle filter. This filtration system, used to retain fine carcinogen particles and installed on diesel vehicles for the past 10 years, needs to regenerate every approximately 480 kilometres in order to remain effective. The problem is that at the time of the process, the rate of particles released can reach as much as 1,000 times the normal emission rate, resulting in an exceedance of the current limits. These peaks are simply not taken into account when testing. This problem would affect no less than 45 million cars in Europe, for a total of 1.3 billion regenerations per year in the European Union. In Belgium, almost two million vehicles are involved. Moreover, regeneration can occur at any time, including in the city. Minister, what do you intend to do to protect the health of our citizens from this new problem? With regard to the next Euro standard on pollutant emissions, do you intend to support an increase in these standards in order to fill these gaps and impose limits on all pollutants?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u112	Mr President, Mrs Schlitz, as far as the health of our citizens is concerned, know that at European level I am the preparatory work for the post-Euro 6 regulation which is under way. They have already referred to the integration of particles below the standard of 23 nanometres into the standard requiring the development of a new methodology. The Federal Government will lead discussions on the post-Euro 6 standards for vehicles which are expected to begin in the course of 2021, following the provisional timetable provided by the Commission. With regard to the next Euro standard on pollutant emissions, I support the development of a new as ambitious standard as possible and the integration of other pollutants such as ammonia NH3 and NHCO isocyanic acid, in terms of health risk studies and technical feasibility. I also support the European work on RDE regulation and the development of a life cycle method at European level which aims to better take into account the impact of road transport on health and the environment. As you will have heard earlier in my answer to a question, we have even gone further by demanding the display of NOx emissions on vehicles, which is not required by Europe. At the Belgian level, therefore, we are at the forefront of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u113	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to hear that you intend to take an ambitious position at European level. Measures will also have to be taken for vehicles that have already been sold, especially for consumers who have been fooled by the fact that the emissions in question are not taken into account. This may be the subject of work by the next government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u114	Minister, in 2016, Belgium was the first country importing Australian kangaroo meat. Indeed, our country accounted for 27% of this market, with 632 tonnes of meat, equivalent to 181,000 kangaroos! According to figures from the Australian Bureau of Statistics, the financial amount generated by these imports is around €2.7 million. Of particular concern is the fact that, with the exception of Victoria, where the Kangaroo hunt was temporarily suspended because of the unprecedented fires in the country, the Australian government continues to actively encourage hunting. But no one knows how many kangaroos are left. In places like Kangaroo Island, a true natural sanctuary for these animals, there is already none left. Does the government plan to stop the import of kangaroo meat from Australia, while in total more than one billion animals have already died in the context of this serious environmental crisis caused by the severe fires? Moreover, meat, more than any other food, is expensive for the planet. However, not all meats have an equal cost and some are more resource-intensive than others. This is the case with beef or lamb, the production of which is the most emitting of greenhouse gases, and a fortiori, when these meats come from the other side of the world. What is the carbon balance of this meat imported from Australia into Belgium? Is it still conceivable, at a time when solutions are being sought to save the planet and living beings, to encourage the importation of meat to travel 24 hours by plane – or longer by boat – to the detriment of local agriculture and farmers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u115	Mr President, thank you. The answer will be somewhat live. A portion of the response should be sought from the AFSCA. I just warned, through my collaborator, Mr. Ben Achour. The end of his question concerns the carbon balance. My collaborator who is in stand by and who follows us tells us that the problem is to get it internalised in costs. After that, the economic system must be controlled and indagued. Taking account of the overall CO2 impact of transport seems to be an interesting way to internalize this cost. All this requires special expertise, and human resources. I will ask my administration whether such a track has already been worked out, and what progress has been made in this calculation. It's about evaluating the thing, and it's pretty complex. If we already have results, I'll give them to you. We will refer the matter back to the administration to find out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic087x.u116	Minister, I am pleased that you agree to make the necessary calculations. It is not necessary to calculate the distance between Belgium and Australia to know that it is very far away and that the CO2 balance of imported meat is more important than that of meat produced at home. Beyond that, there are also issues related to animal welfare. Hunting for kangaroo is carried out under brutal and violent conditions. This is an additional argument to consider simply stopping the import of this meat. A campaign was conducted by Gaia at some supermarkets, which stopped importing this meat.
