ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u1	I would like to welcome both ministers and colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u2	Mr President, following a change of agenda, I am required to be present in the Committee on the Interior at this time. Due to a technical problem last week, two of my questions were postponed until today. I would ask that it be taken into consideration that I refer to the written text of these questions, which bear numbers 55006733C and 55006734C. I hope you will agree with this approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u3	Thank you, Mr. Rigot. You will read the answers in the full report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u4	Then I have a number of more topical questions, in particular concerning the GEES reports, which were made public yesterday. This shows, for example, that people are not always happy with the advice given by the RAG and the RMG. That makes it a little confusing to decide who is actually in charge and who decides which advice is most important, especially when conflicting advice is given. Who's cutting the buttons? You as a minister or someone else? A complaint was also lodged with the Commission for access to and re-use of administrative documents, Publicity Department, concerning the GEES, ERMG, RAG and RMG reports. The Commission states that the reasons for keeping the reports secret are flawed. What was the reason not to publish them? Didn't the bodies themselves want that or was that a political decision? The GEES informs us that she was a asking party to make the reports public. Why didn't that happen right away? According to the GEES, Sciensano's data is not sufficiently fine-meshed. Is it possible to obtain a more detailed explanation, possibly in writing or by someone from Sciensano, about how the data are collected and how they are processed? Was Sciensano responsible for collecting the data from the clinical labs from the beginning of the crisis? Or did the national reference lab play a role in this? When will testing the symptomless contacts after contact detection finally start? The GEES are asking for this. Mr De Backer, you have also repeatedly indicated that you are a requesting party. But who sees nothing change in that respect? When can we expect that? Then I have a question regarding the order of the antibody tests. According to the press, 3.6 million have been ordered from the Liège company ZenTech. Mrs De Block, I asked in committee COOVID-19 yesterday if this is correct, but you referred to Minister De Backer. On this question to you, Minister De Backer. Can you confirm this? Which and how many other serological or antibody tests has the government ordered? For what amount were purchased? Can you tell us on the basis of which criteria were chosen for these tests? Mr De Backer, you also said at a previous committee meeting that sometimes the CE labels were tampered with, so that everything had to be re-tested. How is it that certain large firms, such as Roche, have not yet passed the test procedure? Finally, a question about the outbreak in my province, Limburg. A quarter of the new infections would be there. What advice does the GEES give on this matter? Are these data monitored at federal level? When do they expect action to be taken? The GEES talks about an area-covering control tower that can spot local fireplaces. Has this already been put into practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u5	Then I have a few more questions. Firstly, how is it that the GEES reports have been drawn up in English and not in official national languages? Secondly, I have a question about the event in Brussels. Health risks are supported by all scientists. How high do your services estimate the risks? When screening and testing patients, will you check whether or not they were present at these events so that we can get a clear picture of the health risks that have been taken there and of their consequences? Thirdly, the report of 13 May shows that 50% of new infections are care-related. What's the status today? Is it still the case that it concerns mainly people who have been in contact with hospitals or institutions? There is now also an extension of visitor measures. Will additional measures be taken there? Fourthly, the same report recommends a macro-plan for mental health. How far along are you with that? Have you taken steps? Do you see this effectively in macroterms? Fifthly, in the report of 24 April, the GEES recommends that a major organizational plan be drawn up for the hospitals in the context of a second wave, in order to avoid it. What's the plan like? Did you take steps in that respect? Have you provided any financial resources? Moreover, it is also said that what has already been said in committee, namely that the protection of the care providers was not sufficient, that there was therefore not enough pbm. How will you anticipate that at the second wave? Sixthly, a follow-up of both physical and mental consequences for care providers is also recommended. What does your plan look like about that? Seventh, the report of 3 June recommends consultation with the various stakeholders. Has this consultation already taken place? Or is it foreseen? Who will be invited to that? One of its recommendations is to make clear agreements on which entity will prepare a second wave, who will take the lead there. How do you see that? Do you think that further regionalisation of health would be appropriate there? Finally, I would like to discuss the poverty figures. We are seeing an increase in poverty rates: some groups have experienced the COOVID-19 crisis in a different way. Madam Minister, do you see Community differences in the postponement of care as a result of the rise in poverty?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u6	Mrs Van Camp, you have one minute to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u7	Mr President, that will be a challenge, because I would like to address three issues. Since I discuss the same subjects every week, I can be brief. Madam Minister, first of all, you have provided for a COOVID-19 bonus for home nurses, and with retroactive effect. We cannot stress enough how much that is appreciated on the ground. Until when does that bonus last? In the meantime, are you also working on structural improvements to the nomenclature? The current additional remuneration under the COVID-19 pandemic is, of course, very welcome, but the remuneration for home care is very low beyond that. For example, only EUR 5 is granted for an injection, which currently does not cover the material costs, and in a normal period of time it does not. I will leave aside the time for the relocation, the administration and the mandatory reading of the e-ID. After the COVID-19 crisis, how will you structurally improve the remuneration for home care? My second question concerns the care staff in the institutions. At the last meeting, you said that the talks on the bonus had resumed, but that the trade unions were rather slow. You also planned consultation with the Länder, so that the bonus for the care staff applies to the staff in all the institutions, not only in hospitals, but also in residential care centres, and that is a good thing. Madam Secretary, how have these talks progressed? How will you ensure that more money does indeed lead to more hands on the bed? Will you enter and work more locks via the BFM or by adjusting the standard for the bestaffing? Finally, in relation to the hospitals, you spoke at the previous meeting about EUR 1 billion in advances. Madam Secretary, will the next disc be allocated with the same key? How much resources are being allocated and when?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u8	Mr De Backer, the masks ordered through the Defense Department have apparently all arrived and will be distributed through the pharmacists. How exactly did this arrangement come about? Are the pharmacists all okay with that? Madam Secretary De Block, I have three questions for you. First of all, last weekend, the WHO changed the gun from the shoulder. She now advises to wear a mouth mask as often as possible. I do not know what that is like in other regions, but I see very few people wearing a mouth mask in Limburg, unless on public transport, where it is mandatory. Madam Minister, will you follow the WHO line and advise something more stringent to wear the mouth masks? I do not see that happening in the shops at all. I'm even the big exception when I'm wearing one. Secondly, last week we heard alarming figures from the Netherlands about cancer diagnosis. Over the next five to ten years, more than 500 women will die of breast cancer. These figures can be traced back to Belgium. The figures would only be available to us at the beginning of July, but shouldn't we be working on this? The Director of the Centre for Cancer Investigation says that it is especially important that we offer safe and quality research. That's what gets him on a quick catch-up. What do you think, Madam Secretary? Can't we be quick and good if the numbers for breast cancer alone are so dramatic? What about the large screening for colon cancer? Can we also speed up the catching-up process in this area and offer quality research at the same time? My final question is about the dietists. Before that I also looked at the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, it is urged that a dietician visit the recovering patient within two days of being discharged from the hospital. After all, it has been calculated that it is cheaper to pay back some of the dietician's consultations with good nutritional advice, together with a few kinnings, because this is also internationally proven kinnings together with custom dietary advice lead to a faster recovery. What do you think of that, Madam Secretary? Is it also possible to pay back two consultations with a first-line dietician after the hospitalization?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u9	Mrs De Block, I have a question about the postponement of care. On April 27, I asked you about the government's strategy for guiding the resumption of consultations. On 6 May, the UCL launched a study on the postponement and cancellation of care due to VOCID-19. Today the results are quite challenging. One in two people gave up care at the dentist, the general practitioner or the kine. Nine out of ten people gave up a medical examination. But the most worrying thing is that, now that we're in trouble, there's only 34.8% of respondents who say they want to see a doctor in the event of a health problem and one in two (48%) would see a doctor only if the health problem is severe. A whole series of chronic patients have not been taken care of and their pathologies are getting worse. This situation is likely to continue for another 18 months. Minister, what support do you intend to put in place both to restore confidence and to limit the time taken to take care of you? Mr De Backer, I have three questions. The first concerns the number of tests performed. Since April 30, this number has been gradually decreasing, while at the same time the testing criteria have been relaxed. Similarly, in the past few days, the percentage of confirmed cases in nursing homes does not exceed 60-80%, while communities had to be systematically tested. This situation does not facilitate the analysis of the evolution of the epidemic or the effectiveness of the strategy put in place by the government. Minister, what is your analysis of the factors that can explain these trends? What actions does the government intend to take to move towards optimized procedures? Minister, second question. Can you tell us the first performance indicators for testing and tracing now that agents, platforms and procedures are operational? What is the percentage of patients contacted who have agreed to deliver contacts? How many contacts are on average given by these patients? What percentages of these contacts are contacted and tested where appropriate? What health analysis can you give us of these results? Finally, I come back to a question that I did not get an answer to last week. You said a few weeks ago you ordered 3,650,000 masks from Zentech. The order was not made. Can you explain the reasons for this blockage?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u10	I have introduced a first question to the minister, concerning the resumption of consultations with midwives in the face-to-face. In committee, on May 19, I asked the minister about the matter. She replied that on the basis of the recommendations, guidelines for restarting activities in a private firm were proposed and posted on the site. However, when you look at the site in question, there is nothing in the box opposite the midwifery category. I have a problem with that. It persists a blur, which is really problematic for the profession. To date, midwives cannot resume face-to-face sessions without conditions. They must always justify some form of urgency. Could you confirm to me that this is the situation that continues to prevail? If this is not the case, then we have to reprosecrate things to the sector. Problems and misunderstandings persist on what is permitted or not. As for my second question, I have already asked you about the subject as well. It deals with the deconfining of maternity homes. I asked you about some of the protocols that remained in force while many other areas had been disbanded. I also offered to send a request to the Risk Assessment Group on this matter. Minister, have you been able to forward this request? Could you consider sending a letter to hospitals inviting them to lift these protocols, such as wearing the mask during delivery? This seems to me to be very problematic, in comparison with other sectors which have been completely disbanded, especially since yesterday. My last question concerns the presence of co-parents in prenatal pregnancy follow-up consultations. So far co-fathers or co-mothers could not attend pregnancy follow-up. Yet, it is really important in the involvement in the child's life for the future. Are there still scientific justifications for maintaining this measure? When will it be lifted?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u11	Mr President, with regard to my question No 55006746C, I refer to the written text. The idea is that at this time of pandemic, more attention should be paid to those who are said to be at risk. These will remain confined as long as possible. Among these vulnerable people, there are patients who suffer from cystic fibrosis. I am asked whether they would not be better protected by the Trikafta, which has been the subject of a compassionate authorization.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u12	I come to my question about the financial stability of hospitals. We will inevitably have to review the method of evaluating budgets in the light of the crisis. The 2022 hospital budget should not be calculated on the basis of this year's figures. This would make no sense, as the figures were totally impacted by the VOCID-19. How is the change in the calculation of hospital budgets envisaged? You have announced an additional €500 million advance for hospitals, will it be distributed on the same basis as the first advance? Psychiatric hospitals will be affected this time, how high? Do you now believe that these two advances will be sufficient to cover the losses and additional costs associated with the crisis? The financial impact of the crisis on hospitals and on the remuneration of doctors involved in crisis management is being assessed – as you said – in INAMI by working groups. On the basis of this work, a regularisation mechanism is foreseen on the basis of acceptable real financial impacts. What's the status of the work? Can you make the point? When will hospitals have specific indications in this context? Above all, can you assure us today that the financial impact of the health crisis will be amortised for each hospital individually on the basis of the objectified data included in the 2020 annual accounts? My next question concerns the use of UVC lamps that are now used in the disinfection of air, water or surfaces. They are used in hospitals but also in other areas. It is our responsibility that a ministerial decree is in preparation. It would appear that UVC disinfection can be used in a strategy complementary to other disinfection techniques, provided that its use is marked and surrounded by validated safety processes. Do you confirm that the order is in preparation? Is it envisaged to limit their use to the hospital environment, given that this disinfection technique could be used in other places in a suitable way, such as theatres, gyms, cinemas, supermarkets, stations or metros? If so, on what elements do you base your position? What studies have been carried out in this framework and what are the results? Why consider a distinction between hospital and other settings? What is the legal framework today for regulating the use of these products that can be dangerous if they are misused? Has the sector concerned been consulted in this context? Finally, my next question to Mr. De Backer, it's about saliva tests. A simple saliva test could reveal whether or not a person is carrying coronavirus. Two researchers from Yale University detected the presence of the virus in saliva not only asymptomatic subjects, but in whom the usual screening test had not detected the disease. This would allow all symptomatic cases and their entourage to be systematically tested in record time during this period of debunking. It is also learned that it can be done by the patient himself and gives visible results to the naked eye in 30 minutes. Minister, we need to make the system more agile, because contacts are difficult to avoid in many areas where it is essential to test easily and simply – sport, prison, etc. – but also among the healthcare staff. A study commissioned by the Task Force is currently being conducted by several universities. When will the results be known? How is this mission going? Will the Defence indeed lend a helping hand to the sorting centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u13	This issue of importance is unfortunately part of the collateral damage of the health crisis. Madam and Mr Ministers, I would also have liked to hear from you about the latest opinion of the Expert Group on Deconfinement (GEES), which expressed its concern about our country's unpreparedness in the face of a possible rebound in the epidemic. Do you think we're ready? If so, on what objective elements do you rely on? Finally, I had also tabled a question to the Minister of Defence concerning the famous tissue masks intended for the population, which are arriving for distribution in pharmacies. I wanted to draw your attention to a press release that was sent yesterday by Creamoda and Febelsafe (Belgian Textile Maintenance Federation). These two actors are unhappy – and rightly so – because their press release tells us that the masks provided by the state cannot be washed at more than 30° and by hand – in direct contradiction to the recommendations and technical requirements of the government. Indeed, it recommends the washing of fabric masks at a minimum 60°. This remark was relayed by maakjemondmasker.be. These masks, which we have waited for weeks and months, will soon arrive in pharmacy. However, they do not meet the technical requirements. I would therefore like to hear from you, Madam and Mr. Ministers, on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u14	Madam Secretary, researchers from the Department of Laboratory Medicine of AZ Delta in Roeselare claim that there would be a correlation between low vitamin D levels and severe COVID-19. They studied 186 patients with severe COVID-19 and compared them with a large prepandemic control population with comparable age distribution and vitamin D values, measured in the same season. They came to the conclusion that the more serious the vitamin D deficiency was, the higher the risk of advanced stages of pulmonary impairment. In a previous question last week, I called for natural products and vitamin supplements to be included in the list of potentially active substances against COOVID-19. Of course, this must be accompanied by sound research and quality control. One of the possibilities for easy access to data is to offer doctors who use such products the possibility of losing their findings and results anonymously somewhere. I have a few questions about that. Do you intend to set up such a point so that doctors can share their results without risking losing their jobs? Are you aware of this study on the correlation between vitamin D and severe COVID-19? Does the government support clinical studies on natural products and/or vitamin supplements? Why is that? Why is that? Will you and your Flemish colleague launch a awareness campaign to focus on the importance of a strong immune system in the fight against COVID-19 and other diseases? My next question concerns Prince Joachim. After all, we heard from the press that he had been illegally to an adorable lockdown party of the nobility in Cordoba, Spain. That's where he would've gotten infected with the corona virus. Now we have been told by you and your TV virologist that at least one week of incubation is to be reckoned with before people know if they are infected with the virus or have symptoms. Any word on where the prince got the virus? Is the prince being sanctioned for violating the corona measures? What sanction is attached to that? In the meantime, have there been any contagions in the royal family? At that time, it was forbidden for ordinary mortals to go abroad, unless that was really necessary. In that case, they had to fill out a form allowing them to cross the border. This form had to be completed and delivered to the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation. What statute does Prince Joachim fall under? The form refers to Belgian workers who have to make a necessary transfer abroad. According to my information, the prince lives and works in South Africa. If he has completed such a document, will it be made public? If he has not filled in a document, or filled it out wrongly, or filled in a wrong document, what are the penalties? Will further research be carried out on this illegal practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u15	Madam Minister, for the introduction of my question I refer to the written impact of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u16	Minister, Minister, we are beginning to find a semblance of normality. However, experts point out that the coronavirus is far from extinct. It is imperative to continue to act as a barrier and to ensure that gatherings remain rare and respect these preventive measures. Here are some of my questions. I refer the others to the written text and hope to receive the written answers as you have already done. Can you give us an update on the situation of clinical trials underway in our country? That deserves some clarification. Given the contradictions in the media, it is important to be able to fully inform. With regard to hydrochloroquine, WHO and the European Union have suspended its use, particularly in the Discovery programme. Since then, it appears that WHO and Discovery would eventually resume trials on patients. Can you clarify the current recommendations of Sciensano at this level? Do you have any new information, particularly from the University of Leuven, which is studying the effect of the molecule and what about the other current treatment routes? Secondly, with regard to business testing, what are the current authorizations and what is the status of the authorizations and guidelines for physicians in this regard? Since the submission of my question, employers' federations have reacted publicly to the blur that still seems to be being experienced on the ground. Tracing cells would transmit divergent messages while results are provided only five days after the test. It is obviously very difficult to manage within companies. I was able to read that the representatives of the companies, in particular the Walloon Union, have written to you and your regional colleagues on this subject. Can you tell us what may have been sent to them as necessary and additional information? What are the contamination figures recorded by trace contacts in the regions? What is the finding made so far by the co-ordination testing and tracing? Are adjustments needed? Thirdly, with regard to the gradual resumption of consultations in private practice and in hospital, could you tell me what monitoring is in place and provide us with an overview of the situation for hospitals and private offices? One can actually hear intriguing testimonies, such as those of dentists who can only receive a few patients in a day given the disinfection measures to be carried out between each appointment. In terms of reception capacity and waiting level for consultations or care, how is this managed? Is an evaluation of safety and protection measures in the context of de-confinition addressed structurally to extra-mural professionals? Fourthly, regarding the fifteen million masks that will be distributed in pharmacies, what procedure is in place and communicated to pharmacists with a view to making this distribution? Is it practically possible to respect it for pharmacists? Fifthly, regarding pandemic resurgence scenarios, which is a risk after this summer, according to some, what measures are already decided upon and ready? I interviewed the Minister of the Interior more than ten days ago. He stated that a complete mandatory reconfinition would no longer take place. I asked him for clarification of the provisions of the potential reconfinition plans, and he asked me to ask you. This is all the more so since, in the light of new information about a rebound in the epidemic, a series of GEES recommendations would still not have been implemented. Experts were reported to have raised concerns about the preparedness and prevention of a new epidemic peak. These measures would not yet be put in place. It is obviously not possible to see our healthcare staff again placed in the front line without the proper conditions. Can you tell us precisely about this preparation? Regarding the situation of the hospital deficit, you have announced a new billion euros for our hospital centres. However, some professionals estimate the urgent needs of our hospitals at more than €5 billion, given the proportion of their funding linked to medical activities. These medical procedures were completely stopped when they were not urgent, while hospitals had to bear significant additional costs associated with the care of patients with VOCID-19. Can you tell us the nature of the amounts released, that is to say, those two billion to date? What is planned in the next few months?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u17	Mr President, I shall devote myself to the question to Mr. Backer on the use of serological tests. We know that testing strategy is a key success factor. Serological tests used to detect the presence of antibodies against the virus are important. However, although the serology method has a good specificity and a sensitivity response of 70-90%, serology interpretation remains complex. It is indeed necessary to wait 14 days after the first symptoms of VOCID-19 have occurred to ensure that a serology is sufficiently reliable. Moreover, it is still unclear what type of antibodies actually confer immunity for how long or for what reason. Minister, what strategy do we follow with regard to the type of test? Will we now introduce serological tests on a large scale, even if it takes longer for these tests to produce a reliable result? What about the reimbursement of those serological tests? For my questions to Minister De Block, I refer to the text submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u18	The CD&V Group did not put any questions. Mrs Farih took part in the meeting earlier. It can always ask for the floor if it so wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u19	Mr President, Madam Minister, my question No. 55006879C is about the Belgian money invested in CEPI. My question No. 55006869C concerns the second advance of EUR 1 billion given to hospitals. Several colleagues have already asked questions about this. Of course, he is also interested in knowing how much money is involved and how that extra money is distributed among hospitals. I think everyone's waiting for that information. For these two questions, I refer to the text tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u20	Mr De Backer, we now have the GEES reports, which were finally released. Those reports show that the opinion of the GEES is not always followed in relation to the testing strategy. If there is no agreement between the various bodies, who will make the effective decisions? In addition, Mr Emmanuel André announced a few days ago that he would resign as responsible for tracing and testing. What comment do you have on that? The extension of the testing strategy is still the subject of much discussion. It is still not possible to test, even though the doctor thinks that a test may be needed in asymptomatic patients, for example. The test criteria in force would be extended again. Yesterday I read a press release by Domus Medica, the Flemish family doctor's association, entitled "New testing strategy: chaos and waste of money." The family doctor's association believes that with two tests and one serological test there is actually too much testing. They are in favour of performing one PCR test in all index patients and all high-risk contacts. So they don't necessarily want to run the three tests on each person. They believe that you have extended the testing in that way to increase the statistics. On the other hand, we heard the following this morning. On the other hand, this morning, on the air of La Première, we heard an interview with a representative of the nursing homes who, on the other hand, denounces the fact that, for every newcomer, whether they are returning staff after a leave or students who come to work regularly in nursing homes, there is no testing strategy. Rest homes do not know how to test this new staff or return staff after a coordinated absence. As a result, nursing homes are beginning to buy tests and follow their own testing strategy with the risk of creating chaos a little and, who knows, also with the risk of a rebound of the epidemic within nursing homes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u21	Madam Secretary, I had tabled two questions, both for you. One question concerns the duration of the quarantine, namely question No. 55006767C. My second question concerns the vaccine against seasonal flu. That's question No. 55006768C. First of all, anyone diagnosed as infected is initially quarantined at home. Until now, a minimum period of two weeks of quarantine had to apply. Now it is being considered to shorten that deadline. It is, of course, important that this is clarified in the light of the further roll-out of the exit strategy and in order to avoid a new peak. Madam Minister, is there any scientific evidence to suggest that the duration of the 14-day quarantine could be effectively shortened? How long will the quarantine take from now on? When would that be clearer? The second part of my speech deals with the vaccine for the common flu, which was also the subject of questions last week. In its opinion on the vaccinations against the seasonal flu, the High Health Council reviewed this in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, the Council adheres to its earlier recommendations, focusing on persons at risk of complications, i.e. specifically pregnant women, chronically ill and persons over 65 years of age. But he also considers it useful to vaccinate all individuals between 50 and 65 years of age this year. According to him, this could reduce the number of hospital beds occupied, which would be important, as the seasonal flu could coincide with a second peak of COVID-19. In particular, the Council calls on staff in the health sector to be vaccinated, not only in the interests of their own health, but also in order to ensure that it remains as available as possible in the event of a second peak. Madam Minister, is the Community being consulted on a common policy on flu vaccination, given the danger that the peak of seasonal flu may coincide with a possible second COOVID-19 peak? Traditionally, general practitioners make great efforts to vaccinate elderly people at home and at risk against the flu. In view of the situation, will they receive additional guidance, especially as regards their patients aged between 50 and 65 years?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u22	Madam Minister, Minister, I refer to my questions. 55006743C, 55006883C, 55006865C and 55005960C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u23	Finally, I have a question about a topic hot from the needle. In its report, GEES recommends that a control tower should be established with a view to a system of fine-meshed monitoring of the evolution of the virus, in order to be able to intervene in the event of small outbreaks in order to prevent a larger outbreak. How's that going?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u24	Madam Minister, I have a question about a particular target group for the exit strategy, namely the chronically ill. They too must get back to work. Are they allowed to go back to work? What are they at risk for? What are the risks for the partners and children of those chronically ill? They do not yet have a clear answer to many of their questions. Is there already an exit plan or strategy on information exchange between all the relevant bodies as an advisory physician, general practitioner, working environment, prevention doctor, schools? Will there also be directives on the exit strategy for chronically ill people, who absolutely need to take account of their specific situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u25	Mr President, I will be brief. Minister, I have different questions. First of all, on hospitals, a subject on which I come back regularly. A further EUR 1 billion advance was paid to hospitals. Why is it again an advance, and therefore recoverable, while this system aggravates the uncertainty and management difficulties of hospitals affected by the crisis of the VOCID-19 (funding collapsed and additional costs). When will clear guarantees be provided to them? What is the precise timing of the ongoing working groups? Will the budget be well allocated to cover all the needs and to enable the financial balance of hospitals? One in two patients have delayed the necessary care and continue to do so because of the VOCID-19. Colleagues have already cited the study of KUL and UCL. The consequences can be serious. This is the case in strokes, infarctions, but also cancer screenings. I propose a communication campaign and work in partnership with general practitioners, home nurses, pharmacists and hospitals to maximize the number of patients returning to hospital. Mr De Backer, I have a few questions about testing and tracing. First, the fact that the test is still not possible for asymptomatic patients. According to various statements from both Erika Vlieghe, Marc Van Ranst and Emmanuel André, testing/tracing is not effective. We are therefore not strong enough to prepare for a rebound and avoid it. What about it? What is the number of patients actually contacted in this context? How many patients are actually isolated? Will the directives evolve? Finally, I must deplore the fact that the federal authorities have issued N95 masks to dentists, while milling poses a major risk to aerosols and thus to the contamination of VOCID-19. Why do dentists not have access to KN95 masks or FFP2 masks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u26	Mr President, I will have two questions about mortality in nursing homes. The figures have finally been published on this subject, but they are apparently approximations given the way they are notified in Flanders. I would have liked to have precise figures on the total deaths of residents in nursing homes, which was catastrophic. How long have these figures been known? Why have they only been published in recent days? And, above all, why such a disaster? Do you confirm, Madam Minister, that residents in nursing homes have been refused by hospitals? Do you also confirm that recommendations have been made to some nursing homes so that they do not transfer their sick residents to the hospital?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u27	Do you not consider that the recommendations for wearing the mask in the secondary level should be clarified, knowing that the resumption of courses is scheduled for June 8th? Many teachers regret that there is a lack of consistency in that adolescents over the age of 12 must now wear the mask in public transport, but not in school.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u28	What proportion of hospitals are equipped with this technology and why?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u29	Therefore, can the Minister inform me: a. if she has read this opinion? b. if it shares the position, in my view, very legitimate and fair, of the CSS and what are the accompanying measures in this respect?" I have to go back to the reconfinition plan more precisely, because this is the third time, Madam Minister, that I ask you this question and I hope to get an answer, given the concern expressed by the GEES over the past few days. Indeed, these experts believe that we would not be prepared for the possibility of a rebound in the epidemic and regret that several recommendations could not be implemented. They highlight in particular the slowness of the testing process, the lack of mobilized teams and budget, the absence of an action plan defining the levels of responsibility, but also and above all the exhaustion of the health care staff. For this latter reason, they recommend the organization of a consultation with the same staff. Minister, what answer do you give them? How soon will you be able to answer them? I would also like to ask you about a study endorsed by Imperial College in London, according to which Belgium has the highest infection rate among the eleven European countries examined. In this respect, Belgium is said to be the worst student in the class, with 8% of the population contracting coronavirus, while the rate in Germany is 0.85%. We already knew that the death rate was unfortunately at the top of the world ranking, but it was because we had the intellectual honesty to account for deaths in nursing homes, even though they are not always formally attributed to the coronavirus. How can you explain the height of this rate? I also wanted to address two questions to Mr. Backer. The first concerns masks provided by the federal government. The famous 18 million fabric masks have finally arrived. They will be available from June 15th in pharmacies. Of course, we are happy about that. Except that the problem is that these masks are already criticized for their quality, but also as regards their washing instructions and the fact that they should not be ironed when we see clearly, on the official site of information on the coronavirus, that the masks must be washed at 60°C and that they must, failing that, be ironed. So there is really a problem with the instructions to the population. How do you respond to that? Are these masks still reliable? Have they been tested? Why should they be washed differently from other fabric masks? Minister, what about the famous filters that were to be delivered to the citizens, according to the announcements at the beginning of May, and which were intended for artisanal masks, the masks that the citizens had to buy themselves. I'll finish with the tracing. You're not without knowing that...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u30	Very briefly, Mrs Rohonyi, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u31	... Google and Apple have launched the deployment of an exposure notification feature to VOCID-19, which obviously raises questions, because we still do not have a legal basis for the implementation of a mobile application. Minister, how is this new feature, introduced by Google and Apple, privacy-friendly? I have a lot of apprehensions about this and I had to relay the concerns of the citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u32	I think everyone had the opportunity to ask his questions. I will give the floor to the ministers. I thought I'd give everyone half an hour, I hope that's all right. Mrs. De Block said she didn't. Maybe Mr. Can De Backer take a little less time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u33	I'm sorry, but there are a lot of questions on important issues. I can't explain all this in half an hour. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u34	I'm gonna try to free up some more time for Mrs. De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u35	All right, we'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u36	Mr President, a number of questions deal with the testing strategy. I explained last week that the testing strategy should be extended. An agreement was reached on this at the Inter-Ministerial Conference two weeks ago. This was discussed again in the Consultative Committee. The strategy was confirmed at last week's Inter-Ministerial Conference and is now being rolled out by the people of the Inter-Federal Committee to ensure that all elements of the new testing strategy are covered in the field, effectively testing all asymptomatic contacts of an infected person. If the first test turns out to be negative, a second test will be performed afterwards to ensure that the person who can be quarantined is no longer a carrier of the virus. At the same time, a serological test is being carried out to ensure that, as the opinion of the High Health Council in France also stated, it is possible to check whether this person has not already been infected in the past. This new test strategy was agreed between the various ministers and is now being taken to the site. That is not an obvious exercise because the logistics behind it must also follow. I hope that this strategy can be effectively launched in the coming days. In terms of tests, we do 10,000 to 12,000 tests a day to identify just under 100 cases. That is less than 0.1%, and that is not insignificant, because we already have a very broad testing strategy today compared to abroad. The GEES reports also discuss in greater depth the avoidance of a second flare-up. Protocols should be rolled out to ensure that in collections such as retirement homes, schools, apartments, businesses are clearly aware of what needs to be done in identifying a positive case, not only in further testing, but also in measures such as coaching in retirement homes, closing classes or schools, or letting children go home. All this must be laid down in protocols by the regional authorities, Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia, because this is within their remit. I have also noticed that some of these protocols already exist. Since I took note of the GEES report, I have called for the various inter-ministerial conferences to be shared and partly unified. This has been discussed several times by the RMG in recent weeks. In the case definition of Sciensano, for example, the testing of new residents in retirement homes is already allowed today, so it is also important that the agencies at regional level give clear instructions to do so in the residential care centres. The coordination doctors can then contact a clinical lab before a patient is admitted to a residential care centre. Another aspect of this strategy is that we look at what needs to be done when borders are opened. The RMG has already been consulted on this last week, asking what the elements that should be taken into account when someone arrives in our country are. They are mainly people who come from outside the Schengen area, because internal borders are of course open and there will probably be no restrictions on that. There is, of course, a debate on the external borders and therefore an opinion has been asked for from the RMG to look at what needs to be done and what protocol should be followed. We note that the virus is circulating less today and that fewer patients are offering with respiratory symptoms. As a result, the number of tests carried out does not increase, but it remains stable. We still test very widely: we test about 10,000 to 12,000 people a day, of whom 100 to 150 people are tested positively. The follow-up must of course be contact tracing. People who have been in contact with a person who still have a positive test should also be followed. They are being quarantined today for 14 days since last contact. However, the intention is to test these people and if that test is negative, the people concerned can come out of quarantine faster, because then we are sure that they will not be infected effectively. Today, the classic circuit of clinical labs is used for the tests in the first instance. You can also see this in Sciensano's statistics. The vast majority of tests are carried out by the clinical labs and some are still carried out on the federal platform. You know the reason: at the height of the crisis, of course, we had to increase the test capacity very quickly, which was also successful and made it possible to do a lot of tests. In this respect, there is now a discussion with the clinical labs and with a number of competent agencies to see how we have this capacity... I also said last week that it is important that we can keep that capacity in Belgium, but that it can be anchored in different ways. This can be done by engaging with the capacity of existing clinical labs, for which they have made investments, and by ensuring that the rupture we have experienced with regard to the provision of certain reagents, erasers or other elements necessary to carry out the tests is avoided. This also includes the fact that during this crisis we tried to be innovative, as with the 3D-printed wipers produced in Belgium. We're also looking at new technologies. I refer to the saliva tests. Together with Sciensano, we have been working on clinical trials and comparison points between a classic swab and a saliva test since the publication. I hope we can get a result of that as soon as possible. After all, we quickly made the analysis. If the saliva tests proved to be effective in the same way that the virus was present, the logistics chain behind it would, of course, be greatly simplified. Then people can be tested in a different way. That study's still going on. We are also looking at how we can further roll out and anchor the test capacity. At the beginning of the crisis, we had to establish a stockrupture. That's why we asked the labs and the suppliers of the labs how we could handle that. The answer was then that a central platform had to be established. Of course, this exercise continues in the discussion with the clinical labs to see how we can avoid such a rupture in the future. There is also continuous consultation. Sciensano, in cooperation with the Committee on Clinical Biology, has prepared a questionnaire to see how we can respond to certain issues. Each week it is discussed to see how follow-up can be given. Those discussions are therefore ongoing. A question has also been asked about the validation process of a number of tests. I can give you a comprehensive answer to that, but given the time span, I suggest that I give you the validation process in writing and the context of how it all happened, with the university centres involved, with the FAGG and the reference lab. Then I can also give you more technical details about the validation of the antigen testing, as well as everything related to the validation of the serological immunotests carried out. The FAGG has drawn up a validation scheme for this purpose. I can also give you some more information about that visually. It is clear that the serological test has been the subject of much discussion. We have seen, among other things, that many tests bear CE marking, but this marking concerns only the reliability of production and not that of testing. For this reason, we created this validation procedure within the AFMPS, in order to be sure that the tests on the market were reliable. We did this validation very early and started buying serological tests. For example, for the Zentech test we're talking about today, the contract was signed a few weeks ago and the order was placed. In the new testing strategy in the context of contact tracing, I think it is important to use serological tests because these tests are fast and allow you to get in a few minutes a result on your immunity. It is information that is, on the one hand, interesting to the patient and, on the other hand, interesting from an epidemiological point of view. Someone referred to the 8% infection rate. We discovered this because we started early on to conduct studies based on serological tests to detect the number of infected people who have developed antibodies in our population. These studies are repeated every two to three weeks. This gives us other elements as well as data to ensure others follow-up of people who have been in contact with the virus during this pandemic. For serological tests, we also placed orders from other companies that passed the validation test. But you also know that there is still a debate about these serological tests, the duration of immunity, the types of antibodies that are truly representative of the development of immunity – not only in the short but also in the long term. For us, it is very important to use these serological tests to get a view and to see if we need to do a fine tuning of our test strategy. In this context, I believe that serological testing can still play an important role. The criteria for applying this serological test are as follows. All general practitioners are free to prescribe and use this test – which is reimbursed for health care personnel. All criteria can be found on the Sciensano website. The patient can also, if he really wants to know if he has been in contact with the virus, ask for this test and pay it out of his pocket, with a maximum price of 9,60 euros. As part of the tracing contact, tests will be carried out by screening centres and general practitioners who are in contact with patients and who follow up. On this occasion, rapid tests can also play a role in avoiding wasting time in the physician. It also responds to discussions about serological tests. Everyone knows that after being infected, it takes some time to develop antibodies. Moreover, not everyone develops antibodies to the same extent. Studies in this area should therefore be continued in order to identify the most reliable tests, while following up on the recommendations of the World Health Organization. That is why we decided that these tests should be carried out in the presence of a doctor, who can explain their results, rather than giving each one the opportunity to test himself. In these circumstances, the interpretation of the result is difficult. I think I have answered the questions about serological tests. I would also like to add that companies can also have serological tests carried out, but in this case they must bear the costs involved. On the other hand, they cannot have PCR tests carried out because a targeted strategy is needed in this area. These latest tests are, moreover, being expanded. Indeed, as I said, we need not only a strategy in terms of contact tracing, but also for all places where many people are likely to be gathered, such as businesses, schools, rest homes. While the Regions have already made efforts, they must now fine-tuning all the protocols, not only for testing, but also for quarantine and action in some cases. I've already talked about the saliva test, which is being launched. For drugs and clinical trials, the AFMPS website includes all ongoing clinical trials. There are different clinical trials: conventional clinical trials, but also clinical trials conducted under VOCID-19. For example, some studies are under way on hydroxychloroquine. All these studies are included on the AFMPS website. The availability of protective material was requested in the event of a second peak. I can tell you that our orders are in order. The RMG also expressed its views on this last week. The federal stock and the orders delivered and still to be delivered are sufficient to absorb a second peak. This is an important signal, because we can continue to distribute material in the coming weeks, including to the first line health providers, where a first decentralised stock can be built, which can be used in the event of a second wave, and we can therefore start building a new strategic stock in the coming weeks. The regional authorities of Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia have also been asked for transparency, so that all entities together can deliver all parts of the health system in the event of a second wave. They have also been urged to make clear agreements on who is doing what and in what way and to communicate very clearly. Then, as soon as a second wave breaks out, hopefully that will not happen immediately push the start button to start further distribution if necessary. I repeat that we are already in the process of a large distribution of several tens of millions of masks and other materials over the next few weeks, in order to create a buffer capacity for the first line. The control tower function must also be built up. On the one hand, Niel Hens and Marius Gilbert van de GEES have already started to develop a number of models based on a lot of collected information. The models are also constantly fine tuned. We have now also been asked to look at local and regional levels in order to identify local outbreaks more quickly, apart from the need to create the collectivity protocols and to take a step forward in the contact tracing process. To this end, a cooperation agreement has now been concluded, which is now being implemented at regional level. It is important to follow that up in the next few days. Contact tracing is a regional competence. The Council of State has made this very clear once again, which is why the contact tracing app is the same. The Interfederal Committee, supported by the federal government through the eHealth platform and the Sciensano database, has largely eliminated childhood diseases in recent weeks. About 10,000 index cases and about 5,000 contact tracings have been followed. The beginning of the process was very difficult, because people were very reluctant to share contacts. It was also not always easy to get hold of the contacts. Only two thirds of them passed on contacts. Most of the time it was about one or two people. About 70% of these people could be reached. Depending on the risk, a test was proposed to some of these people. That process has been fine tuned over the past few weeks. Things are starting to work out. The regions are also investing in a communication campaign to increase confidence in the system. At the moment there is also a discussion about a cooperation agreement on contact tracing. The Council of State indicated that this was the only way to find a good solution. The ball is now very clearly in the camp of the regional authorities. The federal government is looking at how we can provide support, for example in the field of scientific research. I think I have dealt with all the questions that have been put. I'm gonna go through the actual questions. The GEES has effectively made public reports. That is not the case for everything. We have indeed received several questions about openness of administration. I do not really have a problem with that myself, unless it concerns matters which are economically sensitive or which still have to be completed. In the coming weeks there will be transparency in this area. In relation to the dates, I have just said that Mr Marius Gilbert and Mr Niel Hens are constantly talking to Sciensano to capture as much data as possible. However, there are legal limits to what can be shared and how that can be shared. That's a constant process. We're looking into that. We are trying to meet the need for open data as much as possible. I answered the question about the asymptomatic tests and ZenTech. At the moment, via the data streams of Sciensano, we have a view of what is happening per municipality, but not yet finer. That has come to light at the VUB tool. People use data that is publicly available from Sciensano. There one can see what is happening in the municipalities. I have already answered questions about the second wave. Stakeholders are currently being consulted on how to properly monitor the performance of the tasks by the Task Force. For the textile masks, please refer to Mr Goffin, who manages that file and knows the smallest detail. He can answer that. The number of tests is decreasing. Fewer patients appear in general practitioners. There is also a need to fine-tuning all the tests in the communities, as I indicated. For the other questions, I think I answered. If I've forgotten anything, I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u37	Thank you, Mr. De Backer. Mrs De Block has the floor. Je vous donne 45 minutes, Madame De Block, as a directional figure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u38	Mr. President, you're too generous. All the questions asked are important, but the question about the next EUR 1 billion advance for general and psychiatric hospitals is very topical. This was approved on Saturday passed by the Kern+10. It's about 500 million times. In June, early July, a first tranche of 500 million, and again at the end of September, early October, a new tranche of 500 million. It is therefore a first and second advance, distributed in the same way, i.e. in relation to turnover. Why is this happening through the funds foreseen for the RIVIZ budget targets 2020? Because this is the fastest way to free this money. After that, of course, this will be replenished. Final regularization is in full preparation. That will be a one-off BFM payment, by 2020. This is done in consultation with the sector. We have received an initial opinion from the National Council of Hospital Institutions and we expect a second opinion. Numerous discussions have taken place with medico-mut, the National Council of Hospital Institutions, the FPS and INAMI administrations. Some costs for the hospital are normally borne by fees and continue to run, for example, staff working in fee billing services, while there have been fewer activities – hence fewer fees – in some services. Then there is also the FOD's additional cost survey. The preparations for this were carried out in collaboration with the National Council for Hospital Services. The hospitals were able to submit this survey until 5 June. There is still a need for some analysis, but the results can already be used as a basis for final regularisation. A distinction will be made between the one-off costs, i.e. the preparation of the hospital for COVID-19. And recurring costs, i.e. costs that take into account the difference in cost for patients who are treated in intensive care with respirator or ECMO, for the most severe cases. The additional costs will be distinguishable from costs shifts. The survey will be followed up to identify the additional costs from May onwards, as this is another situation. This is mainly about the fact that we must continue to work safely, because any patient or visitor may be infected. In addition to strict hygiene measures, there are also many personal protective equipment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u39	Minister, there was a cut in her. You were talking about protective equipment and hygiene.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u40	This is a different situation. There is also a consultation with the inter-ministerial commission and a technical working group with all the administrations, in order to avoid double funding. [[defective connection]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u41	Madam Minister, apparently the connection problem comes from your home because I see all the other speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u42	Mr President, there is also the study carried out by Zorgnet-Icuro during the first five weeks, which shows a considerable decrease in activity. We will only now be able to see this in the liquidity position, as there is always a certain delay in invoicing. It has been calculated that, in the short term, an amount of EUR 1.5 billion could be used to deal with the cash flow problems of hospitals, but as a precaution, we have already planned two billion, divided as follows: 1+0.5+0.5. A distinction must be made between the advance and the definitive calculation, which will be made on the basis of the number of patients VOCID-19 and the available VOCID-19 capacity. As I said last week, additional funding for VOCID-19 care should not be confused with other initiatives, such as the White Blouse Fund, IFIC and hospital reform. That was the answer to Mr Bertels' question. Another issue that has caused quite a stir here is the publication of the GEES reports by the Prime Minister in accordance with the principle of openness of administration. Only the Prime Minister could allow this publication, as the GEES expert group reported to the Prime Minister. There is indeed a control tower, where the first line of defence, the top, consists of testing and tracing, which was discussed by Minister Philippe De Backer. Several discussions have already taken place on the second line of defence at the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. Mr. Christiaan Decoster, who runs the crisis cell with me, has given a very exposé on how it should look. A framework was also agreed on 20 May, which is currently being developed in cooperation between all the Länder. The IMC has agreed to strengthen and accelerate the monitoring of the epidemic, with the aim of identifying local outbreaks of infection or a possible second wave as soon as possible and taking targeted measures to minimise clusters. That system is called the second line of defence of virus resistance management. It is complementary to the contact follow-up, when infection of individuals is detected. The second-line defence will build on the existing expertise and capacity of the Lander surveillance services for infectious diseases. The additional measures must create as fine a framework as possible, whereby we can quickly implement solutions in the least outbreak: how many people need to be tested in isolation, how many people need to be tested and how is that followed. All levels have a role to play in this, even though this work is mainly at the level of the Länder, since it concerns possible outbreaks in residential centres, in schools, at work, in crèches, in youth associations, in music ensembles, in short, there are many examples. We are involved in the process through the role played by our administration Sciensano in this matter. This is in the process of refining the reporting process, so that we can identify new outbreaks or new outbreaks up to the level of the municipalities or a specific region, in order to apply targeted advice and measures. This comes with tracking and tracing, which are essential at all times and are part of primary care. It is not, therefore, that we have not yet worked on this. The framework was already agreed at the IMC on 20 May. Preparations have started immediately, following the recommendations of the GEES. Everything related to the control tower has been partially implemented, but that has not yet been fully completed. Between the GEES report, which came out more than a week ago, and now many new things have happened, including via (...) Mrs Depoorter asked why the GEES report was drawn up in English. I've seen that, too, to my surprise. Mrs Vlieghe said that they had chosen English, because it is the common language among scientists and one has to do with Flemings and Walen. As for the manifestation, last Saturday there was a meeting of the nuclear cabinet plus ten. At the request of the crisis centre, I had also asked for an urgent opinion on the Celeval event. This was also given on June 5th. This was about the epidemiological situation, the mobility and the psychological impact. It was important to know how far one had to respect the freedom of expression of the demonstrators at all times. On the other hand, there was the question of what the threat was, given the fact that the virus was still in the air here. In that the opinion was clear: one asked to keep the distance and make wearing a mask in the manifestation mandatory. That would in turn be a problem with police regulations. One had asked for a static manifestation: do not move, but stand. An alternative was thus offered, but that was not followed. It was right to point out the risk of spread by infection for people who would be present from many different regions, bubbles and age classes. Moreover, it was also pointed out that the contact tracing after ten thousand people had been together was not evident. I read in the press that only five thousand people were expected, but at that time more than nine thousand people had already been registered on different platforms. There's something in there that doesn't add up. In terms of mobility and transport possibilities, they considered that there would probably be no problem in terms of public transport usage, given that it was on a Sunday. For communication they have insisted on continuing to communicate the six basic principles. I see they were knocked in the wind. The risk is very present at such a manifestation, in which indeed masks were worn, but sometimes in very strange ways when I see the images like this. I come to the questions about the visitor scheme. A relaxation is possible in both residential and hospital care centres, but it is mainly left to the local administration to find the right and safe way to do so. Every home-care center can arrange this in a safe but sometimes different way. That is also the case for hospitals. Mr De Backer has already spoken about stock. There was the question of who has the lead in the implementation and elaboration of the second line. All appointments go through the Inter-Ministerial Conference. It goes without saying that the measures taken by the Länder must be coherent and of the same quality. Mrs Van Camp, I have received another question from Mrs Samyn about this premium. It is not that if you ask three times a week, you will receive a different answer three times a week. I have already said that federalism is an agreement on this and coordination with the regions is still ongoing. That has come back to the table from the social dialogue. The social partners say that the sector needs more structural measures. However, it is certainly not off the table. Then I'll get to the Health Care Staff Fund. A proposal has been discussed in Parliament. There is the possibility to have more hands on the bed and to train more. I hope that this proposal can be implemented smoothly. However, this will not be easy given the tight labour market. Social dialogue has begun. The commitment has been made to ensure that this is done in a serene manner and, above all, to find solutions in the coming weeks. Mrs Creemers, you asked a question on the WTO opinion. The previous opinion, which we followed, was adopted on 6 April. This opinion dates from 5 June, so it is very recent. It's the same as the ECDC's opinion in April. The difference between previous and this WHO opinion is that it recognises that masks can be useful to the general public when no distance can be kept. In any scenario recommended, not being able to maintain distance is a serious matter. Of course, sick people or people showing symptoms must also wear it, as was already the case. So it is as good as possible in line with Belgian policy. The WHO also recognises that there are limits to the usefulness of masks and that there may be risks associated with misuse. For example, I have already seen masks hanging under the chin or being pushed down to smoke a cigarette. If one looks around a little, one can see everything. It also recognises that they are certainly not a substitute for the hygiene measures, and above all the distance which must be taken at all times. So mouth masks, as I've always said, can give a false sense of security. That's what we saw at that manifestation. As regards the nomenclature for home care, Mrs Van Camp, the measures will apply until the end of June 2020. The Insurance Committee has set up a working group to evaluate the measures and, depending on the needs, to take new initiatives or extend the measures. The insurance institutions were asked to produce the data more quickly for the new COOVID-19 provision. The RIZIV will have available data for March, April and May and will process them on 15 June. During the week of 22 June, the RIZIV will be able to answer your question, but faster they will not be able to work on it. As regards the questions on vaccines, the FAGG is responsible for the close follow-up of several vaccines. Currently, there are six vaccines in a clinical phase, two in Europe, one of Oxford University and the mRNA vaccine developed by BioNTech. CanSino and Moderna are the first vaccine manufacturers to report data on safety and neutralization, but the level of protection remains unclear for the time being. At the WHO Assembly, a resolution was adopted stating that immunisation against COVID-19 should be considered as a global public good for health and that everyone should have access to an affordable vaccine. These are important principles that still need to be operationalised. The WHO will therefore draw up plans in the coming months to make these principles concrete, in close consultation with the Member States and experts. Our country is also an active member of the WTO and the European Union. Both bodies also intend to develop vaccination plans at their level. We are committed to ensuring that planning and distribution are carried out in accordance with objective and evidence-based criteria. Mrs Depoter, Mr Creyelman, as regards the transparency and functioning of the Risk Assessment Group, it is true that the guidelines for the treatment of hospitalised patients have been revised, but the use of hydrochloroquine is still possible in clinical studies, after careful re-evaluation of the risks and potential benefits. The WHO states that a final decision on the effectiveness or lack thereof, as well as possible side effects related to hydroxychloroquine, will be taken as soon as it has evaluated the studies and all the results. The assessment will also include data from WHO Solidarity Trials and other ongoing investigations. According to the WHO, this can be expected in mid-June. Mrs Depoorter, the RAG does not make recommendations on treatments, nor does Sciensano. That's the job of the infectiologists. However, in the context of the current crisis, Sciensano supports, among other things, literature review and coordination for the compilation of different opinions and procedures. For example, the recommendation on the interim clinical scheme for adults with suspicious or confirmed COVID-19 in Belgium was drawn up by UZA clinics, the Institute of Tropical Medicine and the Hôpital Saint-Pierre. The content of the communication via the COVID-19 press release three times a week is also prepared in consultation with the communication service of the FPS Public Health. This is certainly not a personal view of Professor Van Gucht, quite the contrary. Experts do indeed sometimes have contradictory opinions. We've heard and seen a lot of them on all the channels. That is for any subject so, but everyone is free to express his opinion. The Public Health Office has no control over that. What is important, however, is that the healthcare provider knows where to find the views and guidelines of the government, namely on www.info-coronavirus.be and on the website of Sciensano. The extent to which the RAG opinions should be made public shall be considered. It is often a question of working documents in different languages without a uniform layout and the preparatory work for publishing and translating these opinions is currently under way. So the publication's coming up. There were also questions from Mrs Depoorter about the logopedic sessions. Apparently, this concerns in particular the treatment of the disorder dysphagia. Provided that the prescribing physician confirms this disorder, up to 65 30-minute sessions are eligible for reimbursement, spread over a maximum total period of two years. The brake fee is 5.5 euros per session. In principle, the maximum invoice takes into account only the personal share paid by the patient for services reimbursed by the compulsory health insurance. The maximum number of eligible sessions is not determined by the prescriber but by the nomenclature and is identical for all patients with the same diagnosis. Mrs Creemers, as is the case with all major diseases, COVID-19 patients also need a multidisciplinary approach to rehabilitation. The nomenclature provides for the necessary benefits in kind that can be charged for these patients. These include sessions with ergotherapists and physiotherapists. I'll send you the full list, but also the dietists are part of this. They are actively involved in rehabilitation and therefore have a useful role to play where the provision of nutritional advice has a clear added value. Their performance is included in the fee for multidisciplinary rehabilitation sessions. That fee is charged by the physician-specialist in physical medicine and rehabilitation who spends it to compensate the various healthcare professionals. An additional fee is also provided within the lap of the RIZIV, on top of the benefits already available. This can then be charged via a newly created pseudo-colon number. Mrs Sneppe, you asked about the correlation between low vitamin D levels and severe COOVID-19 and the use of natural-source immunity boosters in the fight against COOVID. It is important to note that science and medical care can never happen anonymously. It is therefore very important that study results are published, including in scientific journals, where peer review is the rule. All this ensures a better quality of publications. The law of 7 May on experiments on the human person makes a distinction between experiments on humans and clinical trials, which are bound by very precise rules. An experiment requires the advice of the Medical Ethics Commission. In addition, a clinical trial requires the approval of the FAGG. The study you are describing seems to be a retrospective study, which therefore requires an opinion from the Committee on Medical Ethics. So one cannot simply conduct anonymous investigations. For clinical trials, there is also a European obligation to publish those clinical trials in the EU Clinical Trials Register. In addition, the Helsinki Declaration states that any human research must be registered in a public register before the first participant is included in the study. A doctor who follows these rules will not be able to lose his job, that was your question, quite the contrary. Indeed, there are studies on the correlation between vitamin D and severe COVID-19. That's known to the services. Each dossier for a clinical trial with a human medicinal product shall be examined by the FAGG and the Commission for Medical Ethics for quality, toxicology and clinical research. The origin of the research medicinal product is irrelevant. No distinction is made there. You can view this at any time. Ms. Taquin, as far as clinical trials are concerned, there are clinicaltrialsdatabase.be and clinicaltrials.org sites within AFMPS where you can consult all ongoing clinical trials. Mrs Dock, in terms of the link between diabetes and coronavirus, diabetes is a co-morbidity factor such as high blood pressure, cardiovascular disease, advanced age or obesity. In case of acute infection, as always in a diabetic person, a state of insulin resistance develops causing transient hyperglycaemia. In case of severe infection with VOCID-19, this transient hyperglycaemia is reported in several studies. On the other hand, as mentioned in the magazine The Lancet, saying that VOCID is the cause of chronic diabetes, and this through pancreatic cell damage, is still only a hypothesis that needs to be verified. This will be done in the coming months. Mrs Gijbels and Madame Rohonyi had questions about the testing and tracing and follow-up of the number of infected people. I have not only prepared an explanation for this, but also tables. 3,464 diagnostic studies were conducted on healthcare professionals. That was 3.368 within the screening of residential care centres and 96 within the triage centres. The total number of positive tests in Belgium is 2 %, in the regions it is 2 to 3 %. On average, 10% of care workers in the residential care centres were symptomatic, in Belgium. In Flanders it was 9%, in Brussels it was 8% and in Wallonia it was 17%. In Wallonia, the rate of asymptomatics reached 17%, almost twice that of Brussels. As regards the number of tests, the percentages are positive: 2% across the country, 1% in Flanders, 2% in Wallonia and Brussels. The result is a little apart from the number of positive symptomatic tests of nursing staff in Wallonia, whereas this was the most serious problem for caregivers. Mr. Rigot, for the registration of health care personnel infected with VOCID-19, prevention counsellors and occupational physicians are responsible for monitoring the health of workers, in accordance with the Code of Welfare at Work. On this basis and on the basis of the laws relating to occupational diseases, they are legally obliged to inform the Federal Agency for Occupational Hazards (Fedris) of all diseases found to have been caused by the victim's profession. The procedure is therefore known and has been used repeatedly since the outbreak of the pandemic, as evidenced by the latest data available from Fedris. As a result, on June 2, 3,021 reports of VOCID-19 were introduced by prevention advisors. On the other hand, the question of compensation for independent healthcare staff falls within the competence of my colleague Ducrame. Mr Dallemagne, you asked me a lot of numbers. Those available to me were published in Sciensano's weekly epidemiological bulletin, which contains information other than those published in his daily bulletin. The number of residents in nursing homes who have died is included. Thus, it appears that about 30% of hospitalized patients who came from nursing homes died, based on a calculation based on the most recent data at the time of the response. In addition, 53 persons residing in homes for the elderly also died in the hospital. How many of them were in residences for persons with disabilities? This figure is not available for Wallonia, or not yet. You also asked other questions about the methodology and timing of the publication of the figures. I have an answer from Sciensano about that. This was discussed with the federated entities, of course. I'll send this to you in writing. You will of course be able to share this answer with your fellow Members. Mrs Rohonyi, I think Mr. De Backer told you about access to serological tests. Questions were also asked about chronic care, elective care and psychological care and the delay of care. It has been noted in several countries that, during the period of the epidemic, the necessary and priority care has been provided, while less priority activities have been postponed. The hospital capacity for patients with VOCID-19 should be guaranteed. Nevertheless, from the beginning of the active phase of the emergency plan, I have always insisted that urgent and unavoidable non-VOCID care be provided. Of course, patients were sometimes afraid to attend the hospital. However, chemotherapy and radiation therapy for cancer continued to take place. To facilitate this continuity, INAMI has authorized the hypofractionated irradiation scheme and multidisciplinary oncological consultation by video conference. In addition, the application of telemedicine was useful during the most critical period of the pandemic in several disciplines, such as cardiology, front-line care, psychological care, etc. Postponement of care can lead to an increase in morbidity and even mortality. General practitioners and specialists have taken the initiative to contact patients at risk. It is also necessary to convince the population who do not suffer from chronic disease but who may face health problems to consult again. To emphasize this importance, an administrative circular on instructions for non-emergency medical care was sent to hospitals and medical associations on 16 April, and on 24 April, the Security Council also stressed the importance of the resumption of care for non-VOCID diseases. The April 30 Administrative Circular, on the modalities for the resumption of non-essential outpatient care activities in private practice, encourages physicians to resume care for all their patients. One of the considerations was to avoid collateral damage of too long a restriction of activities. In this sense, all explanations to encourage citizens to resume their care, even if not urgent, are available on the website info-coronavirus. We are also working on a message that will appear in the Health Viewer. Mrs Creemers, in normal circumstances, the data on diagnoses collected in our country by the Foundation against Cancer are available two years after processing. We asked for the data from the register to be processed early from January to May 2020 so that we do not have to wait two years for an overview of all new cancer diagnoses during this period. Preliminary figures for monitoring by the RIZIV, together with the FPS Public Health, show that these studies continued, but that some patients may indeed have delayed care for fear of infection. The media regularly points out the need to consult a doctor when there are symptoms that may indicate oncological or other problems. The FPS Public Health is following the re-launch of non-urgent care through the monitoring in collaboration with the RIZIV. I turn now to Mr. Rigot's question about the additional fees charged by dentists and orthodontists as a result of the crisis in VOCID-19. I will give you my answer, because I think that Mr Rigot is currently participating in another committee. In reply to Mrs Schlitz's question, I would point out that the Federal Council of Midwives is awaiting renewal, so that the main professional associations in the country have responded. Bureau members were invited to deliver an opinion on behalf of the Board but preferred to work in the consortium of Francophone and Dutch-speaking professional associations. The following week, the Federal Public Service Administration (FPS) Public Health proposed that they issue their opinions in tabular form, but the representatives of the midwives consulted did not wish to submit their opinions in this form. The tables are for advisory purposes and therefore have no binding value. They contain recommendations from professional groups to their peers. The Public Health FPS has not issued any rules regarding the conditions for the presentation of physiotherapists and midwives. These recommendations are therefore the result of peer work in federal associations or councils, as well as the consultation of scientific sources and international recommendations tailored to the context and specificities of each profession. A roadmap for midwifes was published on 3 June after the reboot of care. With regard to the presence of co-parents during prenatal consultations, I have never heard, Mrs Schlitz, that this was prohibited, but it was recommended that if a patient could be accompanied by a person, the person should remain in the waiting room. The original purpose of this recommendation was to protect the accompanying person from unnecessary and potentially infectious contact with the hospital. This measure was also intended to limit potentially infectious contacts for caregivers and to limit the spread of the epidemic. The doctor has always been able to authorize an exception. However, most physicians have interpreted this recommendation very strictly. Since the resumption of normal functioning, there has been no prohibition on fathers or comers to be present at the consultation. It is only the health-care facilities or the health-care providers themselves that must ensure that this can be done safely. Hospitals are therefore free to determine their own policy in this regard, depending on, for example, the size of the waiting rooms or other local factors. Sciensano recalls that any additional person entering the hospital presents an additional risk for infection. It is not because people belong to the same bubble that they are all carriers of the virus or not. If the current figures are good, we remain careful in hospitals. That is also what my daughter tells me, who must also consult a gynaecologist and a midwife. That means my son-in-law must stay in the parking lot. With regard to VOCID-19 protocols in maternity wards, the same is true. I will give you the answer which also concerns the availability of oral masks and other protections. Mr Bertels, you had a question about the strategy for the chronically ill in the exit strategy. There has been attention to this because it concerns more vulnerable people. The recommendations were communicated to the general practitioners. The treating physician shall assess, in consultation with the patient with a chronic disease, whether a return to work is safe enough. This is considered on a case-by-case basis. Not every underlying disease carries the same risk. The conditions for the resumption of work are also different everywhere. Often it also depends on the extent to which the disease is under control and on whether there are any treatments, for example with corticosteroids, that lower the immune system. Persons with a limited risk can return to work outside the home after consultation with both the general practitioner and the occupational physician, provided that the precautions are strictly observed. It may also be possible to provide adapted work. Of course, that's why the occupational physician intervenes. The existing channels of consultation between different doctors are used in this respect. In order to assist enterprises in the step-by-step construction, the social partners of the High Council for Protection and Prevention at Work, the policy cell of Minister Muylle van Werk and experts of the FPS Employment have worked out a generic guide. It also calls for particular attention to be paid to workers with vulnerable health. In this respect, it is always stated that the decision depends on the consultation between the occupational physician and the treating physician of the chronic patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u43	Mrs De Block, you have already gone over the 45-minute speaking time for three minutes. I don't know how many answers you have left.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u44	I will give the answer to Ms.Tillieux's question on the treatment of cystic fibrosis – which is four pages long – in writing. As for seasonal influenza, we have already made contact so that we can have more vaccines than last year. This is a good thing, because we have in the meantime received the opinion of the Higher Council of Health which notes an enlargement of target groups compared to last year, where 2.1 million vaccines have been administered to patients – and we believe that this will increase. Mrs. Depoorter, you had a question about the psychiatric hospitals. Mrs Gijbels, you asked for explanations about the teleconsultations. I also have the weekly figures, from 14 March to 29 May. I also have the figures by Region, as someone asked. That might be interesting. I also have a very long explanation for Mrs Gijbels about the composition of the Risk Management Group (RMG), the Risk Assessment Group (RAG) and the Scientific Committee, as well as the access to documents and the composition of these important groups, as should be the case in a federal phase during a sanitary crisis. That might be interesting for the other members as well. The validated texts can all be found on the website of Sciensano. I would like to explain the role of the Scientific Committee. Mr De Backer has already given answers on the duration of the quarantine. Then I come to Mrs Tillieux's question about the use of UVC lamps. Here too, there is an answer. As for Mrs Sneppe's question on the corona contamination of Prince Joachim, I do not quite understand why you are asking me that question. I just read in the press that the prince would have been infected during a professional relocation in the context of a business placement and that he showed symptoms afterwards. As for checking the certificate, that has to be delivered by the FOD WASO and I am not competent to do so. As for your question as to whether the rest of the family is suffering from symptoms, I hope not, but I believe that every family has the right to respect for their privacy and the medical secret of whether or not they are infected with their family members. All Belgians are entitled to it, regardless of their rank or position. I come to questions from Mrs Taquin and Mrs Rohonyi on the organisation of schools. I can't answer you. In this respect, there is communication between the GEES and the teaching network, but I still know that the ministers responsible for education are also taking measures – in any case, Mrs Désir – for crèches. They are keeping us informed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. Mr President, we will, as always, deliver the necessary written documents to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u45	Thank you, Mrs De Block. Then we'll go to the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u46	Minister De Backer, it is very positive that the clinical labs for the next wave will in any case be better engaged. I hope and suppose that there are already discussions with those clinical labs in the process of managing things and preparing them properly, so that there is a clear step-by-step plan for which there is no doubt. I also understand that the extension of the tests to asymptomatic contacts was decided 14 days ago, was confirmed a week ago and is now being rolled out. So we wait and see what this means for the timeline. We'll follow that up. I also repeat my question about the way in which Sciensano processes and collects data. I think it is interesting for Parliament to get a better look at it so that we can better understand how that works. I did not receive an answer to the question of how many serological tests were ordered from whom, for what amount and on what criteria. I hope there will be an answer to that. I am also very pleased that we will be able to consult the reports of the RMG, the RAG and the Scientific Committee. I do not understand why it took so long before an answer came. I have already asked for this composition in several meetings. Every time that question was ignored. About the infection in the care providers it seems to be about a small 7,000 care providers with symptoms. The residential care centres would account for 3,300 of the total 9,000 infections. That's a lot. It would be good to see that table so that we can analyse this properly. I did not get an answer to the question about medical certificates for people going abroad. Perhaps that question was put a little too late and it will be dealt with in a subsequent committee. I have a brief comment on the masks for dentists. Mrs. Fonck mentioned that, too. Minister De Backer said in a previous committee that 21,000 FFP2 masks have already been distributed among dentists, but you know that there are 10,000 dentists. That means every dentist got two masks. We're not gonna jump that far. I hope there will be an improvement soon. My colleague had to go to the Home Affairs Committee. She'll be right back for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u47	It's possible. There's still time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u48	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers, which were very complete. With regard to the World Health Organisation's advice on the use of mouth masks, you are right to say that this has been in line with Belgian policy for weeks. Yet you can see everywhere that mouth masks are still being used wrongly. I see mostly that they are not used enough. In recent weeks, you have shown that large-scale communication does reach the people. I would therefore call on you to use all your influencers, or whatever they may do, to communicate even better and more clearly. Maybe you can get good practices with nice Tiktok movies to the people. In my environment I see too few people using a mask, let alone use it properly. So I just wanted to reinforce that call. Your answer to the cancer diagnosis seems complete to me. I like to follow it up with you and hope it's not too bad, much better than in the Netherlands. It is very good that nutrition advice from dietists is picked up in the multidisciplinary teams. What you said about the newly created pseudo-colon number at the RIZIV, I couldn't quite follow. Is it true that patients who come from a hospital and consult a self-employed dietician can also apply for a refund? Since that has not become clear to me, I would like to ask that supplementary question. Minister, I will put the question I asked you to Minister Goffin's attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u49	Mr. and Mrs. Ministers, thank you for your answers. With respect to deferment of care, I understand that the federal government has taken a series of initiatives. But the people who postpone care are people who are relatively unconnected; they are vulnerable people who are not as well informed as you and I. It is these people that must be given priority. There is a real need for the government to encourage and support all communications initiatives as widely as possible. It must be public campaigns. It's not just an administrative circular that can be found in PDF format on the info-coronavirus website. People won't see that information. It is really important that they are now reassured, because the postponement of care is really more serious and they must understand it. I invite you to consult with patient associations, pharmacists, general practitioners, hospitals to really start a large-scale awareness campaign. In the same vein, it is also important to communicate very clearly on the use of serological tests, particularly to companies that have the opportunity to obtain serological tests. It is essential that people know that these tests are only done on a voluntary basis. It is absolutely unthinkable that this is linked to constraints, especially in terms of employment. I will also make a comment about the $1 billion advance for hospitals. I did not ask the question, but it is also necessary to consult the hospital sector in order to agree on the costs that will be eligible. The decree that is currently on the table mixes two concepts. There's a cash advance. A cash advance, stricto sensu, is repayable. But he is also talking about funding costs that would be incurred by the hospital in terms of equipment costs, human resources, as part of the VOCID-19. You really have to be very clear. Hospitals are in great demand to know clearly what they will have to pay back or not. A priori, I think that in view of the financial complications and non-revenues they have faced since the beginning of the crisis, this additional billion will be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u50	Mr President, I thank the Ministers for their answers. Mrs De Block, I would obviously be happy to receive your answers about cystic fibrosis. You said that you would transmit it to me in writing, as well as the use of UVC lamps, also in writing. As far as hospitals are concerned, as my colleague has just said, I stress the importance of monitoring the situation on a day-to-day basis. We didn't get out of the crisis. Not only do we risk a second wave, but above all, the activity in hospitals is far from regaining its normal rhythm. This will certainly still be the case for many months. It is true that special hygiene measures must be taken, which inevitably slows down the course of consultations and places a heavy burden on the budget for hospital receipts. I really urge you to be attentive in this regard. You're telling me you're waiting for the advice of the National Council of Institutions on the formulas proposed in terms of the distribution of funds. Given the magnitude of the amounts involved, I think we have not finished questioning you on this issue. I didn't hear you answer the question about psychiatric hospitals. I think they are indeed beneficiaries of the millions that you have released. Are they covered by the same allocation rule and what is the amount of the envelope? Mr. De Backer, I asked you about saliva tests. In this regard, we have referred to innovative solutions such as the deployment of telemedicine or innovation to help potential solutions in times of crisis. I hope that we will know very quickly the results of studies commissioned by the working group and conducted by universities in the field of saliva testing. If these tests prove to be effective, they will be a real aid in the supply chain for the detection and tracing of contacts. I therefore urge you to follow this dossier carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u51	Madam Minister, with regard to my question about cessation of care, I understand that various initiatives have been implemented, but I can only encourage you to promote them and to communicate very broadly on the need not to give up essential care, in order to avoid a second health crisis, a crisis that many specialists have feared for several weeks. With regard to the final opinion of the panel of experts on the deconfining strategy, which is concerned about the government's lack of preparedness for a possible epidemic rebound, I have not heard much objective evidence that you rely on to say whether or not we are prepared to cope with a potential rebound. Nevertheless, this group of experts continues to question itself and it should be possible to provide very concrete answers to this question. Finally, I had a big doubt about your answer to my question about these famous fabric masks provided by the federal government. But I tried to put it to you. It must be noted that Mr. De Backer referred me to Mr Goffin, whom I will not fail to question this week, since the committee was postponed, but next week, hoping to receive an answer to all my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u52	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer to my question on alternative medicine. It is the third time that I have asked a question on this subject and I have finally received an answer that will do, and I thank you for that. As for the contagion of Prince Joachim, I'm not so satisfied with your answer. I realize there might have been questions that were meant for Minister Muylle. So I'll put them to her, too, hoping I can get an answer. As far as the questions relating to matters which do fall within your competence are concerned, I have a point of view. If an old man rests on a bench in the park, he gets a fine of 250 euros, but a prince who goes not only on a trip, but also participates in a lockdown party, can apparently get away with that. It is therefore clear once again that not every Belgian is equal before the law. The fact that you do not give sufficient answers to my questions raises some doubts about the integrity of this whole situation. I will investigate this matter further and hope that I will be put a little more on the road by Minister Muylle. I did not receive an answer to my question about the Health Care Staff Fund. How are the negotiations going there? When do you intend to allocate the amount in structural terms? I didn't get any answers to those questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u53	Mr President, I was almost suggesting to Mr Creemers that we should make a PowerPoint, but I do not know if that is the best plan with this government. Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. I have checked and I think I have received an answer to all my questions. So you've made me a happy man.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u54	You'll be happy soon. All the better for you. That does not, of course, mean anything about the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u55	Mr President, I thank the Ministers for the answers. I will take the time to read them again because we also receive them in writing. I would like to stress one important point. This is the current and future situation of hospitals. I know that this is a matter for the attention of the current government. I would like to stress the collaboration and cooperation between doctors, hospitals and authorities on projects that need to be more strategic, organizational and qualitative, which are extremely important. Any ill-conceived reform could endanger the future of the Belgian hospital system. It will be necessary to work transparently and to build on the important deadlines. Through this crisis, the focus is on the urgent need to work on the financial, strategic, organisational and qualitative future of our hospital system. I have no doubt for a moment that the Minister of Health has already done so with all the energy we can recognize. We must be able to say that too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u56	Mr President, I will also make sure that some extra time is left, because I do not really have anything else to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u57	That was very short indeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u58	Mr President, the same applies here. I'm reassured about the vaccines for the seasonal flu. For three questions, I understand I have to ask a follow-up question in a few weeks, since the answers are in the making, I suppose. So I'll do that in a couple of weeks. Madam and Minister, thank you for the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u59	Mr President, I will also be very brief. Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Firstly, we will have to follow up closely on the issue of whether there is effective consultation between the general practitioner and the occupational physician in the field, as you say in your reply. I'm getting a lot of signals that chronically ill and chronic patients are not fully reassured about this. After all, they do not always know what to do. Secondly, I had another question, which will come back later, when there is a real vaccine. That question was about the availability of vaccines for chronically ill, if it comes to that. We will have to come back to this question later, when there is a real vaccine on the market, which, of course, should also benefit the chronically ill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u60	Madam and Mr.Minister, I admit that I am somewhat frustrated by the lack of answers on your part. I have the impression that we are turning around in terms of strategy and the implementation of an effective action plan to avoid and, where appropriate, manage a potential rebound. You promise us a lot, week after week, but the situation is not changing. The tools we have today are not commensurate with the seriousness of the situation we must be able to deal with. I therefore fully understand the appeals of Erika Vlieghe, Marc Van Ranst or Emmanuel André. I believe that both federal and federated entities need to work with much more speed, efficiency and ambition to meet the remaining risks. Minister, I have made it clear that I have proposed that you set up a communication campaign based on the various health actors who are in direct contact with the patient, in order to bring patients back to consultation and direct them to screening and hospital care whenever necessary. I think you are in a position to do so, and I hope you will hear my proposal, because there is an urgent need. As far as hospitals are concerned, the situation needs to be stabilized. It would be irresponsible to wait for billing returns. We must be able to see this clearly and ensure that hospital costs are fully covered. I am not just talking about the extra costs, but also about the costs associated with the least cash flow. You are aware that the activity rate is currently close to 50%, but you yourself have forced hospitals to keep empty beds (USI and not USI), which penalises them financially. Finally, Mr. De Backer, dentists received masks but these are simple surgical masks (the American model commonly known as N95). Once again, I ask you to provide FFP2 or KN95 masks, because the risk of aerosol release whenever a dentist performs milling is extremely high. This is truly a public health issue for both the dentist and the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u61	I have to bounce back on the serology tests. The Minister rightly explained that these tests should be used in addition to the tracing of contacts currently in place, while knowing that studies are still under way to determine which tests are the most reliable and to know to what extent antibodies are effective. Are patients now sufficiently informed in this regard? Indeed, according to the results of serological tests, patients must be prevented from believing themselves to be invincible, even though they are not! Given the essential role of the physician in interpreting the results, is there now a protocol for general practitioners? I welcome the possibility of making available a new strategic stock of protective equipment, but I understand that it would be up to the federated entities to report on developments in this area. Therefore, I would like to make sure that the Regions establish this state of affairs, before the federal government takes care of the order. Indeed, I would like to prevent us from finding ourselves again in a situation where the federated entities would be asked to make these stocks available in the event of a second wave. For the reconfinition plan, Mrs De Block, I am quite right in saying that all health actors must be mobilised to that end. I am thinking in particular of nursing homes, since 7 out of 10 deaths due to coronavirus have unfortunately occurred there. However, I do not agree with you when you say that this will be a matter for the Regions. Indeed, whether we want it or not, it is the federal government that remains competent to manage the epidemic. This implies that instructions must be given by the latter, albeit in consultation with the federated entities and the bodies concerned. What then of this concertation? Finally, with regard to the resumption of courses, the schools have taken measures. It is normal for us to be kept informed at interdepartmental Health conferences. Therefore, I call on you to pay attention to their conclusions, because it is essential that we can learn the lessons of this school year. In this way, we can guarantee that the month of September will take place in good sanitary conditions for all children, regardless of their age.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u62	We still have half an hour left, which we are not necessarily going to use. Further questions were asked to Ms De Block. I will therefore give five minutes to each of the two ministers to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u63	I can inform Mrs Creemers that a pseudo-RIZIV number was created for the consultation of dietists in the hospital for the time in the hospital and rehabilitation. I have checked whether this is also true for self-employed dietists, but that does not appear to be clear. I expect the answer to that. Mrs H annoyance, as far as costs are concerned, we talked about a billion dollars, which we have already given. This includes, in addition to the costs incurred, the decrease in consultations that occurred and an increase in staff required to treat patients with VOCID-19. Mrs Sneppe, the same answer applies to the Staff Fund as to your colleague. I also talked about the Human Resources Fund. It concerns EUR 402 million to be distributed. Their implementation was also discussed with Mr Bertels last time. Mr Bertels had a question about the administration of the vaccine to vulnerable groups. Both the WHO and the European Commission are working on this. I asked the High Health Council for advice on which vulnerable groups should be vaccinated first. There are vulnerable groups with shaky health, but also vulnerable groups because of their profession. A care profession appears to be more likely to be infected than other professions. We need to know what methodology to use in vaccination. The preparation is under way. Mrs Rohonyi, there are many consultations with the nine competent ministers. It is necessary to have consultations several times a week. With regard to the Interministerial Conference (IMC), we have already had 16 meetings. Tomorrow will be the seventeenth and probably Friday the eighteenth. There are always consultations during the preparatory sessions and all the documents are prepared by different actors. There is also the inter-federal committee, which is located between the federated entities, to which a report is systematically requested within the ICD. For schools, it was the competent ministers who took precautions for students and staff. For the rest, we have also asked the Ministers responsible for education to provide us with the instructions that have been given. When a case occurs in a school, who will be isolated? Who are we going to test? It needs to be ready and we need to know what to do for the communities. I have done so – and this has been validated by the RMG – for asylum centres that include many residents and staff. This also applies to prisons, schools, crèches, etc. – all groups that can exist and where people are in the same bubble.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u64	Mr President, I would like to clarify a few points briefly. As far as serological testing is concerned, I have always said that there were two criteria to determine what could best be ordered. One criterion is the CE marking, the other is the validation that has taken place in Belgium or in another European lab. Remember that we ordered these tests quite early after the start of the crisis and tried to obtain them. We have succeeded. I'll get you a list of the orders we've placed. I showed this a few weeks ago in the presentation in this House. As for the dentists, they've received 40 KN95 masks. It is currently agreed to provide for a refund of protection material via the RIZIV. It is one or the other: either we continue to deliver for free, or there is a refund by the RIZIV. As I said, we will continue to deliver over the next two to three weeks to ensure that primary care can build a strategic, decentralised stock so that people can then benefit from the benefits that are provided for their daily needs in terms of protection material. That's the philosophy we're using now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u65	Who else wants to replicate?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u66	Mr President, Minister, Minister, thank you for the additional answers. I will look again at the overview of the serological tests we received at the time, but my question remains why certain larger firms, such as Roche, are not getting through these test criteria and are still in the waiting room. That's kind of weird, isn't it? As for the masks for the dentists, 21,000 FFP2 masks have been delivered. The problem is that we can get them very hard. I also registered on the federal website to order there, but I got the answer that I had to be patient, that it's not because I registered on that website that I can get material. As far as I'm concerned, it's not about getting free masks, but about getting them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u67	We have never been a purchasing centre for the first line. We have always ensured that deliveries could be made so that there was sufficient material for the first line. The FAGG website has never been a pool website, where orders could be placed. It's never been said like that. Together with the first line, we are looking at how the strategic stock can be built on a decentralised basis, which is why we are continuing to make deliveries. In most cases, the first line is currently quietly supplying and the problems that have been with suppliers in the past are getting solved. This requires further consultation, which takes place permanently within the FPS Public Health. As regards serological tests, a number of criteria have been developed for validation. It is also about building up somewhat long-term immunity and not about short-term immunity. On this basis, the test protocols have been established by the FAGG. It is the FAGG that takes on the validation of the different test protocols for all large and small companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u68	Mrs Gijbels, is there anything you wish to add? [[No.]] Ecolo-Green too does not want to add anything. Mrs Tillieux does not need that either. No one is present from the Flemish Interest anymore. Who else wants to replicate?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u69	Mr De Backer, it's still amazing! For the third time, I ask you the question and you probably won't answer me about these mask stories. I have been very clear for dentists: the masks that are delivered by the federal to dentists are N95 masks, i.e. surgical masks. Continuing to say or to make it seem that dentists who are milling in particular must wear a simple surgical mask, when one knows the risks that have been published in the scientific literature, and realizing that these masks are delivered by the federal government in the form of surgical masks no longer allows me to follow you on this point. It is not a problem with AFMPS that would or would not be an agency, or a front-line issue that would only have to be addressed. Today, not only do you not know how to deliver correct masks to dentists - yet it is very clear in terms of usage - but in addition, we realize, through this simple example, that you have still not built up a sufficient strategic stock both to manage the current situation but also to anticipate tomorrow and the day after a possible rebound. This example is truly illustrative of a calamitous situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u70	I don't agree. That's not right!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u71	I will say everything in four words:too little,too late! It was valid three months ago and it still is today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u72	Mr President, what Mrs Fonck just said is not correct! We went through the RMG, a week ago, to validate our orders and to ask if we had built up a stock large enough - first to provide the first line again. I mentioned the number for dentists and FFP2s that were distributed, as well as the emergency distributions that we have always made with the RMG. The RMG confirmed that the orders were sufficient, not only for next week's distribution for a decentralized strategic stock but also for the second wave. It is clear that we did our work with the task force during the last week, under very difficult conditions but with results.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u73	I don't know if, through the camera, you're going to see, but that, minister: these are the masks that the federal government just sent to dentists. It's Friday. It's an N95 mask, so an American surgical mask. I think it's all said. We're not going to continue the debate. I will again stress a need that is necessary in the event of a high risk. I'm not saying we'd have to wear a FFP2 or a KN95 all the time. In any case, some caregivers applying certain acts under certain circumstances must wear a protective mask far superior to a surgical mask. This is the current aspect. Secondly, if we do not reconstitute a strategic stock and, in the absence of an operational and efficient testing and tracing device to avoid a rebound, we will find ourselves exactly in the case of the figure set out by Erika Vlieghe, Marc Van Ranst and Emmanuel André, namely a lack of preparedness, efficiency and operationality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic199x.u74	No one else wants to reply? No. We have closed the debate, but we will have one more next week. Thank you to the two ministers for being here and to all of you for your questions and answers.
