ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u1	Madam Minister, the dismantling of nuclear reactors will be a first in Belgium. This will be the beginning of a long process of evacuating hazardous substances and radioactive waste. Apart from the spent nuclear fuel that will in principle have to remain at the storage sites in Doel and Tihange, the cutting of reactor tanks (under water?) and the dismantling of other facilities will cause additional nuclear waste.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u2	Mr President, honourable Member, before answering your question, let me first point out that the dismantling of nuclear reactors is not a first in Belgium. Indeed, the BR3 nuclear reactor at SCK-CEN was, in 1962, the first pressurised water reactor (PWR) to be used for electricity generation on the European continent. He was arrested in 1987. This reactor and dismantling was the first laboratory for the testing of dismantling techniques. The European Commission had selected BR3 as a pilot project to demonstrate, within a research framework, the technical and economic feasibility of dismantling reactors in real-life conditions. The Thetis nuclear reactor at the University of Ghent has been completely dismantled since 2015. At the international level, several nuclear power plants comparable to Doel and Tihange have already been dismantled. This operation therefore does not constitute a novelty, either in terms of research and development or in terms of industrial techniques. On the basis of the Electrabel inventory and reference programme, the volume of Class A packaged radioactive waste, expected for the entire decommissioning of all Electrabel nuclear power plants, amounts to about 45 000 m3, as you know, in external volume of monoliths, i.e. packaging. The expected volume of Category B waste is 2,350 m3, in external volume of the high integrity containers (HIC), thus packaging. The expected volume of Category C waste is 0 m3. In accordance with Article 179(2)(1) of the Act of 8 August 1980 on the 1979-1980 budget proposals, the conditioned waste referred to in the answer to the previous question is managed by ONDRAF. Depending on the plan for dismantling and the production of waste in each of the plants, Electrabel will call on ONDRAF and also for the removal of waste from the dismantling. Category A waste from the dismantling, conditioned by Electrabel, will be subject to the control required by ONDRAF. After provisional storage at the ONDRAF monolith production facility at BP1 in Dessel, these Category A waste monoliths will be placed in the surface storage facility for Category A waste at the same location, that is at Dessel. Category B waste resulting from dismantling will be temporarily stored in ONDRAF storage facilities at BP1 in Dessel until a final storage facility is put into operation, under the supervision of a future national policy for the long-term management of Category B and C waste, which we have already mentioned. The cost of dismantling all 7 of Electrabel's reactors was estimated at 5,739 billion euros in 2019 value at the end of 2019, which is provided by Synatom in accordance with the rules in force and under the supervision of the Commission for Nuclear Supplies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u3	Minister, this estimate is obviously crucial. Now, maybe I'm wrong, but I have the impression that it's actually based on an estimate of Synatom itself, not ONDRAF. I believe that it is really crucial for the Belgian State, which, in the end, and as you said, will be responsible for the management of the waste resulting from the dismantling of the seven Belgian reactors, to be able to estimate now, independently, and not on the basis of the estimates of Synatom or Electrabel, how much it will cost. This is done in other countries, in Germany, in France, with the upcoming dismantling of Fessenheim. It is really crucial, simply to ensure sufficient supplies, that the ONDRAF can set a price upstream from now on. Unless I am wrong, I believe that this has not yet been done in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u4	Indeed, ONDRAF makes recurrent assessments and is also working with the Nuclear Supplies Commission to do so. These recurrent evaluations are conducted at regular intervals. The next one, if I have a good memory, will soon be out, around August or September. You have noticed, Mr. Cogolati, that under the leadership of this government, we have gone from $8 billion to $10.7 billion. Over the course of time and the evolution of our national policy, this provision will obviously increase. I would like to reassure you on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u5	Madam Minister, it is fortunate that this amount is increasing, because there are still a few billion to be able to pay for the scrapping and waste management note.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u6	Minister, I have already asked you about the Energy Charter Treaty (ECT) on 18 September, 3 December, 15 January and 10 June. The negotiations for the modernisation of the Treaty opened from 6 to 9 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u7	Madam Minister, there is currently a process of modernisation with regard to the Energy Charter Treaty. The aim of this modernisation is to ensure the right of regulation for the Contracting States to the Convention, as well as to bring the Convention in line with current trends and climate and environmental objectives. The agreement should be able to protect investment not only in conventional energy but also in renewable energy. A few weeks ago, you informed us that Belgium took part in the meeting on 2 June, which focused on the organisational aspects and the approval of the mandate of the negotiations. An important point was the adoption of the agenda for the first cycle of negotiations. That round of negotiations took place last week, between 6 and 9 July 2020. According to your statement in June, there were 25 items on the agenda. For Belgium, it was important to clarify the protection of investments in certain sectors in this type of international agreement. Investment protection agreements provide that investments are protected by one of the Contracting Parties in the territory of the other. In your view, this does not prevent the adoption of environmental laws and measures implementing the Paris Agreement, as long as they are not unfairly discriminatory to investors. In your view, this investment protection also applies to renewable energy. Madam Minister, can you report on the results of the first round of negotiations that took place last week? What were the precise statements made by the Belgian delegation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will first answer the first of your questions about the outcome of these negotiations by speaking in Dutch. I will then reply, Mr Ravyts, to your question concerning the interventions of the Belgian delegation. Then, I will continue by answering more at length the many and specific questions that you have asked me on other subjects, Mr Cogolati. I would like to refer to the information that will be made available in that one public communication summary on the negotiations that will be published on the ECT website in the course of next week. This communication will not mention positions, but will merely list the topics discussed so as not to pre-empt further discussions and thus not jeopardise the further negotiation process. In general, it can be said that they were constructive negotiations. You asked what exactly were the interventions of the Belgian delegation. As EU coordination continued prior to and during the negotiations, the EU Member States decided that the EU would speak as a single voice under the EC on behalf of all Member States. So Belgium did not intervene individually and intervened only during EU coordination. In preparation and during the negotiations, Belgium communicated to the European Energy Commission the following points of interest. Point 1, the only important focus on energy for this round of negotiations was the definition of economic activity for the energy sector. However, the EU did not yet have a text proposal ready for this first round and therefore proposed moving it to September or November. Point 2, the EC would make a proposal after this summer. As far as trade is concerned, this is not my competence, but according to the experts from my services who attended the negotiations closely, there were no specific points of interest or were already tested during previous EU co-ordinations. Mr Cogolati, as you have heard, the position of the European Union and that of its Member States has been coordinated. It was agreed, before the negotiations began, that the European Union would speak with one voice to be stronger in the negotiations. Nevertheless, Belgium has supported, from the outset, within the European Union's modernisation and coordination group, such as the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, the importance of giving greater attention to the sustainability aspect and adapting the scope of the Charter to this end, in order to make it more in line with the COP agreements. However, Belgium does not advocate a complete change in the scope of the Charter and a focus solely on energy efficiency and sustainable investment. Indeed, for the majority of the contracting parties, the ban on any focus on fossil fuels does not seem realistic or feasible. This could jeopardize the entire process of modernization, which is obviously not desirable. Let us not forget that the aim of the modernisation of the Energy Charter Treaty is to guarantee the right of regulation for the Contracting States to the Energy Charter Treaty and to make it compatible with current trends and climate and environmental objectives. The key challenge is therefore to defend the extension of investment protection to renewable energies. This is the only way to put on an equal footing, without any legal discrimination – I insist – the different sources of energy. Without this, renewable energy cannot compete effectively with fossil fuels. You're asking me if I've met with civil society organisations. According to my information, the SPF Foreign Affairs meets regularly with the latter and the Energy Charter Treaty was the subject of a virtual meeting with the Federal Council for Sustainable Development at the end of June. You are asking me why it is not planned to abandon or at least plan an out phase of protecting foreign investment in fossil fuels. We are not considering abandoning it because of the principle of non-discrimination, as I have already said, and, legally, we must follow the process. In addition, Belgium supports modernisation within the framework of the Paris Agreement, which also corresponds to the consensus reached in the Council. In addition to investments in conventional energy, the agreement should also be able to protect future investments in sustainable energy. In light of security of supply and its requirements, it is important to keep these two tracks open. It was also important to work, inter alia, on provisions relating to the right to regulate States. With regard to your question on alignment with the climate targets imposed by Paris and the Green Deal, this is the objective of modernising the Energy Charter Treaty. With regard to your question of abolishing the arbitration mechanism, we also refer to the objective of the Treaty. More specifically, the main provisions of the Treaty relate to investment protection, trade in energy materials and products, transit and dispute settlement. However, these have not been revised since the 1990s. Thus, for the European Union, the two main objectives of the negotiations are: 1. consideration of climate change and the transition to clean energy objectives; 2. the integration of modern investment protection standards with clear definitions and strong guarantees for the right to regulate states. In pursuing these two objectives, the European Union aims precisely to protect itself against cases that would attack measures taken in the context of the implementation of the Green Deal, while providing a clear and predictable legal framework for foreign investors or those European investors investing abroad. The reformed European approach to investment protection is based on two strands: on the one hand, the improvement of the system from a procedural point of view to ensure its transparency, impartiality, independence and coherence, and on the other, the strengthening of investment protection provisions in order to better define the scope of investors' rights and to better guarantee the right to regulate States in order to pursue legitimate public policy objectives. In this way, the European Union pursues medium- and short-term objectives based on the level of ambition such as the inclusion of the Investment Court System in the European Union's bilateral investment agreements, the revision of standards and definitions in the modernization of the Energy Charter Treaty and the establishment of a Multilateral Investment Court at the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL). At the same time, it ensures the long-term compatibility and coherence of these different activities. The ultimate challenge is to achieve an in-depth reform of the system – in the form of a definitive break with ad hoc arbitration – while quickly correcting the old agreements that had been widely interpreted by the world of arbitration. In the context of the negotiations for the modernisation of the Treaty, the European Union focuses on the second part, namely definitions and standards, while keeping open the possibility of working on procedures. By focusing its negotiating power on modernising the definitions and standards of protection, the European Union repeats and delimits the scope of protection granted to investments in the energy sector. In addition, within the framework of the Treaty, it wishes to strengthen the provisions on the right to regulate States and adapt the economic definition in the energy sector, in order to better reflect current challenges and protect renewable energies. You are asking me how I intend to neutralise the survival clause, which extends the effects for 20 years for any State that has withdrawn from the Treaty and whether we are considering the removal of the Energy Charter Treaty. The plurilateral negotiations to modernise it are certainly a complicated process, as you have understood. The large number of parties, the sensitivity of the subjects and the requirement for unanimity are all factors which, combined together, presage extremely long and complex negotiations. However, the European Union and its Member States – which are major and majority players in the Treaty and its modernisation process – hope, through this position, to make their mark. Thus, by pursuing a policy of reform of investment protection at several levels and in a coherent manner, the objective of the European Union and its Member States is to gradually convince the other States of the necessity and added value of these reforms. The growing number of States participating in UNCITRAL's work on the reform of the Investor-State Dispute Settlement Mechanism (ISDS) was a testament to the progress of global thinking. Without being able to ensure the success of the modernisation process right now, it is still essential that the European Union and its Member States commit themselves to it clearly – as they do, for the rest – and sincerely. A credible and open partner position on the part of the European Union and its Member States in these negotiations is absolutely necessary in order to give every chance to the fundamental reform promoted by the European Union. For this reason, the question of a plan B in case of failure of the negotiations was not addressed in the Council. However, the negotiating mandate given to the Commission sets out clear lines on the expected outcome. An evaluation of this process is and will be carried out jointly with the Commission after each round of negotiations. In your penultimate question, you ask me whether I can confirm that the Treaty could be extended to Africa and whether I support this enlargement. This international treaty can of course be extended to any part of the world. In accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and multilateralism – which we believe in and defend – each State is sovereign according to its own foreign policy and may or may not accede to this treaty. For Africa, 17 African States are currently observers: Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Gambia, Kenya, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Swaziland, Tanzania, Uganda and Chad. Three of them called for accession to the Treaty: Burundi, Mauritania and Swaziland. From the outset of the modernisation process, Belgium had informed the secretariat of its opposition in principle to the idea of continuing accession processes while modernization was under way. The European Commission shares this view and recalls it at each meeting. Your last question concerns the assessment that I am making of the risks of arbitration against Belgium that could be caused by investors in fossil or nuclear energy in Belgium and whether Belgium has been the subject of such appeals before arbitration courts on the basis of the Treaty and, if so, how much these proceedings and arbitral decisions have cost the Belgian State. The Energy Charter Treaty has identified 130 past and ongoing cases where treaty clauses have been invoked and arbitration has been or is under way. Article 26 of the Treaty stipulates that the parties in a case are not obliged to communicate to the secretariat of the treaty either the substance of the case or even its existence. It is therefore possible that the treaty and its members would ignore the existence of certain cases if both parties agreed not to disclose them. In these 130 cases, the Belgian State was never attacked. On the other hand, one case concerned a Belgian company: Electrabel against the Hungarian State in 2007. The Hungarian company Dunamenti Erõmu, owned by Electrabel, wanted to increase its tariffs in Budapest but lost against the Hungarian state company MVM, which sold electricity to private individuals. As a result, the rates could not be increased in accordance with Electrobel's request, which was rejected. This case has the merit of proving that it is not always the States that lose against the multinationals. In this case, it was a multinational company that lost against the Hungarian state. The people of Budapest did not see their prices rise and Dunamenti Erõmu, that is, Electrabel, obviously lost some money there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u9	Madam Minister, thank you for your particularly long, comprehensive, very detailed answer. I think that is the longest answer to a question given to me in committee. I'll remember. Having said that, Minister, I can hear you when you refer to the principle of non-discrimination and when you say that we must ensure that all sources of energy (fossil and renewable energy) are on an equal footing. In my opinion, it is at this level that the pack hurts. Quite frankly, if we want to reach the green climate pact, the European Commission's Green Deal, we must achieve carbon neutrality and therefore zero carbon by 2050. It is very clear that we will have to get out of fossil fuels. We therefore ask you, like some 60 civil society organisations in Europe, to align the Treaty with the Energy Charter with the ambitious climate objectives of the Green Deal, but also with the Paris Agreement. As long as we protect investments, as long as we guarantee absolutely astronomical amounts in arbitrations for the protection of fossil fuels, including uranium, we will lose, the planet will lose, and this treaty will remain a poison for the climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u10	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your comprehensive answer, even though you briefly answered my questions; I will certainly continue to follow up on the matter, because there is a new round in September. My focus is a bit different from Mr Cogolati's. You have once again outlined the entire legal framework and the process of modernising investment protection. I fully agree with you that it is an en-en-story at this stage and not the story of Mr Cogolati, in which investments in fossil fuels should no longer be protected at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u11	Madam Minister, on 30 May 2020 the annual report on the progress of the SDGs was published. Belgium is ranked 11 in the ranking. Belgium scores poorly in a number of categories and objectives. In an unchanged policy, Belgium will only achieve 4 of the 17 SDGs. So we're really not on schedule. Even worse, this report reflects the pre-corona crisis situation. We all know that the corona crisis is a relapse of the SDGs. We see everywhere that the most vulnerable are hit hardest. I'm really worried about that. I am concerned that the savings and competitive logic put us back in the age of social inequality and that the climate crisis is not being properly addressed. The recommendations are very clear. We must, of course, put out fires in the short term, but the UN calls on us to set out the long-term rules, to protect our citizens, to create a strategy for sustainable development. It'll only be harder than before the corona crisis. Madam Secretary, I have three questions for you. What actions do you take to ensure that Belgium can maximise the 17 SDGs by 2030? What are we going to do to reverse this negative trend in a positive direction? I am referring to Objective 12: responsible consumption and production, Objective 13: climate action and Objective 14: living in water. What efforts will you make in the short and long term to integrate this into a new federal plan for sustainable development? I have read the draft of the UN Ministerial Declaration. It points out the urgency to increase ambition for the next ten years and that a number of targets will have to be adjusted. It calls on all governments to do this in a very ambitious way. What is Belgium doing with this ambitious update so that the last ten years of implementation will lead to a better future until 2030? How do you commit yourself to implementing the 2030 agenda in a verifiable manner for Parliament and through structured and organised dialogue with civil society?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u12	Mrs Creemers, I apologize: my answer is in French, but it will be addressed to you in Dutch. I will express it more slowly so that it is understandable to you and the translators. Thank you for your interest in this important issue of the implementation of the SDGs in Belgium. I will begin by commenting on the report you mention and then answering your questions. The Sustainable Development Solutions Network report is part of many international reports that assess Belgium's situation with regard to sustainable development goals. More recently, on 22 June, Eurostat published a report on this subject as well. In Belgium, the Federal Office of the Plan also regularly publishes assessments of indicators for monitoring sustainable development objectives on the Indicators.be website. We try to inform stakeholders about this through SDGS.be. As you know, the conclusions drawn depend on the selected indicators, the evaluation methodologies applied and the choices made to make these assessments easy to communicate. All these numerous studies are based on different indicators, although they attempt to be consistent with the United Nations list. Even if Belgium is compared to other countries and is relatively well placed in the implementation of the SDGs, it is nevertheless clear that efforts still need to be made because we will not reach many targets by 2030 with the policy unchanged. In 2019, Belgium was ranked 16th in the Sustainable Development Solutions Network report. It is important to know, therefore, that since we are in the eleventh position in 2020, things are moving in the right direction, but there is still a lot of work to be done. More interesting than this ranking, the report provides a study of the impact of the VOCID-19 crisis on SDGs. Finally, the assessment of crisis management is based on three indicators and these are not favourable for Belgium. We will therefore have to assess these aspects with all the colleagues concerned. To take into account the impact of the VOCID-19 on sustainable development policy, I took the initiative to ask stakeholders in the Sustainable Development Act, the Federal Institute for Sustainable Development, the Federal Council for Sustainable Development and the Federal Bureau of the Plan, to think together about how sustainable development could be taken into account in recovery policies. The Federal Council on Sustainable Development (CFDD) has already issued an opinion on this subject and is preparing a second opinion. The Federal Institute for Sustainable Development has commissioned a study and will be able to feed into the work of the Interdepartmental Conference on Sustainable Development, which is currently preparing the preliminary draft federal sustainable development plan. The Interdepartmental Conference on Sustainable Development prepares this document so that it can be adopted quickly by the next government, as provided for in the law. Secondly, Belgium worked with its European colleagues for an ambitious ministerial declaration. We have worked closely with a few other countries to draw attention to the fact that some targets expire in 2020 and 2025 and need to be reformulated while maintaining a high ambition. In Belgium's first intervention, our country reiterated the importance of ensuring the participation of stakeholders. This reminder has been mentioned. Starting in 2015, we put in place an approach to integrate stakeholders into the implementation of the SDGs. We have a very long tradition in this area. In response to the fear expressed by civil society, in the face of the organisation of a high level political virtual forum, Belgium has signed a declaration ensuring the involvement of stakeholders, since 2015. We have also tried to provide a wide range of information on SDGS.be, which I mentioned earlier, by distributing a brochure to tens of thousands of copies, where each year we identify SDG's Voices, ambassadors for sustainable development, with a specific role for their target group. We also tried to influence federal policies by looking at the gap between targets and the situation in 2007. We have asked all government colleagues to respond to this, and we have informed them. Administrations have also been heavily involved. All these initiatives are communicated through the reports of the Interdepartmental Conference on Sustainable Development, which are available on the sustainable development.be website and sent once a year to Parliament. Finally, on 14 July the Court of Auditors published a report on the state of preparedness of Belgium in the implementation of the SDGs, which I hope will feed the debate with Parliament on this subject. Parliament's action towards the SDGs will thus be structured, as I hope. Finally, last but not least, a structured approach with stakeholders has existed for a very long time through the Federal Council on Sustainable Development, with which I meet very regularly. Many opinions have been published. Each year I report on their follow-up in committee, and I also report on this follow-up from my point of view to the General Assembly of the Federal Council on Sustainable Development. I am of course at your disposal to explore all these aspects in future questions that you might ask me. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u13	Madam Minister, after a year here in Parliament, it is perfectly possible to follow your interpretation in French. So you do not have to worry about that at all. Thank you for your answers. It is very good that all the parties concerned are currently working on their opinions and that preparations are being implemented quickly. Nevertheless, I would ask you not to wait for another government and take action. You can perfectly prepare all kinds of things together with your services, so that things can be recorded very quickly in the autumn. Many things that need to be done are a competence of the regions and I note that inter-ministerial cooperation is a good thing. However, the federal level must take the lead in this matter. Work is continuing at the regional level. That level doesn't have to wait for a new government. So I would like to call on you to put the SDGs really first when a re-launch plan is drawn up. I am therefore looking at you to do so in the coming summer. After all, you yourself note that we are at the back of the group. When we look at the way in which the OECD countries reacted to the COVID-19 crisis, we see that together with Spain, the United Kingdom and Italy we are dwindling behind the index. So we do have some work to do. I also hear that you would like Parliament to be involved in the dossier in a structural manner. I therefore propose that we return to the issue in the autumn and work very hard together at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u14	Madam Minister, I would like to return to a question I asked you a few weeks ago about the financing of environmental movements. From your reply at that time, I understand that because the government has no full powers, you cannot make financial commitments to environmental movements. I certainly want to understand that argument, but if I look deeper into the dossier, I can see that the fact that you recognise the environmental domes at the moment has no financial implications whatsoever for the future. You can therefore perfectly recognise BBL, BRAL Brussel, IE Bruxelles et Wallonie as an environmental umbrella without allocating their structural financial resources. If the reason is that you do not want to make a financial commitment because we are in a time of financial uncertainty, then I want to understand that. I don't approve, but I want to understand. I do not understand why you do not recognise them as environmental domes and why you are not taking any steps at the moment to ease the deadlines in the procedure, or why you do not withdraw a number of deadlines, so that a government with full authority in the autumn can review whether it wants to grant structural subsidies to environmental organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u15	Mrs Creemers, unfortunately, my answer is always the same. It is true that there are important financial consequences involved in the recognition process. It is up to the new government to decide whether or not to change the procedure and file, given the important financial implications. My associate can confirm that, too. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u16	Madam Secretary, we didn't understand your associate. Can he get a little closer to the microphone?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u17	It's a five-year recognition. That is why the decision which will or will not be taken is a decision that must be taken by the next government. As the Minister said, there are important financial implications for the next government, not for this government anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u18	Those are other signals than the signals I belong to the environmental domes. They say that recognition has no financial implications, but if your employee claims the opposite, then we certainly have to do something about it in the next legislature, because recognition is nothing more or less than to acknowledge the work they are doing as a umbrella. The financial consequences are independent of that. I keep thinking it's a very strange file. I propose that we come back to this at the first questioning session in September, because that is how environmental movements and domes are determined. Whether they are recognised or not, they have a number of deadlines that they cannot meet now, because if they are not now recognised as an environmental umbrella, then they cannot submit a grant dossier, to which yes or no can be replied. They're stuck. They are in uncertainty. I can only regret that, but we will come back to it in the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u19	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last week an alliance was formed at European level, the European Clean Hydrogen Alliance. In doing so, the European Commission intends to implement specific strategies for energy integration and hydrogen. The main aim is to develop renewable hydrogen that would be produced using wind and solar energy. That hydrogen alliance would especially want to work together throughout the chain and put hydrogen technology further on track. This would be done together with a number of leading companies, including civil society, national and regional ministers, and possibly with the help of the European Investment Bank. The ambitions are quite large, considering what they would like to do with hydrogen over the next few years. A certain growth path has also been set for producing 1 million tonnes of renewable hydrogen by 2024. This should continue to grow to 10 million tonnes by 2030, so that it can be rolled out on a large scale. Madam Minister, I have repeatedly asked questions about hydrogen in this committee. What is the government's position on the launch of that alliance and its ambitions? Decisions have been taken on the National Energy and Climate Plan. However, if this is added to the whole, how does the government feel about it? What role will Belgium play in meeting the alliance's ambition? How do you guys see that? How will Belgium behave? Will it act as an early adopter and ensure that we can shape the direction as soon as possible and will Belgium want to be a pioneer for hydrogen? Or will Belgium rather adopt a wait-and-see attitude? Not insignificant in the debate we have had in committee over the past period, when very often we have talked about the necessary energy needs in the years to come, is there any consideration in those calculations of the need for energy to generate this green hydrogen in the years to come? To what extent is a margin provided to generate this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u20	Mr President, Madam Minister, this is an extension of my question on "the development of synthetic gas for gas-fired power plants" (No. 55002610C). A few months ago, we discussed the issue of hydrogen production. I would like to put this issue back on the table because the European Commission has broad ambitions for the role of hydrogen in the decarbonisation of the European economy. Indeed, it is the steel industry, which is a major producer of CO2, that the Commission intends to revolutionise in terms of energy. For this heavy industry sector, green electricity alone is insufficient. Hydrogen, on the other hand, can provide the necessary power for industrial processes. This gas is a clean fuel that can be obtained by electrolysis from green electricity when the production is very strong, so that the whole process is decarbonized. Nevertheless, so far the use of hydrogen in the energy mix is very marginal. Of course, the question of price comes into play. So, as Commission Vice-President Frans Timmermans says, "for hydrogen to be an affordable source of energy, we need transport and storage infrastructure, and we need a market." More specifically, by 2024, the European Commission plans to switch from 6 GW to 40 GW by 2030. To achieve this goal, it is clear that an effort by all countries will be necessary. Minister, what is the status of Belgium in terms of hydrogen production? What is the federal government currently doing to get on the European energy train? How do you intend to place Belgium among the pilot nations in this sector of the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u21	Mr Van Lommel, at all levels in Belgium, both federally and regionally, it is recognised that hydrogen can play an important role in the future (...). This is also apparent from the NEKP. Belgium already has an effective role in various consultation bodies on hydrogen, both intra-Belgian and Benelux, at pentalateral level and at European level. For example, Belgium recently signed the Joint Political Declaration of the Pentalateral Energy Forum on the role of hydrogen to decarbonise the energy system in Europe. In general terms, the government therefore welcomes the launch of these European ambitions within the framework of the Green Deal. The approach of the European Clean Hydrogen Alliance, in which governments, industry and civil society organisations will work together to realise concrete projects, seems an interesting way to facilitate the necessary investments in renewable hydrogen. In reply to your second and third questions, I can say that the hydrogen strategy of the European Commission was only recently published on 8 July. At the moment we are fully analysing the published strategy. On this basis, we will be able to identify the attitude Belgium will adopt in the process and what concrete role our country will play in meeting the objectives of the alliance. We note that the Belgian industry and many Belgian technology companies are already ambitious to further develop hydrogen technologies, as witnessed by the growing number of initiatives from the sector. In this context, I would like to mention that Belgium already published a call for expressions of interest in the framework of IPCEI in March, after which about 20 project applications were submitted. Green hydrogen is hydrogen produced from renewable energy sources by electrolytes based on electricity. The potential of producing such electricity from renewable energy sources is relatively limited in Belgium. Moreover, the conversion of electricity to hydrogen is accompanied by a significant loss of conversion. We must therefore ensure that we use electricity from renewable energy sources first and foremost directly where this can be done rather than converting it directly into hydrogen. Mr Vicar, the answer to your question is as follows. Hydrogen production in Belgium has so far been relatively limited. You heard it and understood it. Grey hydrogen is produced only in the industrial sector, i.e. refineries, the steel industry and the chemical industry. The term "grey hydrogen" refers to hydrogen produced from fossil fuels. Hydrogen production by electrolysis from electricity from renewable energy sources or "green hydrogen" is still limited in Belgium, as is hydrogen produced from fossil fuels with carbon capture. The European Commission's hydrogen strategy was only recently published on 8 July. We're analyzing it. On the basis of this, we will be able to identify the attitude Belgium will adopt in this process and the concrete role it will play in this process. In any event, the Belgian Federal Government, in collaboration with the Regions, is already playing a very active role in the various advisory bodies on hydrogen, both at intra-Belgian and Benelux, pentalateral and European level. We would like to give you an overview of some important developments. I said that earlier in Dutch and I apologize for repeating it. At the end of May Belgium signed the Joint Political Declaration of the Pentalateral Energy Forum on the role of hydrogen to decarbonise the energy system in Europe, in which the countries of the Pentalateral Energy Forum expressed their commitment to hydrogen development. Belgium will hold the Benelux Presidency in 2021 and, for the time being, we are in charge of the initial preparations for this and we are actively working on a programme and an action plan. I would remind you that in October 2019 the Energy Transition Fund published a call for project proposals for grants for the year 2020. In February, a total of 42 proposals were received, 15 of which received grants. Of these 15 projects, grants were granted to a few projects in the field of hydrogen and energy storage. Finally, our SPF Economy, SMEs, Middle Classes and Energy, in close cooperation with the Regions, launched in early March a call for expressions of interest in the context of a possible future important project of European interest on hydrogen. We have currently received 20 project applications that are being evaluated. We note that the Belgian industrial sector and many Belgian technology companies are very ambitious with regard to the further development of hydrogen technologies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u22	Madam Secretary, you agree that hydrogen will have an important role to play in the future. You say that Belgium has an active role in the consultations and refers to the pentalateral consultations and the agreement on which I asked a question a few weeks ago. You say that you are still fully analysing the strategy, which has just been published. To what extent did Belgium take part in the creation of this European alliance? I note that there are more and more initiatives from the sector and that there are project applications. That's good. However, after that good news, you have completed your presentation with the biggest problem that Belgium will prevent and perhaps make sure that we miss the train, namely the very limited capacity of electricity for the production of green hydrogen. This will put the brakes on a further roll-out of green hydrogen in the coming years and that will be the Achilles heel for using that kind of green energy. Madam Minister, you are actually saying that you do want to, but you cannot, because we are not going to have enough green electricity to allow the roll-out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers that satisfy me. I am pleased to hear the number of ambitious industrial projects in Belgium in this area. You know my insistence on synthetic gases. To read the report of the Plan Bureau, we will not be able to generate enough energy here for all of our needs by 2050. Therefore, we will have to continue to import energy in the form of molecules - ideally, synthetic gas. As a result, we will have to depend on it. It might as well make Belgium a technological leader. In this sense, it is extremely important that the government invest now in research to grant patents to our companies. In this way, our country will maintain leadership in this area. We also ask you to encourage our industrialists to embark on such projects. As you said, electricity generation in Belgium is limited by the size of the territory and our control of the surface in the North Sea. However, this does not prevent us from remaining technologically dominant. Finally, we are facing a 32 MW project, but we are talking about 40 GW on a European scale – a capacity 1000 times higher. Therefore, Madam Minister, there is still a lot of work to be done. Thank you for taking these aspects into account and wish you a good day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, in its recently published report "The Global E-waste Monitor 2020", the United Nations Global Observatory for Electronic Waste revealed that the amount of electronic waste – electronic chips, computer cards, electrical resistors, lamps, flat screens, etc. – generated every year on a global scale was constantly evolving. Estimated at 44.4 million tonnes of waste in 2014, this amount was estimated at 53.6 million tonnes in 2019. According to the Global Electronic Waste Observatory, approximately 74.4 million tonnes of waste could be generated in 2030. You are aware that the release of this waste into the environment is the cause of a major source of pollution. These are often composed of toxic or dangerous substances – mercury, brominated flame retardant, chlorofluorocarbons, hydrochlorofluorocarbons, etc. – which are likely to have a negative impact on the environment, climate and human health. Minister, my questions are as follows. One of the factors contributing to the increase in the amount of electronic waste generated each year in the world – and therefore in our country – is the planned obsolescence of certain products. In 2017, you said, following the publication of the DRC Environment report, and I quote you: "Planned obsolescence: Belgian consumer protection policies and measures", and you said: "actively design future product standards setting criteria for repairability." Would we be able to know what is happening today? Finally, on 24 April 2020, the EAC, the CCS Consumption and the CFDD delivered an opinion on planned obsolescence. Could we have your feedback on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u25	Mr President, honourable Member, the conclusion of the study was that the measures will have a greater effect if they are applied throughout the European Union. The three measures identified to promote reparation were as follows. Firstly, to require manufacturers to display the degree of repairability on the basis of an objective evaluation methodology to be developed. Secondly, requiring manufacturers to display the duration of their commitment to supply spare parts. And thirdly, make the availability of spare parts, product plans and tools necessary for repair mandatory with a time of delivery, a duration of availability and a reasonable price. As regards the first point, you should be aware that a general standard on product repair has recently been published at European level. The Working Group on the Standardization of Home Appliances is studying how the methodology can be made specific to home appliances. The Commission conducted a study to explore possible policy options. The administration is very actively following these initiatives and is also actively contributing to discussions and activities on this topic. We expect the new European College to take action within the framework of the Circular Economy Action Plan. For example, the development of a repairability index. As far as the second and third points I mentioned above are concerned, there are already legal requirements. For a number of products such as televisions, refrigerators, washing machines, and others, Ecodesign legislation requires the availability of spare parts and repair information. Spare parts must be delivered within 15 days from the date of application. Belgium supported these requests during the European procedure. These requirements are intended to be extended to all products already covered by ecodesign measures. This should be included in the new work plan for ecodesign, which is expected at the end of this year. In addition, the Circular Economy Action Plan proposes to extend the scope of ecodesign requirements to all types of products, such as textiles or furniture. The repairability of these can also be studied for regulation. With regard to your second question, the opinion states first of all that the councils consider it a priority to extend the life of products in a context of sustainable development. They are in favour of defining the concept of planned obsolescence and also providing for sanctions. While being very attentive to the implications of this decision, and in particular as regards the link with European legislation, the Council recommends in particular: to consider including this concept in the Economic Code within the framework of consumer protection; to make available to the consumer all necessary information; to participate in the European negotiations on the produced passport; to participate actively in the discussions on the definition of a new scope of the ecodesign regulation in order to include the concepts of repairability and availability of spare parts; to set up a working group on taxation in order to promote this whole problem. As you know, Mr Senesael, this subject is of particular interest to me. I have worked very intensively to strengthen the federal action to support the development of a circular economy in Belgium. I share the priorities mentioned by the councils. With regard to the responsibilities of the Federal Department of the Environment, I can assure you that I attach great importance to this. In this context, my administration is actively participating in the European discussion on the product passport and the Ecodesign Directive, which will intensify with the Green Deal, since the Green Deal identifies product policy as a major focus of work. On the other points, I will continue to make my colleagues, including the Minister of Economy, aware of the value of including a definition of premature or planned obsolescence in the Economic Code. I will also contact my Finance colleague to draw his attention to the issue of taxation and the possibility of making efficient use of it. I invite you to also ask them about all these issues and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u26	Madam Minister, I thank you for the interesting and comprehensive answers that you have just given us, because I believe you have provided a good summary of the situation. Like you, I am very concerned about this subject. Moreover, you are aware that, some time ago, I initiated a motion for a resolution to encourage and promote the circular economy. I note that you have continued with your administration, which I also thank, the necessary efforts in this direction. Three moments seem essential to me. First of all, it is important to see how the repairability index will evolve. Then, the transversality, which you have mentioned correctly, with the Ministers of Finance and Economy is part of a work that you co-manage between you. Finally, it will be very interesting to see, at the end of the year, what the concept of ecodesign is. Perhaps at the beginning of 2021, with you or your successor, we will be able to take stock of the progress of this matter, which is of particular interest to me. I would also like to thank you for your contribution and your involvement in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u27	Madam Secretary, you took part in the video conference between North Seas Energy Cooperation and the European Commission on Wednesday 6 July. Ministers stressed the importance of offshore wind energy in the context of the 2030 and beyond energy targets. The intention is to have an installed capacity by 2050 that is ten times higher than today's. For this, the annual growth rate of 3 gigawatts should increase sharply. We understand that the energy ministers and the European Commissioner for Energy, Kadri Simson, have stressed the importance that countries can set up multinational joint and hybrid projects. In a joint statement, ministers called on the European Commission to develop a framework for such projects, examining and removing the various obstacles. Madam Minister, for the questions I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u28	Mr President, in reply to your first question, Belgium has been one of the pioneers of the North Sea consultation since 2009. (...) the forerunner of the NSEC. We also fully support the joint declaration approved by all countries and the European Commission. In reply to your second question, I can tell you that the regulators and the system operators are also represented in the NSEC. Regular consultations are held with all stakeholders, market players, consumers and NGOs. The European Commission also plays a major role. All parties are therefore represented in the initiative. In reply to your third question, I would point out that Belgium has, of course, only a limited space in the North Sea for the installation of wind farms. From the outset, therefore, Belgium has been working on cooperation and developing offshore wind energy together in order to achieve a scaling-up. Belgium has considerable know-how and an industrial and logistical sector in this area. With the recent recruitment of the Northwester 2 wind farm, Belgium is at the top of the world in the field of offshore wind energy. In reply to your fourth question, I note that, as I mentioned in my previous answers, the Belgian industrial players are actively involved in viewing joint projects and connections of wind farms. There are several European funds that developers can use, such as Horizon, Connecting Europe Facility, European Investment Bank investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u29	Mr President, Minister, it is true that we are pioneers in offshore wind energy and its development. I'd be happy to confirm that. With the proposed offshore wind energy development plan, we intend to have four gigawatts of offshore capacity by 2030. The sooner we, of course, have and can produce wind energy and green electricity, the better that is for us. The Belgian part will in principle be full in the North Sea at that time. You also pointed that out. There is only a limited space available for offshore developments. At the same time, you said that in recent years we have built up a very important know-how. We have played a pioneering role in this. I believe that we should focus on this know-how and turn it into an export product. We must work on international cooperation so that the expertise the companies have built up in Belgium can also be used and used abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u30	Minister, the report of the German Federal Agency for the Environment (FPAS) reveals that the vast majority of German children and adolescents aged 3 to 17 have too many perfluorinated and polyfluorinated chemicals (PFAS) in their blood. These substances, used in the manufacture of textile products, food packaging made of paper and paperboard, cosmetics, kitchenware, containers, fire-extinguishing foams, etc., are considered to be long-lived pollutants. In Europe, these can be found in drinking water, air, agricultural land, terrestrial and aquatic organisms. Scientists estimated their half-life – the time needed to degrade half of their initial quantity – to be four or five years. Once ingested by a living being, such substances persist and accumulate. In humans, this accumulation occurs mainly in the blood, liver, kidneys and adipose tissues. PFAS is a global source of environmental pollution. In addition, they pose a large number of risks to human health: contamination of breast milk, decreased fetal development, increased cholesterol levels, testicular and kidney cancer, liver dysfunction, hypothyroidism, obesity, reduced hormone levels, delayed puberty, etc. According to the German Federal Agency for the Environment, 20% of the blood samples of German children and adolescents exceed the assessment value of PFAS toxicology, which determines the possibility of adverse health consequences. In addition, the European Food Safety Authority, EFSA, notes that a significant part of the European population exceeds the VRT toxicological index by eight nanograms per kilogram of body weight. Minister, can we have your point of view on this issue? Do you have any information about the level of PFAS in the blood of our fellow citizens? While a few individual products with PFAS demonstrate their need, several countries are currently working to ban several others at European level. Are you considering implementing actions at national level in this direction? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u31	Mr President, PFAS are indeed substances of concern. They form a very large group of more than 4,000 substances on the world market. The scientific data available for some of these substances and their many similarities justify action on the entire PFAS group in order to avoid undesirable substitution with other PFAS. From a regulatory point of view, I consider that the most effective level to take this problem into account, as far as my competences are concerned, is the European and international level. I believe that this is a problem that deserves determined, comprehensive and coordinated action. We are therefore following very closely the measures under development. Belgium – you can tell – has been very proactive in this issue. [[With regard to European action, the federal level and Belgium as a whole have been involved, for example, in the following four initiatives: firstly, the prohibition of productions placed on the market and the use of PFOS and PFOA, two of the most well-known members of this family, by their inclusion in the regulations on persistent organic pollutants which provide only for specific time-limited exemptions; secondly, the support, in June 2019, of the Council conclusions, Towards a Sustainable Chemicals Policy Strategy of the Union, asking the Commission to draw up an action plan to eliminate all non-essential uses of PFAS; thirdly, the development of elements for a strategy on PFAS at European level, which has resulted in a decision that the Interdepartmental Conference Environment Health of 3 October 2019, in the form of a document and a letter to the Commission to draw up an action plan to eliminate all non-essential uses of PFAS; thirdly, the development of elements for a strategy on PFAS at European level, which has resulted in a decision that the Interdepartmental Conference Environment Health of 3 October 2019, in the form of a document and a letter intended for the Commission to draw up the Commission'sup of the Commission'sup of the Commission'sup of the Commission'sup of the Commission'ssssssup-introvessssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss in the s in the s ins inss ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins ins in]] I would also mention that my administration is active in several expert groups at European level, in order to develop the necessary knowledge base and to evaluate the proposal for measures concerning these substances, including restrictions via the REACH Regulation, including the forthcoming restrictions on PFAS in fire foams proposed by the Commission and the general restriction that the Netherlands will shortly propose. It is also important to mention the recent European Parliament resolution of 10 July 2020 calling for the gradual abandonment of non-essential uses of PFAS and the acceleration of the development of alternatives. PFAS have long-distance transport potential. At the international level, Belgium has supported, since 2013, the identification of perfluorinated chemicals as a matter of concern within the framework of the Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management. We have also supported the need to go further at the global level, in order to ensure that efforts are made, in particular, to collect and exchange information on these products and to replace them with safer alternatives. In addition, a global PFAS group, supported by OECD and UNEP, was established. Belgium is actively following the work of this group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u32	Madam Minister, if there is a reproach that cannot be made to you, it is good to question the quality of your answers. I thank you for this comprehensive response, which has raised my interest and provided me with a number of points of reflection that I will look at. Indeed, other initiatives could perhaps still be taken at the level of Belgium, even if you have been involved, with your administration, in a concrete and effective way in this matter. Depending on what you have listed and the schedule that awaits us (2025-2030), initiatives or contributions may still be possible. I suggest that you discuss this at the beginning of the year and thank you again for your qualitative response.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u33	Minister, the likely decline by 2030 in the production capacity of countries supplying more than half of the oil consumed by the European Union is likely to lead to significant supply constraints. Indeed, the European Union is likely to experience a contraction in the total volume of its current sources of oil supply of up to 8% between 2019 and 2030, according to an analysis by the think tank Shift Project, based mainly on estimates of the future global crude oil production capacity of the Norwegian specialised economic intelligence agency Rystad Energy. As the study points out, the maximum potential rates of this contraction are higher than the rate of decline in oil consumption in the European Union since 2010. Russia's production and that of all the countries of the former USSR, which supply more than 40% of the European Union's oil, seem to have entered a systemic decline in 2019. Africa's oil production (more than 10% of the European Union's supplies) is also expected to decline until at least 2030. The risk to the future supplies of the European Union is compounded, on the one hand, by the extreme volatility of crude oil prices over the past decade – which complicates and renders the investment policies of oil tankers uncertain – and, on the other hand, by the strong growth in demand expected from Asia and Africa. While severe constraints on world oil production may directly or indirectly affect the European Union over the decade, the occurrence of these constraints appears to be inexorable beyond 2030. Minister, have you been aware of this prospective prudential analysis of the Shift Project? If so, do you share his conclusions? Do you intend to promote them to the European Commission, while reaffirming Belgium's support for the Green Deal and calling for the rapid implementation of its proposed climate policies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u34	Mr President, I am not aware of such an analysis, but I will obviously be happy to look for it and to go through it. With regard to your second question, of course, we are promoting to the European Commission, reaffirming our support for the Green Deal, the increasingly necessary energy transition to renewable energy. It should be noted, however, that the oil sector has invested a great deal in recent years by introducing new projects that include renewable energy. This sector is therefore undergoing a transition in order to achieve with us the European objectives which we have set ourselves in respect of our environment. All these steps must be encouraged. I encourage them. I support them and we all try to work in the same direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answers. Of course, I invite you to read this interesting study, which concludes that global warming and oil peaks are two cumulative dangers. The issue of the oil peak is another strong reason for accelerating the transition. In a way, global oil production works a bit like a broom car for climate policies. If these policies fail, then we will necessarily be in serious difficulties, which will go beyond the strict stakes of global warming. This release of fossil energy must take place without delay, you are convinced as we are. It must be done in an ambitious manner within the framework of the public policies and measures proposed in the Green Deal, which we expect to be implemented as quickly and as ambitious as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u36	Mr President, Madam Minister, I come back to the question of the dumping of nuclear waste, which had made a real outcry in the province of Luxembourg. Recently, you also made contact with the various mayors who were concerned about it. I would like to highlight this initiative of direct contact with them. But I would like to go back to the question for different elements. I'm putting it in context. On 15 April 2020, ONDRAF launched its famous public survey on the long-term management of radioactive waste with high activity and/or long life conditioning. It is following the statements of your Luxembourg counterpart that many local elected officials have learned that their entity would eventually be affected by the organization's projects. Since then, discussions have taken place on the extension of the survey and its objectives. I do not intend to go back to that, but rather to ask you a technical question which concerns the province of Luxembourg more specifically. In the words of hydrogeologist Jean-Luc Frérotte, who had spoken in the press in the weeks following the statements of the Grand-Ducal Minister, the clay layers (argilites) mentioned by the ONDRAF report have in the Gaume characteristics of thickness, discontinuity and heterogeneity "such that it is impossible to store nuclear waste there under the conditions required for their security and sustainable isolation from the environment". In addition, the clay layers to the south of the province are alternated with several levels of sandy, sandy, limestone aquifer layers, making the Gaumois subsoil a kind of millew sponge completely contraindicated for any underground storage. The conclusion of Mr. Frérotte's analysis is that the Gaume – because of the characteristics of its basement – would de facto be excluded from potential landfill sites. Minister, can you confirm to me that the characteristics of the clay layers in the basement are a condition for the potential for nuclear waste landfills? If it buys, do you have more information about the quantification of these characteristics? Is there a maximum ceiling of thickness, discontinuity or heterogeneity for clay layers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u37	Madam Member, like you, I find it quite surprising that my colleague, the Luxembourg Minister, has thus proposed a series of possible locations for the final disposal of radioactive waste, also near the Grand-Ducal border. But be it! I can only leave his choice to offer us locations that we would not have thought of when it is not on the agenda. I'll explain. I would remind you that while ONDRAF has proposed a national policy for the long-term management of high-level radioactive waste and/or long-term radioactive waste, which, as you said, are the wastes referred to as B and C, namely the principle of geological storage in the context of this decision-making process, which should lead to the implementation of a long-term solution for such waste, ONDRAF has also pointed out that the choice of location of geological storage is neither on the agenda nor on the subject of public consultation. It is therefore impossible to provide a precise geographical delimitation of potential storage areas. The first stage of this proposal is limited to the principle of geological storage on Belgian territory, without indicating the host rock at this stage. Secondly, it is carried out in successive stages with consultation with the public at each stage, within a period of decades. Moreover, the press release of 13 May 2020 by ONDRAF is very clear about this: "The decision requested is the very first decision-making step, namely what Belgium intends to do with its waste. Proposals for the concrete plan, where, when and how this should be done will be the subject of decisions proposed at later stages. ONDRAF confirms not to be the author of the map circulating in certain media and indicating potential places." I make an incise: the almost certain source of this map is probably the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. "ONDRAF recalls that the process of selecting a storage location is not on the agenda of this consultation proposal. The environmental impact assessment accompanying the plan mentions only host rocks which, on the basis of international practice, could theoretically be taken into account for storage in Belgium." This is therefore a general description of Belgian geology. I note in passing that the person you mentioned also mentioned in the press that "as early as 2018, in various press articles, the director of ONDRAF already clearly announced that a consultation process would be launched with all stakeholders, with the choice of a site around 2035, after the necessary investigation studies, the obtaining of legal authorizations around 2050 and the beginning of the burial of the first waste around 2070". As a specialist, this person you quote is said to have been riddled "by the counter-truths and the emotion provoked by the Grand-Ducal Minister, whose words have been relayed by the press and greatly amplified by the political world". This person's last comment: "ONDRAF's file is a really excellent scientific and pedagogical record" and he adds that he has rarely seen such good ones. These are the words he makes as an independent expert, they are not mine. I'll bring them back to resituate the frame. Indeed, for more than 40 years, ONDRAF, in collaboration with the Nuclear Energy Study Centre, SCK-CEN, and national and international partners, has been studying the behaviour of clays as host rocks for storage. This research shows that clays have adequate storage characteristics and that these characteristics are not negatively affected by the heat released from the waste. This is also what ONDRAF communicated in its clarification of 13 May 2020, which I have just travelled with you. According to ONDRAF: "Geology, site, mode of implementation and timing are not known, so the description and assessment of environmental impacts must, at this stage, be carried out at a general level. Environmental impacts will be assessed more and more in detail as the solution develops. Such assessments, including, where appropriate, public consultations on cross-border effects, will be organised in due course, respecting existing national and international taxation." Citing the International Atomic Energy Agency, ONDRAF also states that a host formation and its geological environment must have certain characteristics in order to house a geological storage facility. For geological storage in the gallery, ONDRAF notes: "First, the depth and dimensions of the host formation must be sufficient. Uniform, easily characterizable host formations in geological environments whose evolution can be reasonably evaluated are usually preferred. Secondly, host formations which do not have a priori structural characteristics conducive to the preferential transport of radionuclides are preferred. Thirdly, the mechanical priorities of the host training must enable the safe construction, operation and closure of the storage facility and ensure its long-term stability. Similarly, its thermal and thermomechanical properties must be such that the plant can accommodate heated waste without too much stress. The characteristics of the host formation and its geological environment must contribute to limiting the movement of water in the storage facility so as not to compromise the containment and isolation of waste. The physical and geochemical characteristics of the host formation and its geological and hydro-geological environment must contribute to limiting the release of radionuclides and chemical contaminants by the storage system or, at least, to curb their migration to the biosphere. Finally, the host formation should not be affected by future phenomena such as seismicity, volcanoism, climate change, so that the containment and isolation capacity of the storage system is preserved over the long term. However, these are only very general features, usually allowing for pre-selection of potential host training and its environment. It is the protection offered by the storage system as a whole, i.e. the combination of waste, working barriers, host geological formation and its geological environment that is decisive." Of course, it is the result of the project authorization process that will confirm whether or not the characteristics of the subsoil and the host rock permit the burial of radioactive waste; this framework depends on the Federal Nuclear Control Agency and on the powers of my colleague, the Minister of the Interior, as well as on the application file to be submitted by ONDRAF. As I have already told you, today we are very far from being at this stage. The choice of location of geological storage is neither on the agenda nor the subject of the consultation which took place from 15 April to 13 June 2020. The site will be selected at a later stage. But you have already understood, from the technical answers provided by the International Atomic Energy Agency taken from ONDRAF, what the technical characteristics are, and we can already have an idea, based on that, of all the precautions that are taken in the context of this very long dossier, which will last decades. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u38	Madam Minister, thank you for the various technical elements that you have brought to your response today. However, I would like to repeat to you, as I told you a first time, that the famous map that has circulated throughout the social networks (...), is not a map that emanates from the ONDRAF but was probably created by citizens on the basis of the annexes available in the ONDRAF survey. What I mean by that is that, if one often comes back with the question of possible places and in particular the Gaume, it is because the Gaume was explicitly cited in one of the annexes of the official ONDRAF investigation. I read it myself. That's why this map may have appeared at some point. I understand what you are saying, namely that this investigation is supposed to endorse the principle of geological burial or not and that there is no question of places at this stage. You have expressed it several times. However, since possible places are included in these annexes, this raises questions and I think that at some point this will have to be clarified externally, not only here in committee but also by other interventions. One can only worry about whether this is determined in advance. Your services will have to re-state it because it raises a relatively high question. I don't know if you've ever been able to do the topo of the results of the public survey conducted by ONDRAF. What attitude will you take if the majority of respondents reject the principle of geological burial? You will no longer be able to continue in this direction. What type of landfill will therefore be debated in Parliament if the voices have been expressed against geological burial?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u39	The clarifications you talk about potential sites and the origin of maps must come from ONDRAF. It is the latter who pursues this policy and initiates this consultation. Clarifications will also follow the evolution of this issue and our national policy, as well as the various stages of public consultation, which will be carried out each time on the basis of a file prepared by ONDRAF. Your second question concerns my reaction. I can't react alone, it's the government that has to respond. It will have to react when ONDRAF has integrated all the interventions of those who participated in the survey. A document will then be drawn up and will have to be prepared for a draft royal decree to be submitted to the government. I am not in a position to tell you how the ONDRAF will draw up this document, and what will be the appearance and configuration of the draft royal decree that will result from it. We'll talk about it again when these documents come into my hands. It seems that we will be able to dispose of it in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u40	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 6 July last, WWF and 39 Belgian experts sent an open letter to the authorities of the country on the occasion of World Zoonoses Day. In their letter, which is specifically addressed to your public health FPS counterpart and yourself, they call on the various governments of the country to combat deforestation and the trade in wild animals in order to prevent pandemics and the emergence of new zoonoses. According to these experts, deforestation and the consumption and trade of wild animals are the root causes of the current coronavirus pandemic. Among other things, the virus is said to have been transmitted to humans by the pangolin whose traditional Chinese medicine boasts virtues. Other infectious diseases are also transmitted by wild animals. I'm thinking of the Ebola virus that's transmitted by the bat. The open letter also warns against the trade in bush meat, of which 4.6 tonnes would pass through Brussels Airport every month in passenger baggage, according to a recent study commissioned by the SPF Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment. The experts therefore call for more checks and more deterrent sanctions. Minister, this is the third time in three months that I have asked you about this. In May and June of this year, I was already linking our health to biodiversity and asking you if you were not seeing this situation as a unique opportunity to create a task force for the preservation of our biodiversity in Belgium but not only. Has your position changed since then? Do you now intend to create such a working group that could reflect on a new model, with a particular reflection on our relationship with natural ecosystems and the protection of public health? What concrete measures do you intend to take to strengthen controls and dissuasive sanctions in order to put an end to the illegal trade in wild game meat and to raise consumer awareness, in close cooperation with Brussels Airport and airlines as soon as flights resume?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the study to quantify the illegal importation of bushmeat via the Zaventem airport, it became clear that more information was needed on this traffic at European level. Indeed, this traffic is not only limited to Belgium. There is the possibility of European exchange networks. The trade in bushmeat to and within the European Union is a little known part of the issue of wildlife trafficking. However, it has major negative impacts on animal populations and ecosystem balance, not to mention the potentially extremely damaging consequences, as you pointed out, on human health and animal health. Acting on this theme is therefore part of our commitments to halt the loss of biodiversity, but not only. At the end of June, together with seven other European Environment Ministers, I launched an appeal to the Commissioners responsible for Health and Food Safety, Environment and Trade to set up an effective monitoring system to better control the illegal importation of wild meat at the borders of the European Union. This call referred, among other things, to Belgium's support for cooperation in a pilot project of the European Parliament on the trade in wild meat if it were to be accepted by the European Commission. I was recently informed that this project had unfortunately received a negative assessment on the grounds that European legislation was already sufficient. While enforcement on the ground is undoubtedly based on the Member States, it is legally up to the European Union to verify that its legislation is within appropriate scope and that it is effectively applied efficiently. At present, this assessment seems to me to be missing. I therefore consider it essential to continue, with the support of my European counterparts with whom I have been involved, to advocate this issue at supranational level, particularly in the context of the conclusions of the Environment Council. As far as the Belgian level is concerned, my answer is yes: I will propose from the start to my colleagues who are in charge of customs and animal health, in particular, the establishment of a national task force. The Commission's mandate would be to prepare our commitments for a sustainable trade in exotic animals at national level, one of which will be related to bushmeat. The recommendations of the December 2019 conference Dead or Alive: Towards a Sustainable Wildlife Trade will serve as a basis for defining our commitments. This working group will have to work with the various stakeholders. Airports and airlines will of course be invited to participate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic241x.u42	Madam Minister, thank you for finally hearing our request for a task force. I am happy to hear that because on several occasions I had supported the idea of setting up such a group to act together, particularly at the national level. I also hear that there is some reluctance at European level to act given the legislation already in place, and I also hear your particular sensitivity to change things in this area. I, for my part, undertake to convey this kind of concern to my party's European colleagues in order to ensure that they can also act at their level. I will come back to you for more details on the constitution of this task force in September and to see in particular how our committee can interact with it. Thank you for the good news.
