ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u1	Madam President, Minister, I am pleased that this committee is meeting. I've heard that this doesn't happen so often because there aren't often questions about privacy, but we'll try to change that from now on. My first question relates immediately to topicality. She's in charge of the heat cameras. I submitted that question two weeks ago, but today it appears that Brussels national will use heat cameras to check whether or not people have a fever and, if necessary, deny them access to the airport. Not only does Brussels National have these plans, a number of Belgian companies are also working on them, and I have a number of questions to ask. Is the privacy law applicable even if the measurement results are not stored? Can a third party, such as an employer, a catering establishment or a transport company, in this case the airport, require a person to undergo such a measurement? Can a third party, such as an employer, a catering establishment or a transport company refuse access to a person with a high skin temperature or a person who does not wish to undergo such a measurement? How should this third party indicate that a heat camera is present? What information should be available to the passers-by? Especially now, in the context of the airport and the fact that it was communicated, it is important to set the right communication opposite. The following is not in the question I have put, but you are a young and modern minister and can handle that flexibility. How much do you believe in that yourself? I have read a number of studies on differences in temperature in people that can sometimes not be measured by certain cameras or the fact that someone takes a Dafalgan before travelling. I know that the "solutionists" in this world always think that cameras and technology are hyperintelligent and can solve all problems, but I sometimes doubt that. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u2	Madam President, Mr Mahdi, thank you for your compliments and for your question. Taking the temperature itself is not considered by the Data Protection Authority as a processing of personal data. Otherwise, it is when there are certain consequences, such as registering the name of someone who has a fever to pass it on to a third party or to the government. If only the temperature is taken when entering, it is not a processing of personal data. It should certainly not be associated with the registration, storage or any other form of processing of that data.This can be applied perfectly for public places. In the context of the employer-employee relationship, we have another finding, namely that labour law applies, rather than GDPR or other regulations. You need to see what has been agreed in labour law. The relationship determines what is possible and what is not. When it comes to refusing people who do not want to undergo the test at certain locations, this in itself has nothing to do with data protection but with access control. In our country there are also very clear rules on this. On the other hand, specific rules can also be laid down in the exit strategy. But the National Security Council is still sitting together on that. As far as the measurement is concerned, this is a virus in which a large proportion of the carriers, and hence the distributors, are asymptomatic. They don't make a fever or have symptoms other than fever. To prevent the spread of the virus, this is just a small element in my eyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u3	Minister, I am satisfied with your answers. I particularly hope that you will keep in touch with your fellow ministers responsible for regulating the labour market as best as possible, as well as with those responsible for home affairs and security. I suspect it would be a good thing if a number of initiatives were taken at the national airport. I certainly welcome this technological progress. But I also hope that you, as a minister, will carry out the necessary checks to see that this is done properly and that the citizens are also properly informed. Then I think this can evolve in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u4	Madam Chair, Minister, this is a bit of a question. I will therefore update it, given the latest announcements we have heard. These are the measures taken, according to the press, by companies. There are even announcements for certain sectors, certain events, which imagine measures to cope with the gradual deconfination, to accommodate employees or visitors safely. For example, the QR code-based system would be applied in different locations frequented within a company. Whenever an employee is present, he or she scans a code with his or her smartphone. People are then warned if they are in the same place and at the same time as a person infected with the virus. This type of system challenges us, especially in terms of respect for privacy and individual freedoms, and also the consequences that this can have. Today, if such a device indicates that an employee is infected with the virus, and it is detected via QR code, can sanctions be provided? These are the questions we ask ourselves. I am extending this issue to a range of applications that are announced in private companies, applications that would be installed on employees' smartphones. As part of the reopening of the Horeca facilities, some have already announced that they are considering implementing an application to ensure that only people who do not have the VOCID-19 virus have access to horeca facilities and, as one might imagine, to events. Of course, this raises a lot of questions. Minister, what is the legal framework for installing such a system, such applications, in the context of private companies, private horeca establishments? What are the requirements that apply, not only in terms of privacy, but also in terms of impact on the person himself? Will she be denied entry to certain places? Will she be obliged to leave her place of work? Compared to the systems, do you have some sort of check of all the systems that are being put in place? We had the discussion here in Parliament about systems via Bluetooth or GPS for geolocation. We have chosen, at the level of Parliament, and it is happy, Bluetooth systems that cannot geolocation us. But what about all these initiatives that are born in different places? Will the data be encrypted? Will they be anonymized? Will these systems be considered on a voluntary basis? One might imagine that this would be very restrictive in the context of a company that would impose – but is it possible – such applications on its employees. The last element concerns algorithms and programs that would be used to implement such applications. Do you, or through certain legal frameworks, conduct a census or review of the matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u5	Dear colleague, different applications are already on the market and others are being developed. That is why you voted this resolution in Parliament a few weeks ago. For the launch of the tracing application, the Council of State indicated that this responsibility lies with the Regions and that a cooperation agreement must be reached to resolve this issue before the implementation is launched. Applications are already being used in some companies and consideration is being given to others. Of course, it depends on what type of technology it is. For example, QR codes do not use GPS signals, Bluetooth, or any other data. When a person walks through a business door every day or finds himself or herself in a certain place, he or she has to scan a QR code or receive one. This is anonymized data. In this context, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) does not apply. This kind of interaction between the employer and the employee is primarily regulated by labour law. A discussion must take place between trade unions and companies in order to define where the limit should be placed. In my opinion, it must be an anonymized system that works on a voluntary basis. But I leave these discussions to companies and unions. Other applications are already on the market or are in the process of being on the market. The Data Protection Authority is competent to define the framework – the GDPR applies in this case – and is responsible for answering specific questions so that the law and the rules on privacy are respected. Technology can help fight this virus and pandemic, and try to put our society back on the path of normalcy. On the other hand, I remain very vigilant about some applications, especially when it comes to privacy intrusion. During this crisis, we had a lot of contacts with developers about dozens of applications that use different technologies, not only for tracing, but also for other reasons. There are dozens of applications, not only for the tracing of contacts but also for health checks, self-checking or the organisation of queues in shops. We have always replied that these are applications that can be placed on the market. The data processing working group has therefore contributed to the development of some of these applications, in collaboration with the Data Protection Authority, in compliance with the rules in force. A list of the applications in question is also available on our website, but these applications do not relate to the tracing of contacts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u6	Minister, thank you. I put myself in the position of a worker who finds himself confronted with an employer who asks him to download an application or a system to decrypt QR codes. It is important to clarify things for these people. I understand that you are referring to social consultation, but that means that each sector must take charge of this kind of impact on workers. I also understand the role of the Data Protection Authority, which every citizen must be allowed to consult if he or she is confronted with any of the above situations in the course of his or her work or otherwise. I think it is important to communicate this to the general public, as there will be many questions about it in the coming weeks. Finally, I am – like you – convinced that technology can be an aid in the fight against the VOCID-19 pandemic. To do this, it is essential that the benchmarks are clear and that we guarantee transparency, respect for privacy and individual freedoms, and information to the citizen. In this case, the multiplication of applications and systems may create blur and many fears within the population, and it is on this point that we want to draw your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u7	Minister, I have a question about the modern car. Some people already drive around with that. I haven't. I'm still riding with an old Toyota, whose window you still have to open manually. However, the European Privacy Watchdog (EDPB) warns about the modern car. They all carry great technologies and can take people from home to work without having to think about which route to take. All these gadgets keep track of data, which unfortunately are then resold to third parties. A lawyer would argue that there is little wrong with that because it passes the GDPR test completely. The data is anonymized. However, the question is how anonymous these data really are. If one knew that a person living in Vilvoorde and going to the Chamber every day, then Jessika Soors and I would be eligible. If people also know that this person goes to football in Anderlecht once every two weeks, then I do not know if Mrs Soors is still eligible. However, there is little doubt as to which resident of Vilvoorde is involved and the data are no longer so anonymous. I have the following questions, Minister. How do you feel about that data being sold to third parties? Is that problematic? Do you join the European privacy watchdog who is concerned? Are there any possibilities to give permission to users and owners of cars to withdraw some of those gadgets or to release information to third parties or to the car manufacturer himself? What will you do at European level, taking into account the concerns of the European Privacy Watchdog? What position has Belgium taken so far in European fora? According to Proximus, consent in this environment is not always the most appropriate legal basis. Do you share that opinion? Finally, several governments responded to the public consultation on the Guidelines on processing personal data in the context of connected vehicles and mobility related applications. What response did Belgium give? Why was there a response to this consultation or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u8	Mr Mahdi, I have seen the recommendations and read them with great interest. The EDPB has described the problem in a very good way and correctly framed it. He has also clearly described the basic requirements for the processing of the data and the consent of the user as well as the correct information for the user before giving his consent and his personal data can be processed with a very clearly defined finality. In addition, as always, the minimalisation of personal data and privacy by design must be respected. It should also be noted that the use of localisation technology requires specific guarantees to prevent the monitoring of persons and the misuse of data. I share the opinion expressed by that European body. If the use of certain functionalities of the AudiTT depends on the processing of certain personal data, the consent cannot be considered free, which is not in accordance with the GDPR. You know as well as I do that it requires a valid consent. Such authorisation should be free, specific and informed. There must also be an unambiguous indication of the wishes of the person concerned. However, in many cases the user is not aware of the data processing of his vehicle's data. The data controller shall pay particular attention to the modalities for obtaining the valid consent of the car owner. Such authorisation must be given separately, for specific purposes, and cannot therefore be linked to a contract for the purchase or leasing of a new car. The consent must also be able to be withdrawn. That's why it has to be done separately. The processing of personal data is of course not problematic in itself. That data market exists and will only grow in the near future. We must remain vigilant and consider where possible problems may arise. One of the questions is indeed whether one can stay in line with the legal framework for the processing of personal data. It is therefore important that the new technologies in the car market are followed in the framework of the recommendations of the European Data Protection Authority. National authorities are best placed to do so. As Minister for Digital Agenda, I have always looked very closely at all the digital innovations in the automotive sector. They're fantastic, and I applaud them, but I'm also Minister of Privacy. So I have a different attitude and I will always continue to point out in this function, including European fora, the importance of respecting the rules on the protection of personal data, not only the basic rules, such as the regularity of processing, but also, for example, the application of privacy by design, when new technologies are being developed. It may also play a much greater role in the future than it is today. The Data Protection Authority should also pay attention to this and engage in dialogue with the sectors that are developing such technology and try to use state-of-the-art technology for it. I hope that it can be developed in Belgium, but then the Data Protection Authority will have to take care of it. Belgium has responded positively to the European recommendations. Much of this research can also be used, for example, to improve road safety and the safety of cars and to address mobility issues. It is therefore important that we continue to monitor these developments very closely. I do so together with my colleague responsible for Mobility, who, before giving a coordinated response, is still studying the new directives. We have permanent contact on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u9	Madam President, Minister, data always have advantages, in the context of research data are worth gold, but then they must be used in the right way. That is very difficult when it comes to data that should be anonymized. When it comes to using a car, it is very difficult to keep that data anonymous. Above all, I hope that you will make the Belgian voice sound loud in European fora and that you will effectively say what you have clarified here. When it comes to the consent linked to the purchase of a car, that permission must be separate from the car itself, so that it can be withdrawn by someone who buys a car. That is very important. A lot of people don't think about it. We all do that, whether it's surfing or signing a contract, nobody reads the fine print. Apart from the cross at the bottom of a contract, we as policy makers, as politicians, have the responsibility to point out the potential dangers associated with processing data. These data may indeed be interesting in the context of an investigation. I also embrace any digital innovation that is rolled out by large companies and car manufacturers. In addition, however, there is the concern that we share, I think, with regard to privacy. I hope you will share this concern, not only in European fora and here in Parliament, but also in the outside world. After all, many people simply do not consider the dangers associated with giving data to third parties and private companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u10	Minister, I am so excited about the issue of privacy that I have two questions on the agenda. In fact, however, it is the same question that I have updated at some point. So you can rest assured of the version I submitted on 28 May. My question is in line with the issue that Mr Vanden Burre has just raised and concerns the use of social distance wearables by companies. Those are devices that can warn people, usually the employees of a company, if they get too close to someone else and thus help to respect the minimum distance of one and a half meters. Some devices only give a warning, others also register the contacts. There are also alternative systems, such as scanning a barcode or QR code, to find out who has been where. All these systems are now entering. There are also companies that measure the temperature of their employees and at least one company, Van Marcke, if I am right, has developed its own app. We will undoubtedly see more of them emerge in the coming period. Of course, Mr Minister, such initiatives raise a lot of questions about privacy. What regulations apply, for example, to social distance wearables or temperature measurement? I have just heard you say that this temperature measurement is not in itself regarded as a processing of personal data, but with a combination of and a device for social distancing and temperature measurement one can still speak of far-reaching measures. Could you explain that a little bit more? Secondly, some wearables not only warn when a distance is not respected, but also register the contacts. Is registering contacts allowed by employers? If so, on what basis? What guarantees should a possible registration offer? My third question was whether employers can impose such a system, but you have already answered it more or less. Then I come to my fourth question. According to the Dutch personal data authority, the authorisation of employees for such initiatives is not valid because employees are not in the same dominant position as employers. Does the same reasoning apply in our country? Is that something that could be referred to, for example, in the social dialogue? Why is that? Why is that? Fifthly, can public services oblige citizens who want access to certain services to use such a system? Why is that? Why is that? Finally, would you like to work on a more coherent legal framework for such initiatives? We are still working on the bill on the app, but in the meantime there is already new technology. If so, what steps do you intend to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u11	Mrs Soors, the answers are similar to those given to Mr Vanden Burre. A number of questions need to be asked first. What personal data are processed? Are personal data processed when using a social distancing wearable or application? When wearing such a device, which happens today in different locations to help employees respect social distancing through a vibration function or sound, there is no processing of personal data. It doesn't necessarily involve processing. There are applications, applications and wearables that do not need to be covered by GDPR legislation. When one starts tracking and registering contacts, of course those basic principles of the GDPR must be taken into account. One of the rules there is proportionality. If one is able to do so in other ways, by using the sense of the citizen or by using a vibration function or other application if one is at risk of getting too close, then that is one way to respect social distancing without having to process additional data. It is therefore perfectly possible to use those devices that do not process personal data in order to achieve the same objective. Wearing a wearable in companies is not so much a matter of GDPR, but rather of social legislation and the relationship between the employer and the employee. Through social dialogue, we can negotiate and make agreements on this with equal weapons, by sector and by group of companies, to see how best we can do this. We also get many questions from employees themselves who would like to use such a thing, because they are sure that they apply the rules correctly. So the question comes from both sides, and certainly not just from employers. In my view, the provision of public services cannot be conditional on the use of such a device. I don't think that's the issue right now. It is important that public services can continue to be provided, even at difficult times such as today. It is clear that there is a search for accessibility via digital and electronic means. It also looks at how remote support can be provided, via telehelp and others. I have the impression that in recent weeks public services have been able to continue to do most of their work. They did a good job, too. They have assisted people when needed, in other ways, without having to rely on all kinds of applications and tracing mechanisms. Of course, it always remains the responsibility of the GBA to ensure that every application, every application, every technology that comes on the market, is effective in compliance with GDPR rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad to hear you say that reinventing the slopes of services is sometimes a better slope than making such applications conditional for services. I would like to go into more detail about what you say about proportionality. You are, of course, right about that. This is true for each individual application, but at the same time there is also something like the proportionality of the sum of many things. If employees and their temperature have to be measured and recorded, and their contacts and location in the company is maintained, and it may be recorded how long they are in a particular room, then the sum of these things also has a form of disproportion. I'm having a hard time recording this myself. The measures are considered one by one, but it is in the sum total that the measures can sometimes be invasive for the privacy of people. I hope that you will look at this in that way and continue to think about it. Then we will remain an ally to manage the privacy issues in the fight against the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u13	Mr Freilich is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u14	Minister, on 18 May the media announced that "Proximus will receive from the Data Protection Authority a record fine of EUR 50,000 for a conflict of interest with his data protection officer'. I quote: "The DPO is the person responsible within the company for the proper implementation of the GDPR Directive. The DPO is supposed to be a guide in these procedures. You cannot be the counselor and the decision-maker as was the case with Proximus," says Hielke Hijmans, the director of the GBA's dispute chamber. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of that statement? Do you agree or do you believe that the fine is unjustified? How do you think such a conflict of interest could arise? Will there be an investigation into the existence of similar conflicts of interest among other organisations? Do you think that specific actions are needed to prevent such conflicts of interest in the future? What action can be taken to this end?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u15	Mr Gilissen, on 28 April, the Data Protection Authority's dispute chamber gave a ruling on the position and functioning of the DPO at Proximus. The GBA has not committed a breach of the General Data Protection Regulation in itself, but a breach of the GDPR due to the conflict of interest with the DPO, which was also responsible for compliance, risk management and internal audit. The accumulation of these different functions could jeopardise the independence of the DPO and could also lead to insufficient confidentiality and confidentiality of staff in accordance with the GDPR. I would like to point out that this is true for questions put before us, and certainly for future questions too, that that decision was taken by an independent supervisory authority. As the Minister responsible for the protection of privacy, it is not for me to comment on the substance. We have taken note of that decision. Proximus should now give the appropriate follow-up. In my view, it is very important that there should be a very clear interpretation of the GDPR's rules on the statutes and the assignments of a DPO and that it should be translated by the GBA into clear guidelines for controllers, who can organise themselves in accordance with them. After all, the GBA must respond proactively to all the questions about how this should be organised. Companies and organisations in need of a DPO I would like to clarify once again that the DPO is not necessarily necessary in each organisation, since its presence depends on very specific criteria............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. At that time, there must be clear guidelines on how to complete the function. That role must be assumed by the independent supervisor. Moreover, its annual plans set out very clearly that there should be proactive communication, that clear guidelines should be established and that all companies and organisations should act in accordance with the GDPR, i.e. that the DPO should have an independent statute in an organisation. I would like to point out that for SMEs and smaller organisations, which are very often in need of clarity, a combination of functions may be possible under the circumstances. The GBA must therefore establish a very clear procedure with guidelines on how organisations can avoid conflicts of interest and how to deal with them if necessary, so that they know what to do. That must be done in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I look forward to the guidelines that will be drawn up by the GBA to avoid such conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u17	Madam President, Minister, most of the questions in this committee are asked in response to a fact. I ask this question as a result of the fact that in Germany the GBA leader has taken a clear stand on WhatsApp. He states that WhatsApp is highly advised not to be used as a means of communication by the public authorities. He particularly has problems with the fact that Facebook collects metadata, perhaps for advertisements, and not so much about the content of the messages. WhatsApp is a means of communication with end-to-end encryption. It does run through Facebook's servers. So we don't know what happens with that. I was wondering if there has been any discussion about this in Parliament? What's your take on that? Have you ever asked the GBA for advice on this? Did you ever get any questions from local authorities or county authorities about using WhatsApp?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u18	Thank you for this question. I do not think there has ever been a debate in this House. I myself have not yet been contacted by any local, provincial, regional or federal service or government with any questions about this. Today, too, there are not really specific guidelines for public authorities in general to impose a ban on the use of WhatsApp or other social media. Of course, there are specific services that take additional security measures and that discourage or even prohibit the use of certain software or digital technology. In the case of WhatsApp I haven't heard this yet. It is important, however, that concrete indications are followed. The GBA does this at European level, through the European Data Protection Board. There the developments of WhatsApp and other social media are closely monitored. In 2017-2018, WhatsApp was investigated there and, for example, questioned about the change in user conditions following the acquisition by Facebook. That's the way they look at it. Then a number of changes took place that brought everything back into line with the GDPR. The GBA is also best placed to keep following this up. If she considers it necessary to give an opinion on this, she will certainly do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u19	That is very clear for today. It seems at first sight an innocent medium and a lot of local authorities want to be along with their time and use these kinds of platforms. Well, we're gonna keep following this. It is interesting to know that Europe is certainly following this closely. Maybe we'll come back to this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u20	Minister, the reason for this question was a statement by your colleague, Minister De Crem, on the committee. He was asked about the failure of the monitoring system in Zaventem. He indicated that there is currently a working group within the police dealing with the processing of biometric data, which is also considering whether facial recognition can be re-established. In that working group, according to what Mr De Crem said, we would be looking at the desirability and legality of facial recognition. Then he praised this technology. Minister, is that a government position? Are you involved in this? What is your view of your colleague's position?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u21	Mr Verduyckt, I too have heard Minister De Crem say that a working group would be set up to see how all this can be achieved within the compliance of the Data Protection Authority and the police supervisory authorities. I have to tell you that my cabinet is not involved in that internal working group that Minister De Crem announced. I have been questioned a number of times in Parliament about my position on facial recognition software. I have a very clear position on this. I believe that the greatest possible caution should be shown when dealing with this issue. The use of new technology can, of course, support the detection of people in the fight against crime. Oh, yes, I do. But I believe there are other ways. We must be careful with new technology, especially in terms of privacy. On the one hand, I am a great advocate of new digital innovation, but on the other hand, I have a certain reluctance in terms of facial recognition. I answered a question in this committee a few weeks ago that I was of the opinion, and still believe, that it is right that the European Commission should put in place a moratorium on the use of facial recognition software and first look closely at its social impact. The Commission also wants to look at its impact on the protection of privacy before it moves towards a massive roll-out of such technology throughout Europe. I'll keep that vigilance. If steps are to be taken in this respect, I will not fail to do so. Both the GBA and the police supervisor have played their part. They pointed out that the roll-out of facial recognition software was not in conformity with the legislation and that the project had to be stopped. That is also the way the system was set up. Those control bodies should play their role, precisely in order to ensure that everything is and continues to be carried out within the framework of the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer. I fully share your opinion. It is a technique of which people today do not know how far it can go, especially if it is used daily. And here we are only talking about the use of crime. I fully agree with your reservations. It is good to hear that Minister De Crem's statement is certainly not a government position and that we need to think carefully before taking further steps to use this technology in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u23	Mr Minister, the Data Protection Authority or GBA has actually given you the ideal pre-assist, after which you can head the ball. After all, when the GBA states that it wants to play a more proactive role in society, I think that this is a message that a minister responsible for protecting privacy can only be happy with. We can take some further steps in this area. In some of our neighbouring countries, not to mention Germany, privacy is very high on the agenda and the privacy committee plays a very prominent role. That's not wrong. We live in a society in which technological developments are moving terribly fast. They're not usually Belgian made. They're gonna come to us, and we're gonna have to do it with it. So it's good to hear that the GBA wants to get on with that, I think. But at first I am curious about your opinion on this. Do you think it is necessary for the GBA to play a more proactive role? Do you think she's already playing a rather proactive role today? Secondly, the GBA considers that the more proactive role can only be fulfilled if sufficient resources are available. Do you believe that additional resources are needed to fulfil the more proactive role? Or can it play a more proactive role with the resources available to it today than is currently the case? Have you discussed this with the GBA? If additional resources are needed, what means do you think a future government should release to ensure respect for the privacy of our citizens? You may always have a number on that, since you are still a minister now, even if you are looking for new challenges.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u24	To continue with the football metaphor, I feel best as a box-to-box player, who can cover a large part of the terrain, although in the current setup I am more of a target man, literally and figuratively. From my appointment as Secretary of State for the Protection of Privacy, I pointed out that the then Privacy Commission, now the Data Protection Authority, had to play a much more proactive role in two areas. Firstly, it needs to be more proactive in terms of communication, with clear guidelines and instructions on the ground, in order to ensure that companies that want to set themselves up as a rule can do so. The GDPR itself is sometimes quite an opaque legislation. It is important that a data protection authority takes to heart its mission to present very clear positions and guidelines in order to ensure that the area can implement everything correctly. I expressed this wish at the beginning of my post as Secretary of State and then again at the establishment of the GBA. Besides, it is also very clearly stated in the annual report and the future plans of the GBA that it must take this task to heart. I agree with you that there is still a bit to be done in this area. Secondly, the GBA should proactively identify cases and search for potential sources for privacy issues. It must proactively identify and anticipate such situations. That is why we have set up a knowledge centre at the GBA, which can provide the necessary expertise. That is the second important, proactive task of the GBA. That is why people and resources are needed. I would like to point out once again, however, and I have had the same discussion with your predecessors on several occasions that the GBA is an independent body, which depends on Parliament. If you think that more resources should go to the GBA, I would ask you, reflecting the ball, to put a figure on that and to convince your colleagues to make that figure a reality in the years to come. The importance of privacy in our society must not be underestimated. Additional resources will therefore have to be made available if necessary. However, I would remind you that, when the GBA was set up, several additional millions went to the GBA to guide the transformation of the privacy committee into a data protection authority and to focus on developing additional communication and on the proactive detection of possible privacy problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u25	Mr Minister, you attach a great role to Parliament by assuming that we can influence the budget to the extent that we can allocate additional resources to the protection of privacy. I hope that's possible. In any case, I am pleased to hear that you would have liked to have been a box-to-box player. I was too in a not so far past. I thank you for today's answers and may see you soon on our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u26	Mr Mahdi, it is Parliament that lays down the amount of the GBA, not the federal budget. The federal budget lays down the resources for Parliament and Parliament lays down the amount for the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear: if you have more than one question, you can immediately put all your questions together with a maximum speaking time of four minutes in total.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u28	Mrs Depoorter is not present, so I give the floor to Mr Boukili.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u29	Madam President, Minister, I have asked you several times about the lack of government programming of protective measures for judicial personnel. Marie Messiaen, president of the Association of Magistrates' Union (ASM) and Vincent Macq, president of the Union professionnelle de la magistrature (UPM), explained in the LAvenir edition of 11 May: "Justice depends on the executive and it has obviously not been taken into account for the necessary material. We haven't received enough masks. So some of the staff comes with their own and we distribute them to those who don't. We don't have plexiglas for transplant counters, for example." The PTB also questioned the actors on the ground and lamented that this DIY adds to the great misery of justice. A judge of the Brussels Correctional Court testified: "We have been forgotten and left behind. I refer you to this photo, circulating on Facebook, of a Namibian court, whose window was covered with food film by the employees. I am also thinking of the 20 masks received by the public prosecutor's office in Brussels, where 500 people work." His court clerk added: "Concerning the functioning of justice during the VOCID-19 pandemic, we have not received any protective equipment: no gloves, no masks, no hydro-alcoholic gel – and I am outraged." The various trade unions also issued a joint press release and announced that, if security measures were not deployed on 18 May, they would use their trade union prerogatives. Contrary to appearances, this period certainly did not constitute – because of its anxiety and oppressive character for all – a moment of calm for the justice sector. The recovery will be loaded. That is why it must be discussed, so that the cases can be dealt with again with all the serenity required, not in a spirit of urgency or cost-effectiveness at all. Of course, everyone is aware that this backlog will have to be addressed. For these reasons, Minister, I would like to know whether any health protection equipment has been supplied to the various jurisdictions. What security measures are being taken, and how much investment? Are they fully effective to date? Have there been consultation with workers and social consultation? If so, on what date? What are the priorities identified by the sector? Can you explain the delay in adopting protective measures? What do you want to say to these legitimately worried and disappointed workers? In view of the short time I have left, I refer, for my other questions, to the texts tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u30	Madam Chair, Minister, I will probably have to read your answer in the record because all the committees are taking place at the same time, as a result of the work of your National Security Council. Nor can I move my question because of this topical debate. Minister, on April 21, the Sûreté published an interesting brochure entitled "The danger hidden behind the VOCID-19" and subtitled "Extremism (right-hand side), potential interference and damage to economic and scientific potential". It was a good communication that generally clearly named the stakes: right-wing extremism, pro-Russian communication, extreme left. Russia is widely cited, at least six times, in this short booklet as a serious danger. I'm not complaining. You might as well call a cat a cat! On the other hand, the chapter "Protection of economic and scientific potential" which calls for " vigilance against foreign powers coveting strategic takeovers of firms in difficulty" does not point any particular country. It is suddenly very vague about the origin of these threats to our companies. One cannot help but think that a self-censorship or, worse still, Chinese pressure has been exerted there to spare this country, whose threat to our economic interests and our democratic model is clearly known. There are many recent cases of China's intimidation of European governments. Minister, why such a brochure? How is this brochure distributed to individuals and institutions that can benefit from its warnings and recommendations? What is the impact of such a brochure on the companies concerned? Do you share the analysis of many observers that China takes advantage of the crisis of the coronavirus to try to buy cheap Belgian or European companies, especially in strategic areas of high technology or logistics? Why don't you say it? Was there pressure, as has happened at other levels, from China to sweeten certain passages of the note? Did the Sûreté prefer to anticipate China's wrath and prefer not to name it? More generally, how is this sometimes very aggressive diplomacy of China, which I have sometimes been the object of, exercised over our services, making any criticism of China's attitude immediately subject to threats of retaliation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u31	Consultations were held on 28 May on the problems of interpreters between the Directorate-General for Justice and the largest professional association of interpreters. In addition, there were contacts between the judicial order and the ICT department of the FPS Justice to address the mentioned problem. The use of an interpreter's suitcase can indeed only be encouraged. An interpreter's suitcase, as Mr Van Hecke himself points out, is a major investment, which can reach thousands of euros. The FPS Justice is bound for such purchases by the public procurement procedures, which take up the necessary time. As the crisis requires more urgent action, the ICT staff is currently investigating several pragmatic slopes in cooperation with the judicial organisation. For example, this week a number of whisper sets, which can be used immediately on site, are rented. The specific rate applicable to interpreters when using an interpreter's suitcase shall be as laid down in the relevant tariff decision. I will have an examination of whether there is any possibility of extending the specific rate. The evaluation of the tariff decision was already under way, but the lockdown has temporarily blocked further discussions. Discussions will be resumed as soon as possible. In the first half of May, risk analyses and action plans will be prepared for each of the court buildings in collaboration with the prevention advisor. The situation of the courtrooms is always part of that. Criminal proceedings also took into account the security position of all interveners, who must respect the rules of social discrimination. If this is not possible, the interpreter, like others present, will have to have a mouth mask. Mouth masks are available, if necessary, in court. All other personal and collective protection measures shall apply to the interpreters. The College of the seat has taken the initiative to communicate best practices and temporary solutions. The judicial police removals of detainees were always insured, if explicitly requested by the court. A complete restoration of the appearances before the courts is difficult to predict and depends on the further evolution of the COVID epidemic. The appearance of prisoners is accompanied by many movements between courts and prisons and between prisons. The restrictions have clearly prevented an outbreak of COVID-19 in prisons. With regard to Mrs Van Vaerenbergh's question, since the start of the lockdown several measures have been taken by the Justice Department to ensure that the most urgent cases continue with the necessary security measures. Following consultations at the end of April with both colleges and with the Court of Cassation, it was decided that the Court of Justice would return to its full work from 18 May. As a result of that decision, the FPS and the colleges have worked on additional measures. As early as 1 May, the College of Courts and Courts distributed recommendations to the Management Committees of the Courts in the framework of the exit strategy. The prevention advisors and the FPS Justice have carried out a risk analysis in the various courthouses to concreteise the measures on the ground. In that communication, the College stated that it was appropriate to provide as much material as possible through the FPS Justice, grouped together on existing contracts. As far as the mouth masks are concerned, the FPS Justice has already delivered more than 330,000 mouth masks to the courts through the lectures, to distribute them to all the entities in the arrondissement. The College further pointed to the possibility of purchasing locally in an urgent case. Small purchases can sometimes be completed faster. Many suppliers were also unable to deliver the quantities requested by the FOD immediately. Some public prosecutors and courts have therefore taken their own initiatives. I turn now to the questions raised by Mr Boukili and Mrs Rohonyi on the protection of justice personnel during the crisis of the VOCID-19. As a vital service to society, the judiciary has been able to continue its work in recent weeks thanks to the commitment of many men and women. The FPS Justice, the College of Courts and the Public Prosecutor's Office have been working on additional measures to enable the justice system to fully resume its functions from 18 May. As of May 1, the College of Courts and Courts issued a communication to the Courts Management Committees as part of the containment exit strategy. This Communication contains various recommendations on hygiene and work organisation. The Prevention Advisors and the FPS Justice conducted a risk analysis in the various judicial buildings in order to implement the measures on the ground. With regard to protective equipment, more than 330,000 masks were delivered to the courts and distributed locally to all management committees in the district. The recruitment of additional staff for cleaning and reception is in full swing. As regards reception in compliance with the rules of social distancing, it is planned to hire 74 additional people, and 30 new contracts are currently being prepared. The reinforcement of the cleaning staff is ensured by the increase in the hours to be paid by the staff already employed and by an external recruitment procedure. The contracts of 63 cleaning staff were expanded. In addition, contracts for the engagement of 25 external collaborators are being prepared. Information in this regard was shared with the unions prior to restarting. A social consultation was held on 8 May. Subsequently, on 15 May, the unions were informed of the status of deliveries and risk analyses. We are certainly seeing some difficulties here and there, but in general there are no major problems to be deplored. I would therefore like to thank all the judicial staff for their dedication and commitment, despite the difficult circumstances, as well as the various services that are working hard to enable the justice system to continue its work in secure conditions. With regard to Mr Boukili's question on the protection of vulnerable litigants during the VOCID-19 crisis, I would like to point out that we have already undertaken many reforms to guarantee the right of access to justice, particularly in relation to the right of appointment. Since 1 February 2019, additional cases have been exempted from the right to place on the roll, and the registries can no longer demand from the court the payment of the duty of placing on the roll prior to the registration of his case on the roll. It is only at the time of its final delivery that the judge condemns the defendant or appellant who is liable for the duty to pay that duty. In a first law on VOCID-19, you passed a measure to guarantee access to notaries for all litigants, by videoconference and without any additional fees, fees or taxes for notarial proxies. This measure is important in particular for persons in closed establishments and persons with reduced mobility. A second bill on VOCID-19 was published last week. It contains measures to protect vulnerable litigants, such as the temporary restriction of seizure and execution against individuals. I would like to point out that, thanks to the instructions of the National Chamber of Judicial Officers, a necessary caution has been observed, from the beginning of the crisis, in the matter of recovery, seizure and expulsion. There have been few problems on the ground. The bill is very useful in managing the future situation. I welcome the amendments on second-line legal aid that have been tabled and approved under this last bill. They aim to extend the 15-day period for the delivery of legal aid documents, to assimilate the impossibility of providing documents in time due to the crisis to the urgency provided for in article 508/14 of the Judicial Code, and to give a 30-day period for the Legal Aid Office to decide. With regard to possible tax reductions, these are the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. Mrs Rohonyi, you asked a question about the digitalisation of justice in the context of the health crisis. The organization of hearings is the autonomy of the judiciary. I have asked lawyers, judicial officers and the judiciary to jointly develop a solution concerning the timetables. I know they're working on it right now. Digital criminal records are available in all correctional registries, even if the file is processed in another court. In order to be able to transmit files to lawyers in a secure manner, lawyers must have a J-Box. It has been some time since the JustSendIt computer tool was developed for this purpose. The lawyers started the deployment of these J-Boxes. The standardization and computerization of case management continues. If necessary, the launch of a call for tenders is a mission that will be the responsibility of my successor. Both the hardware and software of the Justice FPS are constantly renewed. A recent satisfaction survey shows a steady increase over the past two years in user satisfaction with these two aspects of our IT. After analysis, the selection of the Justice FPS focused on the Webex tool to the great satisfaction of the people who use the system. In addition, the Teams tool is used in some pilot projects. The two tools are interoperable. The Judicial Training Institute (IFJ) has a webinar tool. To answer your question about electronic signature, I refer to my answers to the various questions asked in recent weeks on this subject. In summary, the use of the electronic signature is deployed in all courts using Mach, starting with the justices of the peace. As a result of legislative amendments to various VOCID bills approved by the Commission, the deployment of the digital signature in the courts without the Mach application was launched, starting with the labour courts. A ICT support service in charge of digitisation has been in existence for several years within the Justice FPS. Projects are discussed in several working groups including user consultation. The ICT budget for this year is EUR 40.656 million. It is equivalent to that of 2018. We are in a situation of provisional twelfths. Then I come to the questions about the strike commitment in prisons. I received the prison trade unions on Tuesday 26 May to listen to their demands and to see if there were opportunities to meet them, without compromising the visit launched on 25 May. The consultations were very constructive and subject to a number of limited adjustments to the instructions on the visit an agreement was found. The government has committed itself on a number of points. For example, every visitor receives a mask from the general management of the prison system upon entering the prison. That mask will be returned after the visit. Each visitor must fill out a form on his or her honour with regard to his or her state of health for the past 14 days. If prison staff thinks they notice symptoms of COVID-19 with the visitor, it asks them to submit to a temperature measurement. The temperature shall be measured, if possible, by a member of the medical staff. If the medical staff is not available, the measurement shall be carried out by the doorman, who shall then wear appropriate protective equipment. Additional thermometers and modified protective equipment will be available at the door. At a body temperature above 38 degrees, the visitor is not allowed. If the temperature measurement is refused, the visitor is not allowed either. Inmates may receive visits of up to four different persons. That measure shall be evaluated within 14 days. The prevention advisor inspects all visiting areas and checks that there is sufficient room to respect the rules of social distancing rules. In doing so, he assesses the area, the protective equipment and other hygiene and procedural requirements. Meanwhile, the visit of the detainees is further organised according to the adapted instructions. Then I come to Mrs Rohonyi and Mrs De Wit's question on the assignments of prevention advisers and advisers in prisons. A real evaluation of prison visits has not yet been carried out. It is planned to work with the unions on Wednesday, 10 June. Of course, it was examined how the first days went and whether there were any problems. The feedback was positive, only the combinations of mouth masks and plexi screens ensured that in certain establishments prisoners and visitors speak louder than is strictly necessary. That brings with it a certain amount of noise nuisance. There were measurements up to 90 decibels. The way in which this problem can be solved is being explored. All instructions are always sent to all prisons. Each of them received enough masks to provide one to each visitor. As regards the notice of strike and the commitments of the authority, I refer to the answer given to Mr. Van Hecke on this a few moments ago. Since a maximum of one person per visit is authorized and the visit must be reserved, it is normal for the inmate to choose the person from among the four different authorized persons. The one-person rule is modelled on the measure adopted for communities. In the case of minors, only minors at least 16 years of age may be unaccompanied by an adult during the visit. A minor under the age of 16 is never allowed to enter a prison if he or she is not accompanied. The trade unions received the instructions for the visit on Friday 15 May and they were discussed at the meeting on Tuesday 19 May. The visit started on Monday 25 May. The trade unions have therefore received the instructions in advance, just as they have received other instructions and FAQs in the past few weeks. As to what changes were made to the instructions, I would refer once again to the reply to Mr Van Hecke that I have just given. Mr Segers and Mr Boukili, you asked questions about the prevention advisers responsible for prisons. On 26 May the Finance Inspectorate gave a favourable opinion on the allocation of individual mileage quotas to staff of the prison management, including those responsible for prevention of prisons. My administration has informed me that the decision has taken more time and negotiations than expected. The quotas were granted on the basis of that opinion on 29 May. I have urged my administration to ensure that the submitted and approved cost statements for the last few months are paid by the end of June. Eighteen prevention advisers work for DG PPE and a division of labour is carried out. I have asked the services of the Chairman of the Management Committee to make progress in the various projects concerning prevention advisers, the recruitment of new employees, promotion procedures, to bring clarity in the vision of the service in the near future, taking into account the members of the staff present and their status, a time line, etc. On 30 May, the Director of the PPIS provided the Chair of the Steering Committee with a note that includes all of these themes. I do not have to answer Mr Crombez's question, nor do I have to answer Mrs Depoorter's and Mr Colebunders' questions. Mr Dallemagne, the brochure published on 21 April on the site of the State Security and concerning the danger represented by coronavirus in China is part of an open and transparent communication policy towards the general public. The aim of this initiative is to raise awareness among the various actors of the risks falling within the powers of the intelligence service, to advise the competent authorities and to take measures to obstruct the actors who threaten the interests of Belgium. With regard to China's possible pressures, I can only comment on my skills. The Sûreté de l'Etat itself rejects any attempt by a foreign actor to influence the drafting of this product for a wide audience in order to inform it of the threats to our country. One of the tasks of the State Security is the protection of economic and scientific potential. For this reason, it is clear that the acquisition of Belgian companies considered strategic is a matter of concern. However, it is not a matter of focusing on a single actor, at the risk of excluding others. As far as China is concerned, the Sûreté has repeatedly drawn attention in its annual reports on its activities in Belgium. So far, my answers to the first set of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u32	Madam President, I refer to the record.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answers. I don't know how long I have. The Chair: You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u34	Madam Chair, as I did not say in my questions, I would like to be longer in my reply, given the length of Mr.Minister's answers, and I would like to thank him for that. With regard to health security in courts and tribunals, I understand that measures have been taken and that additional staff will be engaged. I would have liked clarification as to its distribution among the boroughs. I would like these elements to come to us in writing. Nevertheless, I continue to believe that it is not normal for protective equipment to have been so long-awaited for courts and tribunals, even though this material is now a condition for the very exercise of one of our legitimate missions, namely to render justice. It must be seen as a public service. As I said, I am pleased to hear all the efforts that have been made. However, the magistrates did not have to make these efforts, especially since they were already a substitute for the lack of human and material resources. This means that they are forced to work unbearable hours and in unhealthy premises. It was not up to them to further manage the lack of health protection equipment that had to be made available to them. With regard to the digitalisation of justice, measures have also been put in place. I am pleased to hear you say that a solution is under way with regard to timetables. It is essential to avoid, at the very least, unnecessary travel by lawyers. It is really important to move forward on this. Indeed, if there is one subject on which we all agree to move forward, and which is still slow, it is indeed the digitization of justice. If I asked you about this, it's really because the crisis brought this necessity back to the forefront of the scene. If our justice had been fully digitized, it would have been much more effective than during confinement. The delay in the digitization of justice has led to an even greater backlog of cases, and I sincerely regret that. I would like to see this crisis as an opportunity to accelerate our efforts in this area. Finally, with regard to visits to prisons, I am glad that the notice of strike could be lifted as security measures – which were lacking – were provided for staff, detainees and visitors, in consultation with the trade unions. This is an example of social consultation, as we must have in all sectors. I continue to regret the exclusion of children under 16 years of age from these visits. Paediatricians continued to insist that children should be able to return to school, that they should see their loved ones again for their mental health. Why is it different for these children who already have very little contact with their parents who are detained? What about their mental health today? You explain to us that underage children could not already meet their detained parents if they were not accompanied by an adult. They must now be able to be accompanied, at a time when the National Security Council (NSC) is relaxing the rules with regard to social contacts. I must note that the inmates remain the poor parents of the CNS decisions. We are two late wars! Why don't you make these visits to minors possible? Is this a point of friction with the unions? Are you of your own opinion that these visits are not possible or are they trade unions, for security reasons? I would like to have an answer on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that you have been able to reach an agreement with the trade unions and that additional measures have been agreed. Your answer to the masks intrigues me. Each visitor gets one and has to return it afterwards. You didn't tell me if they were surgical or reusable mouth masks. I hope the latter and I assume they will be washed and ironed at the right temperature. That intrigues me, because it's not that obvious. I am already pleased that prisons have reusable mouth masks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u36	Mrs De Wit, I have already said three times in the Chamber that the prisons make them themselves. They wash it at 60 degrees and iron it. It's a guard she irons with a mouth mask on. That's standard practice in prisons since the start of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u37	Then it is good, because that is and will remain important throughout the approach, despite the relaxations. I believe in that very strongly. I am curious to see how things are going in practice in prisons and I hope that it will go well, so that strike commitments are avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u39	Madam President, Minister, according to the French newspaper Le Monde, the Belgian security of the state of China suspects using a state-of-the-art building in Brussels to bug the EU institutions. The "Dar Malta" building is located directly opposite the headquarters of the European Commission and would be filled with high-tech listening devices. The "Dar Malta" building houses Malta's representation to the EU, including Malta's embassy. This makes it difficult for police forces and governments to find out what is going on, given diplomatic immunity. Malta joined the European Union in 2004. It bought the building in Brussels and had it completely renovated. That renovation was paid for in full by China. Some places have armored walls and bulletproof glass. There's no expense saved. The building would be incredibly secure, with cameras, motion sensors and other equipment. When Maltese services moved into the building, the furniture and other accessories would have been transferred from China to that building. It is remarkable that such a small country buys such a building instead of renting, especially in such a central and expensive location. Much larger countries are housed in much cheaper buildings, which they rent instead of buying. According to State Security, that espionage would have been going on for several years. Hence my next questions. Are you aware of this? What steps are you going to take? Has the Security of the State already shared its concerns about this with the European Commission? Have you already had contacts with the Maltese authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u40	Madam President, Minister, I will not give the same introduction again. It is a bit strange, of course, that two members of the same group are asking that question. I must tell you, however, that I had originally addressed my question to the Minister of Defence and Foreign Affairs. I apologize for this double agenda. That is why I shall now turn to the questions. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of the aforementioned information? Can you give us an explanation? My second question is addressed to you here, but I hope you will also be able to give some answers relating to the foreign affairs policy area. I hope you've already consulted on this. What steps have been taken in recent years to address the concerns about espionage that have appeared since 2010, if we can believe the statements of the Head of State Security? What measures will you take? To what extent are the ADIV and the State's security involved in the file? Has the intelligence service already shared its concerns with the European Commission and/or other bodies? What action has been taken on this? Has the government already come into contact with the embassy and the government of Malta to address this situation and express your concerns? What action has been taken on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken note of the article in Le Monde of 15 May, which, according to the security of the State, contained some fundamental inaccuracies. In 2007, there was a concern about visa applications for workers from a Chinese construction company who came to work at the Malta Embassy. At the time, State Security shared these concerns with Foreign Affairs and with the relevant security departments of the European Commission and the Council. The ADIV, the military intelligence agency, has not intervened. It was never about more than a concern and a warning. It has never been confirmed that Chinese construction companies did espionage or installed technical resources. The State Security has never accused Malta of facilitating espionage by the Chinese intelligence services. The case was discussed through the usual information channels between Belgium and Malta. The file in question was closed by the State Security in 2008, as it concerned unconfirmed concerns. The Security of the State is responsible for the monitoring of espionage and interference, and the security of the international institutions on our territory is, among other things, within this framework. There is a regular structured exchange of information between the European Union and the State Security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u42	Minister, it would only be conjecture, but there will be no answer to a number of things that are not correct. The fact that such a small country can buy such a building and doesn't have to rent it must be investigated, along with other things that don't add up. It doesn't make any sense what's going on there. That needs to be further investigated. If this cannot be done by you, we will support it and use the necessary resources. Clearly, there's more going on here. My colleague will not reply, because she has already gone to another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u43	Mrs Gabriels is no longer present for her reply either. There are many committees running at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u44	Madam President, Minister, the title in the Journal of 29 April, "Proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to turnover taxes - Common system of value added tax: uniform basis of assessment" surprises me very much. It concerns Mrs Laurence Massart, not an undisputed figure, who was appointed by royal decree as a candidate for Belgium for the election of judges at the International Criminal Court in The Hague. In order to designate a candidate, several potential candidates have to appear before a jury of the Supreme Court of Justice. The 28 jurors have been secretly discussing it. A reconstruction of conversations shows that the French-speaking jurors gave the maximum number of points to Ms Massart, while the Dutch-speaking jurors did not. Candidate judges before the International Criminal Court should have an excellent record. However, we can see from the candidate proposed by Belgium that she has no excellent experience in criminal law and that her experience in international criminal law is very far-reaching. I haven't found a single publication of her either. Your cabinet says the procedure has been followed. After consulting the Council of Ministers, the King has decided. Ms Massart was ranked first on the list of candidates with competence in criminal law and criminal procedure by the Joint Appointment and Appointment Committee of the Supreme Court for Justice. At the Supreme Court of Justice, it sounds different. The Supreme Court states that as a minister you refer to the Supreme Court, but that the Supreme Court did not propose Mrs Massart. There was a choice. The Supreme Court of Justice has just been set up to prevent us from falling into old political culture. Ms Massart was appointed as the first President of the bilingual court of appeal in Brussels, but she is not even Dutch. This is the subject of a question for a preliminary ruling before the Constitutional Court, which we still have to wait for. Is her nomination to the International Criminal Court ahead of schedule, knowing that she will catch a bone and now has to move quickly to The Hague? Her candidacy shouldn't have been supported. Minister, does the government support the candidacy of someone who is ignorant of the Dutch language? Quid the lack of competence in the field of international criminal law? I have already pointed out that she has not published a single publication and has no experience whatsoever. What will you do to prevent the Supreme Court from becoming another club of like-minded people dealing with political appointments?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u45	Madam President, Mrs Bury, the qualifications to be met by candidates are laid down in Article 36 (3) of the Rome Statute. The procedure itself is strictly described in Article 42 of the Law of 29 March 2004 on cooperation with the International Criminal Court and the International Criminal Tribunals. The ranking of candidates in two lists, according to their profile practitioner or academic, shall be the exclusive competence of the Joint Appointment and Appointment Committee of the Supreme Court of Justice. In this committee there are 22 people from different sections of society, both magistrate and lawyer as well as academic world. You know, of course, that the legislative and judicial powers are responsible for the composition of the Supreme Court of Justice, not the executive. Ms Laurence Massart was ranked first on the first list by the Joint Appointment and Appointment Committee of the Supreme Court of Justice, as candidates with the profile practitioner, who have competence in criminal law and criminal procedural law. The appeal for the election of a judge in the International Criminal Court stated as language requirements that each candidate has an excellent knowledge of at least one of the working languages of the Court and speaks this language fluently, namely French or English. Only this language knowledge was investigated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u46	Thank you very much for explaining the procedure again, Minister. However, that is not really an answer to my question. You say that she should know no Dutch at all, only French or English. However, my question was whether the government would support such a candidate. Nor did you respond to the lack of competence. The Supreme Court of Justice really should not become a club to make political appointments again. This is Mrs. Massart's flight ahead. The government should not have supported this. That is a very sad thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u47	Madam President, Mr Crombez had a question during the topical debate. He has not been able to put it because he is on two other committees. Now he would like to ask that question at the end of the committee, if that is possible. I know that the topical and urgent debate has been completed in itself, but can that question be taken out of the debate and dealt with at the end of the committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u48	The topical and urgent debate has already been completed, so it is difficult to reopen. The questions can be retabled and they will be answered next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u49	It is only about a very small piece that is not so much related to the rest of the debate. It can be highlighted with a little good will.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u50	Sorry, but Mr Crombez could have been here for a while. The question can be resubmitted. Then it can be answered next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u51	Madam President, Minister, this question is somewhat out of date because it has already been put in plenary. At that time I noted that my question had been tabled but was not picked up to be taken to plenary. Mrs Van Vaerenbergh's question did. I therefore refer to my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u52	Have any new facts come to light in relation to these immigrant young people and the riots that took place in Anderlecht? How many have been identified, arrested, released? I do not know if there have been any changes since your statement last Thursday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u53	Madam President, Minister, I will not repeat everything. My question was also put before the plenary session. In the meantime, everyone has condemned all the actions. The footage of a bystander kicking the policeman until this groggy was shocking. We have all condemned it and it is important to look to the future. How can we avoid this? What can we do about it? My questions follow on from your reply in plenary. Is there any more information on the unsubs? You said they were identifying these. Violence against the police is totally unacceptable. We need to raise the penalty for violence against the police. Are there any other structural measures we can take?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u54	Minister, I have also tabled a question following the question in plenary because I have not yet received a full answer. I refer to the written presentation of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u55	Madam President, Mrs Bury and Mrs Slegers, I refer to my reply on last Thursday's dossier. With regard to the file on violence against police officers, the images of which were shared by the VSOA on social media, I can only inform you of the following information because of the public prosecutor's office. In the current phase of the investigation, nine bystanders were identified and four suspects arrested and arraigned. Three out of four were placed under arrest and the fourth released by the investigating judge under conditions. However, it still has an enforceable sentence of 12 months, for which it will be taken in detention and not under electronic supervision. Given the secret of the ongoing judicial investigation, no further details are provided for the time being. As far as police violence policy is concerned, as early as 2017, in response to my explicit question, the Executive Board of Attorney Generals issued the circular COL 10/2019 on the judicial handling of cases of violence against police forces. It clarifies and strengthens the procedures to be followed and the follow-up directives. The text speaks of a strong signal by providing a quick, effective, dissuasive and uniform judicial response to such an unacceptable fact. This circular establishes a zero tolerance policy, in the sense that an investigation will be opened of its own motion for all the facts of violence against the police, no matter how small. In addition, the circular also states that the case will be referred to the court if the facts are serious or repetitive or if the offender does not cooperate with the measure initially proposed by the magistrate. However, each case remains to be assessed individually by the magistrate, which is only normal and necessary. I would like to stress once again that an efficient policy approach requires far more than a purely criminal approach. It also requires sensitisation, early detection of problematic behavior and a societal approach to underlying problems that seem to stimulate violent behavior. In addition to the police force, this also means a local policy that tackles the breeding ground for crime, such as poverty of chance, a culture of violence, nuisance, ghetto formation and so on, with respect for local authorities and the police being taught and strengthened. In the context of an oral question, parquet statistics cannot be produced because of the workload. On the basis of the criminal record, 383, 436 and 430 sentences were handed down in the years 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively, on the basis of Article 280 of the Criminal Code. I would like to refer in particular to the local security policy for which the mayors are responsible in order to ensure an optimal approach to the minor crimes in Brussels. They must implement a comprehensive security policy with local police forces.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u56	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The 2018 circular sounds very promising. You are talking about zero tolerance, and that is what we have been asking for a very, very long time. However, the police union itself shared the images and said that everything has been minimized for 20 years. I quote: "Imagine that every citizen would commit violence because he doesn't have a garden. The signal that these young people need is a very strong signal, both from politics and from justice. The other 99% of the neighborhood residents, including from the other communities, are sick of it. We need to get a signal from mayors and ministers that there will be zero tolerance in these areas of violence and drug dealing." If such statements are made, then something of the 2018 letter is not yet implemented. They also claim that there is a huge difference with Ghent: in Ghent the letter is executed, but in Brussels it is simply the Wild West. Cops getting beat up, we'll be able to hear that all summer long. That has to be done. We are going to insist on that in committee. The police must be able to do their job and must also keep it liveable for all the other people who live there. So I really hope that you will work on that letter and that the zero tolerance will be put into practice. You have a great responsibility there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. Two things are important to us. A first element is the preventive approach. It must be done in the neighbourhoods themselves, in the streets of the neighbourhoods in Brussels and in other cities where there is sometimes unrest. Work needs to be done on the context in which small crime acts take place through community action, through support for neighbourhood workers and through street workers. Only in that way, by dealing with it together, will we get there. The second element is the tightening of the penalty for violence on the police. Mr Verherstraeten made a proposal in Parliament in the legislative proposal for the amendment of the Criminal Code. This is a second step which we can take in order to help solve this problem and to avoid this violence in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'm not sure, but I suspect I haven't gotten any answers to my questions again. However, I will read your answers in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament 55006428C by Mr Boukili was postponed. Mr Vanden Burre is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u60	Minister, about a week ago we heard in the press that Hans Van Themsche has applied to work outside of prison or to serve his sentence with an anklet. A court hearing, which had to rule on this matter, was postponed because the victims had not been invited to the hearing. They can also express their views on the application and perhaps indicate the conditions which they would like to see at least imposed. That was not possible because they had only been informed of the hearing a day before the hearing, hence the postponement. Involving victims in such decisions is the logic itself, must be an automatism, especially if we want to give justice a human face. These applications are very sensitive in human and social terms, especially for victims and relatives, in whom injuries have been made for life. That is the least we can do. But apparently the shoe is wringing there anyway. Was the cause of oblivion, failure of procedure or human error? The law stipulates that the victim must be informed of the day, the hour and the place of the hearing. But there is no time limit within which that must be done. Are you in favour of the idea of automatically inviting victims to the hearings, at least a few weeks in advance, and also legally anchoring them? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u61	I checked with the College of Attorney General. The protection of victims' rights in criminal proceedings is very important, as at the other stages of the criminal justice chain. In the present case, the Registry of the Criminal Court, which must write to the victims and summon them against the hearing, made a human error. The invitation had indeed taken place, but did not reach the right address in time. The court then postponed the case in order to ensure the rights of the victims to be properly heard. Together with the reference magistrates and victim reception of the prosecution, the case will be examined further, to eliminate any error in the future. If it is not possible to intervene in a purely operational way and if it proves necessary to change the legislation for this purpose, I am of course prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think it is indeed important that the human error be corrected. A mistake can always happen. It is important that we build in as many guarantees as possible, so that such situations do not repeat themselves as much as possible. It can be a particularly difficult and painful moment. I will also look into the dossier to see whether or not we should get into the pen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u63	Madam President, Minister, it is something else once again. It's not about COVID-19 for a while, and it's about corona fines. The media was suddenly dominated by something very different and also something very serious. We have all been informed through the media of a kidnapping and hostage-taking that lasted 42 days. A 13-year-old boy walked home after his kidnappers dropped him off at 1 km from his house. The boy would be in good health. The media has informed us that seven suspects have been arrested, five of whom would be radicalised Muslims. One of the suspects is even the notorious recruiter and Syrian warrior Bouloudo, who has already been convicted twice for terrorist crimes. Last year, the court of appeal sentenced him to ten years' imprisonment in three years' time. The purpose of the kidnapping would have been to get ransom from the family. That will show all the research, but that this could happen and that those people, especially those recruiter, were at large, frowns here and there. It is certainly not good for the image of the Justice Department today. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. In order to provide as much clarity as possible, can you share with us the correct information you have at your disposal on this matter, of course, as far as the investigation permits? Were the suspects already followed in the past by the Justice, Police and/or Security of the State? Were there any suspects currently being followed? If so, which suspects are involved and what were they sentenced in the past or are they being followed up at the moment? Can you explain on what grounds the court of appeal decided to convert the conviction at first instance of Bouloudo, at least an actual recidivist, into a minor sentence with delay? This is difficult for many people to grasp.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u64	Minister, I will not repeat myself. I would like to add a few details which I did not hear in Mr De Wit's introduction. When one enters the family to kidnap the child, the perpetrators are very heavily armed. They have protected cell phones that can't be bugged. I wonder how it is possible that someone who is on an OCAD list and is being followed by you can carry out a hostage situation. My other questions are similar to those of my colleague. How many people are currently being followed? What did the court appeal in the transposition into three years with delay? As for your responsibility, how do you feel about the fact that someone can walk freely? Surely we must protect the State from this kind of judge who makes such judgments, with the result of these situations? Maybe this is still happening in the future? After all, we do not know who is currently out there. How do you see your own responsibility in this? Are you going to take responsibility for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u65	After the kidnapping, the police were called in by the police. The police and all the services have done their utmost to initiate the investigation and to bring this tragic event to a successful conclusion. After all, the perpetrators were immediately apprehended. The arrest really made it clear that we have to count the perpetrators of radicalised Syrian fighters, who have multiple crimes on their hands. There is a strict separation of powers and we must abide by it. However, it is important to reverse the film and to look at what happened after the condemnation of this Syrian warrior. What are the findings after the steps taken by the various authorities which also had a responsibility in this dossier? What are the conclusions that we can draw from this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u66	Madam President, the members of the Committee on Justice and yourself know enough that I am very attached to the separation of powers and to the secret of the investigation. With respect for both of them, I would like to include my role as Minister of Justice in the dossier, in order to properly inform the legislature, in so far as that information can be reconciled with those two principles. The prosecution and police have therefore managed to track down a 13-year-old boy, protect his integrity and apprehend the suspects. They have done so in a very thoughtful and intensive way with a stake of seven days at seven and twenty-four hours at twenty-four. I cannot congratulate and thank them enough for that. Now that seven suspects have been apprehended, the role and motives of each of the possible perpetrators and the further evidence in the judicial investigation can be fully continued. In the context of what I would dare to call the tactical requirements and the secret of the investigation, I can and may inform you of the following information. One of the defendants was subject at the time of the facts to probation conditions imposed by a judgment of the Brussels Appeals Court of 29 May 2019 for facts of membership of a terrorist group. This judgment was made public after anonymisation by the court. I can therefore tell you the following conditions in the context of the trial: do not commit offences, have a permanent address, respond to the appeals of the Probation Commission and the judicial assistants and seek active employment and take up vocational training. Those conditions applied for a five-year probation period for which the sentence had been deferred. According to the law this person was therefore under the supervision of the Probation Committee and was subject to social supervision by the justice assistant of the Justice House. A social assistance involves monitoring compliance with the conditions and the further orientation and structuring of the person in the context of his probation. In the event of non-compliance with these conditions, the judicial assistant shall inform the Probation Commission and the Public Prosecutor. The public prosecutor and the police also have a duty to report infringements. As you know, the Probation Committee is a court presided over by a magistrate and assisted by two lay judges, namely a lawyer and a specialised civil servant. A member of the Public Prosecutor's Office is also always present at the hearing of the Probation Committee, as required by law. It is the judicial assistant who, in the cases and times provided for by law, must inform the probation committee about the supervision. The judicial assistant's reports shall be discussed and assessed during the meetings of the probation committee. Those meetings shall take place on a regular basis and in particular where a circumstance or a crisis situation so requires. The person concerned was thus already followed for a year and would appear again before the Probation Committee in the near future. In certain media it is suggested that the person concerned would have been guilty of new facts. My information is that after an investigation it would have turned out that this is not the case. Of course, there are no legal grounds for revoking the delay, at least that is the state of the case at the moment. Allow me to reply to the judgment of the Brussels Appeals Court of 29 May 2019 in which, in all independence and impartiality, the Court of Appeal delivered the following questions on the reduction of the penalty in respect of the first instance. I quote a few passages of the public oral statement by the press judge of the Brussels appeal court: "The Court has delivered a judgment of 45 pages in which a very precise analysis has been made of the facts and of all the legal arguments developed by the parties." The Pressmagistrate pointed out that the court has proved far fewer facts than the correctional court and has given those facts a different, less demanding qualification. In addition, the judge of the press stated, I quote: "The facts date back to 2013. In those circumstances, the court held that a three-year sentence could be sufficient for a postponement. Conditions are laid down, but compliance with those conditions is not a matter for the courts." The requalification of the facts indeed went from "leading person of a terrorist group" to "membership of a terrorist group." I can add that a draft law that I have tabled, which led to the law of 14 December 2016, provides for a much broader definition, and therefore the punishment of Article 140 (1) of the Criminal Code, which is the participation in any activity of a terrorist group. In this case, that provision of the penal law could not yet be applied to the criminal acts of the person concerned, given the non-retroactivity of the penal law. I would also like to say that I am in favour of it. I have said this repeatedly in this committee in order to extend the punishment of terrorist offences to include the provision of punishment for all terrorist offences and not just terrorist attacks. From the Sidis database, and already mentioned in the media, I can inform and confirm that another suspect withdrew from electronic surveillance on 21 February 2020 in the context of his pre-trial detention for offences resulting from disability. Thus, contrary to what was stated in some media, it was not about electronic supervision in the context of the execution of the sentence, but rather about pre-trial detention. After cutting the ankle bracelet, the suspect, as always happens in such cases, was immediately Policely terminated for escape and withdrawal from electronic surveillance. He was actively tracked down by the local police in the framework of the judicial investigation into the facts of the success. So there are now two investigations or prosecutions against this person. For the other five suspects, according to the Sidis database, I can report that they were no longer subject to legal conditions to be complied with, either because the sentence had been served, or because the sentence had been pronounced with simply deferment, whether partially or not. According to the Sidis database, they have in the past been sentenced to prison sentences, but not for terrorist offences or other similar serious crimes. Several suspects were succeeded in the past by the security services because of their involvement in the extremist scene in Belgium. One suspect is now included in the joint database of the OCAD, the so-called GGB. Two others were included in the database in the past. They were not awarded a status after evaluation by the OCAD or they lost their status because of insufficient elements. These three individuals and two other suspects were regularly discussed by the respective local task forces, where the Belgian security partners present exchange information and take collective decisions on the measures to be taken. The local task forces are basically organised once a month. Cases such as the suspect in this file, which is also included in the GGB database, are therefore discussed at least once a month through the local task force. This does not, of course, mean waiting for the task force to share important information. I will not give any information on the concrete measures, but they may go from intelligence to judicial investigation. However, they may also consist, cumulatively, of administrative follow-up, the so-called grooming approach, supervision by justice houses under conditions or a socio-preventive follow-up in the framework of the local integrated security cell. Therefore, except in cases where special research methods are used, these are monitoring and follow-up. That does not mean that the person is followed 24 hours at twenty-four hours. This system is not watertight, but no system can be if it takes into account the principles of the rule of law and the fact that the resources of the services are not unlimited. This also means that one must always question oneself in order to improve the system. The suspects in the hostage file show a link with both general crime and radicalism. We do not yet know whether the element of radicalism has been important or decisive. This is the subject of the ongoing judicial investigation. It is clear, however, that this matter should be used to examine the system of follow-up of radicalised persons and to see if it can be improved. Finally, Mrs Bury, I would like to return to your opinion, which was your fourth question, on the ruling of the Court of Appeal. You are talking about the lack of a self-purifying mechanism of the judicial system to avoid this kind of error and about the duty of the Minister of Justice to protect society from such judges. Let me reply briefly by simply referring to the constitutional separation of powers, to the national and international principles of the rule of law, the rule of law and human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u67	First of all, Minister, I would like to join with the researchers who have managed to bring this matter to a successful conclusion. It was a fine job of the police, and that can certainly be said. Indeed, last year we strengthened the legislation on terrorism. However, the case before us today demonstrates the challenges we face as legislators, but also the challenges facing justice. You really need to take that sticking-up approach. I am pleased that you have read the judgment of the Court of Appeal, but given the history of the person concerned, I really cannot understand that the conditions imposed, as far as standard conditions are concerned, did not impose deradicalisation. That is a question we should be able to ask ourselves. Perhaps that would be a task for the legislator to impose this obligation in such cases, in such a history. This has not been imposed. Apparently, the terms were violated, too. The Probation Committee has not or has not yet intervened. There are a lot of questions that can and should be asked here today. It is also important that we act and act properly, not only for the police, but also for the Justice Department. After all, you see what it can lead to. There are new facts, and now it ends well for the boy, but we have to be very careful, especially given the history, such as involvement with attacks in Spain. This could have ended differently. You spoke about our proposal on succession, especially to the end of the sentence, when the conditions are over. Then this extra stick behind the door, namely the posting, can certainly be used. Our bill's down. The Court of Auditors' opinions are here. I have noted your support, Minister. I'm grateful for it, too. It will be one of the tools that should be able to help with better and stricter follow-up. If that is not enough, we must dare to go even further, including in this Chamber. I know that there are few majorities to be found around the taking of nationality and the like. Those are difficult exercises. We really need to go for a global package. This can't be happening. Society must be protected. That is a core task of the government. If we can help as legislators, we will certainly do so. We expect everyone to take responsibility for that. As police have done, we also ask and hope that the Justice Department does so. If we can provide an additional tool in this House, we must do the same. Our proposal is down. I will try to get that back on the committee's agenda soon. I hope, therefore, that we can find a majority in favour of this, so that the follow-up can become much stricter and clearer, so that, hopefully, incidents like this can no longer occur.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u68	Mr. Secretary, what you're telling us here is another hallucinating story. You're talking about the probation committee and the probation conditions. The person involved, one of the perpetrators, had to find a job and have a permanent address, as you have all nicely listed. But were those conditions also met? You didn't answer that question. That will be covered by the secret of the investigation, which you have repeated several times. However, you do not answer our questions and the questions of the people in the street: are we safe from such types? I'm sure of one thing. That hostage situation lasted 42 days. During those 42 days, the judicial assistant will have noticed that the person concerned was not looking for a job. After all, he was holding that boy. If such matters cannot be dealt with ad brakely, then the system is as leaky as a sieve and there is nothing to be done with it. You also say that radicalism was not decisive and that the court considered three years with delay sufficient, since the person concerned was only a member of a terrorist organisation. However, the resolution of this hostage situation was co-operated with both Dutch, French and American intelligence services. If it was only membership and the person had never been recruited, such important actors would never have acted. The system is as leaky as a sieve. I am glad that you say you will make improvements, and I really hope that you will do so. It is not just about posting, but also, as my colleague said, about heavier punishment and the removal of nationality. Such matters are really needed. People like that don't belong here anymore. If, after their torment, they continue and even add a little more, then it is not for the benefit of society. In the last part of your answer you are talking about the rule of law and the separation of powers. Well, I remember when I was a young girl, Dutroux escaped and was arrested by a ranger and the then Minister of Justice resigned because of that escape. I don't see such matters in politics anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u69	Minister, I would like to thank you. Unlike my colleague, I think you have replied very comprehensively. There is the secret of the investigation, and yet you have given us three or four pages of answers on what each service has done, to date, in terms of research and what it is doing. As far as we are concerned, we are confident that the investigation will continue. A prison sentence, ladies and gentlemen, admit it, does not reduce the risk of recurrence, quite the contrary. A second aspect that is very important is that we continue to focus on deradicalisation programmes and reintegration into our society, together with the other authorities which also have their role to play in this process, in particular the regional authorities and the justice houses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u70	In February 2020, I announced in this Commission that the projects of transition homes are going through a learning process, with the results of the evaluations being important for the further start-up and enlargement. In the meantime, the competent department within my administration has started to do so. The evaluation schedule is structured around the following axes: the processes, the legislative framework and the financial part. As far as the trials are concerned, the entire route of influx, flow and outflow of convicted persons is under review. This is about numbers but also and above all about quality. Significant questions include whether the correct profiles of convicted persons were selected, whether the placement plans were sufficiently prepared, how the placement plans were further implemented during the stay in the transition house, whether incidents occurred and how they were responded to. It is, of course, also intended to check whether this legislative framework is adequate. These include the standards to be met by a transition house, the sharing of information between the transition house and the mother's prison and the interplay of the modality of placement with the modalities of leave permit and penitentiary leave. Of course, the funding mechanism of the various components should also be included in the monitoring of the quality of the project. Finally, the evaluation also includes a reflection on the future of this small scale detention and the lessons learned are taken into account. It has been effective from the outset to provide a capacity of about 100 places. The most appropriate formula for this enlargement is part of the evaluation outlined above. Final choices have therefore not yet been made and will be submitted to the Council of Ministers for validation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u71	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. We'll be happy to follow it up with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u72	Mr Segers, the intention is indeed to bring into force the law on external legal status for those sentenced with sentences of up to three years. This means that the criminal execution judge will have jurisdiction over the decisions on release, electronic supervision and limited detention. The date of entry into force is scheduled for 1 October 2020. I have asked the College of Courts and Courts, the College of Attorneys General and the three Communities responsible for the Courts of Justice to give an opinion on the feasibility of that date or whether a delay is more appropriate, given the problems that the current corona crisis creates for the sectors. I am certainly in favour of differentiated punishment. This differentiation translates from an infrastructure point of view into two axes: on the one hand, providing prison capacity with a lower level of security and, on the other hand, infrastructure concepts which should allow more flexible adaptation to the various profiles of detainees. The latter is achieved by building future prisons from living units that are more adaptable to various profiles in terms of size and equipment, but also allowing them to lead a more normal life within prisons. In that sense, that concept is a variant of small scale within a larger whole. Transition homes are an excellent combination of both objectives and can effectively contribute to ensuring that those sentenced with short sentences, which until now are not usually physically locked up in a classical prison, can from the outset stay in an environment that bears as little as possible the disadvantages of classical confinement. The objective of differentiation effectively represents a change from the classic classification rules, which are mainly based on the duration of the sentence, except in the case of open establishments. The new classification rules will be the resultants of the interplay of the legal status of the prisoner, the security profile, the degree of socialisation and the aspects of vulnerability. It is obvious that within the group of 18- to 25-year-olds there are several profiles. Finally, a coherent set of differentiated regimes can only be fully realised if the aid and services offered by the federated entities are included.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u74	Thank you, Mr Segers, for your suggestions, of which I can understand the vision. However, I do not believe that the Voogdij service can take over powers or tasks from other bodies. The Voogdij department is authorised to examine whether a person complies with the definition of unaccompanied minor. He then orientates the young people to the authorities responsible for care, Fedasil or the Communities. Finally, the Voogdij service designates guardians he selects, trains, supports and evaluates. Contracts such as border control, the identification of unaccompanied minors and the provision of social services are not part of the tasks. It's legal. Moreover, they are often highly specialised tasks in which the competent police officers and experts have to comply with special profiles. In doing so, neither passengers nor stowaways are able to monitor for themselves twenty-four hours on twenty-four, seven days on seven or actively participate in police operations on motorways or in parks. The idea of setting up a registration centre where all authorities take care of unaccompanied minors from their specialty can certainly be investigated in the future. However, it does not seem optimal to organise such an effect immediately when an unaccompanied minor is found. On arrival, these young people are often exhausted and stressed. Taking an interview and assessing the vulnerability and needs can therefore be emotionally very difficult. It is therefore in their interest that young people should first be taken to a quiet and safe place where they can obtain. Finding that peace takes a few days and is best done in the observation and orientation centers of Fedasil, whatever happens in practice. My view therefore remains that each body must play its legal role. However, the Voogdij Service works closely with its partners, for example the police, the Foreign Affairs Office and Fedasil, to improve the detection of unaccompanied minors. Moreover, the Voogdij service has specialised guardians, who can move immediately at the time of a description. From Justice we focus mainly on the cooperation between the Voogdij department and its partners, and we want to invest more in the search and form of competent guardians. It is essential that the Voogdij and the guardian continue to play their unique role. Young people must be able to trust them fully. Taking up too many other assignments could potentially damage that confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will certainly come back to it in detail later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u76	Madam President, Minister, in corona times I must not convince you that more and more people are in financial difficulties. I am afraid that we can expect that the requests for collective debt control will increase in the future. I would like to return to the law of 25 December 2016, which ordered the various counters in our country to establish and manage a joint register for collective debt settlement. This register should ensure that the collective debt settlement procedure is more efficient and that the offices of labour law banks are relieved of their secretarial functions, which would be positive for those in need, the debt intermediaries and the staff of the judiciary. This is a good thing for everyone, but despite the fact that the law entered into force on 9 January 2017, we note that there is still no register. It is therefore feared that the people most in need of this protection, and those numbers may increase in the future, will not receive the protection they need. Firstly, what is the status of the establishment of this platform? When will that platform be available? Secondly, how is the procedure for collective debt regulation currently going? Have any steps been taken towards a digital process or is everything still processed manually and on paper? That often causes a number of delays. Thirdly, how many files were submitted in the judicial year 2018-2019 and the following year? How many files are in the waiting list? Fourthly, why is the platform still not operational more than three years after the entry into force of the law? Fifth, why doesn't the Justice Department take care of the platform itself? Is it appropriate for the lawyer to do this? Could that also be done by the Justice Department? Sixthly, what will be the cost to the user if the platform will be set up and managed by the Justice Department or by a private partner on behalf of the Justice Department? Finally, the absence of the register is causing damage and there are financial consequences due to the corona crisis. What can you do to intervene quickly and to change it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u77	Mrs Depraetere, with regard to the impact of the COVID-19 crisis, those already in collective debt control are protected from further implementation. For people affected by the crisis, the government has taken various measures, e.g. due to a lack of liquidity. The instructions of the National Chamber of Court Bailiffs and the provisions of the Law of 20 May 2020 also provide relief. I do not see how the lack of a digital platform would harm the seeker. The financing of the register should be laid down by royal decree. The law was also amended in this area, which caused delays. The budget for provisional twelfths hampers a simple consolidation of the royal decree. This is a written procedure whereby the debt intermediaries, the interested parties concerned and the Registrys communicate with each other at a distance. For the year 2018, no statistical data are yet available that have been validated by the College of Courts and Courts. The time limit within which the court decides on the admissibility of applications shall always be eight days. As regards the role of the legal profession, since the implementation of the Justice Plan, it has been chosen to organise the modernisation movement together with the relevant actors of Justice, which has already led to the successful creation of multiple platforms in the legal profession, including RegSol. That last proposal shows that the lawyer is capable of doing so. The FPS Justice is also closely involved in this joint modernisation movement and gives priority to the roll-out of the Central Register for Directors today. In any case, the cost to the user is zero euro. In the legal base of the Central Register, there is no legal basis on which the administrator could support fees if he wanted to charge them to the user.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u78	Minister, the federal government has taken measures, which we naturally welcome. Many measures have also been taken by Parliament. However, now that we say that the impact of the corona crisis on the ground is completely gone, it is a fact that we find it difficult to estimate. We cannot judge today's period of impact and may drag on for a very long time. The measures taken may be positive, but I fear that it will be wrong to say that the impact of these measures will be limited. That is not what we hear from the social services in the field and certainly not from the social services that work in large cities. Apart from the corona crisis, it is quite appropriate that the system of collective debt regulation should be re-evaluated and that it should be verified whether it is the best way to help people out of debt. The Belgian Anti-Poverty Network has made an incredibly interesting study in this area. In any case, our group will take a number of initiatives to this end.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-03-55-commissie-ic193x.u79	We are through our agenda with questions and can therefore close the sitting. Thank you, Minister.
