ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic310x.u1	Mr Secretary of State, it has been a long time since I submitted an interplay, I think, for six years, but I would like to tell you about a matter on which I have also recently sent you a letter, namely the situation on our south-west Schengen border, on the Canary Islands, of which we see a lot of problematic images. Mr Van Langenhove also questioned you about it in plenary last week. There used to be problems there with illegal influx and human trafficking. We are seeing them again now. The problems arose a few weeks ago. A lot of people are getting there right now. You may also have taken note of the article in El Pais which exposes the smuggling networks and the mafias behind them. It's a very interesting article. It reads, among other things, that it was agreed at a certain time in a number of villages or by the Spanish authorities, which is not entirely clear to provide hotel care for a fee of EUR 45 per person per day. It's some sort of "Spanish Fedasil grant" to hotel operators. Those hotels are empty because of the corona crisis and that way shelter is provided. There are also tent camps. I understand that they are completely full and that there are poignant situations. There are also more and more deaths. That makes sense. Winter's approaching. The sea is getting wilder. Certainly the Atlantic is becoming a lot wilder. It is therefore really necessary to intervene, Mr Secretary of State. I have sent you a letter asking you to contact your Spanish colleague or the Spanish embassy to ask what policy is being pursued there. What shall we do? You say you've already contacted us. My first question was whether that conversation has already taken place. It is really necessary to encourage Spain as soon as possible to seek a solution bilaterally with Morocco, as has been done in the past. Reception in hotels must be stopped as soon as possible. Nearly 12 years ago at Secretary of State Wathelet, people were already hospitalized in hotels. I saw what that brought about. This creates a huge suction effect, even though they are not luxury hotels at all, but hotels with only basic comfort. At that time we saw that this measure attracts a lot of people and feeds a lot of rumors. In this way, even more people take the dangerous journey. Both at European level and bilaterally, an agreement must be concluded as soon as possible. What have you done in the meantime? Do you have any news on that? What's your opinion on the hotel shelter? How do we best deal with the situation at our southwest external border?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic310x.u2	Thank you, Mr Francken, for the interplay. I am pleased that you are asking this question on a very important issue. I did receive a letter from you and a day later I also received a question from Mr Van Langenhove in plenary. I made it clear at that time that we already sent out a question for a meeting on 15 November, both with the Ambassador and with my Spanish colleague. The maintenance will take place tomorrow. So it hasn't happened yet. We did send a reminder to get the maintenance done as soon as possible. After the letter of 15 November, I can tell you that we will have a meeting tomorrow in which we will discuss it. During the plenary session I told Mr Van Langenhove that there was also a discussion with the Moroccan ambassador last week. Today, the issue is about Gran Canaria, but all the members of the committee are well aware that such a problem is not just about one country, but about a number of countries that have to accept their responsibilities. We must therefore try to talk as much as possible to the countries at the external borders. Over the next two weeks, I have another meeting with the Tunisian Ambassador, with the Egyptian Ambassador and with the Algerian Consul General. This week, if I am not mistaken, I also saw the Italian ambassador. I could give you the list, but at least it is important that these talks take place at this stage, especially with the European colleagues on the European Migration Pact that needs to be established. As far as the countries at the external borders are concerned, these talks are particularly important in the context of the readmission agreements and for the proper organisation of our asylum policy, which is also affected by what is happening in those countries. As far as Spain is concerned, I have already told Mr Van Langenhove in plenary that Spain also has a responsibility to take fingerprints, to register people and to set up an infrastructure to enable identification. The latter happens, by the way. Additional infrastructure has been set up by the Spanish authorities to improve identification and we expect Spain to continue to play that role and to ensure effective compliance with European rules. Those rules are very clear for Belgium, but also for Spain. So my conversation with my Spanish colleague will be constructive, because we both know that we need to move towards a more structural solution in the longer term, but in the short term we expect Spain to comply with European rules. I have already said a few times how we see things in the longer term. We must not create a new Lesbos. I understand your concern about a suction effect, and that is a legitimate concern, which we must take into account in our policies. Europe has a certain responsibility, just like Belgium and Spain. In addition, we need to work especially in the longer term and think about how we can ensure that people who are using one of the most dangerous routes today... For the sake of clarity, that route was not actually used anymore: at some point they stopped using it, because it was too dangerous, and they started exploring other routes. It is not good for anyone, especially for those people in the first place, that they are using that route again today, with one chance at 24 to drown on the road, regardless of all the risks they take afterwards. They take such a risk, while the answer for economic migrants is ultimately that there is no solution and no future for them in Europe. We must therefore work towards better agreements. Hence the negotiations currently taking place bilaterally and multilaterally at European level to ensure stronger external borders and to ensure that people at the border are immediately identified. According to the new European Migration Pact, they should be identified within five days and, if identified as economic migrants, they will be returned immediately. I think that we will have to make a huge effort to do so, as we will continue to see such things as long as we do not have a new and better answer to this story. We're working on that in the long run. Meanwhile, in the short term, we are literally trying to understand this, especially tomorrow, in cooperation with our Spanish colleagues, to ensure a good policy, in which everyone complies with European rules and in which we rely on Spain to do what is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic310x.u3	Mr Secretary of State, thank you for your answer. I am pleased that you are also talking about the long-term vision, but I do not share it at all. We've already debated that. I no longer believe in a model where asylum and right of residence can be obtained after an illegal journey to Europe. I don't believe in that anymore, I've stepped away from it, because that's an old worn-out paradigm that one can't get out of. On Doorbraak in the podcast at David Geens today I read that you cite all possible misconceptions to refute that. That's how you say we're not gonna send people back to war zone, that you're not gonna defend a model like that. However, it would be good for you to answer intellectually honestly. However, I have not yet noticed any of that. The reasons you cite to claim that the model would not work are elements that do not even exist in our model. In the coming weeks and months, we will discuss this very often. I hope to be able to convince you of this after a number of months or years of practical experience. Anyway, as long as the possibility of stay exists, I think the suction effect remains too great, especially in combination with hotel care. You say to understand that such a thing creates a suction effect and that you try to avoid suction effects as much as possible. Between the lines you admit that you also think that this creates a suction effect. That is why I asked you to discuss this with the Spanish ambassador, to ask that the hotel reception stop as soon as possible. It is a matter of Spanish competence, but you can ask it, there is nothing wrong with that. I note that you will have that conversation tomorrow, so in the next few days or weeks I will question you about its course. Probably or hopefully I'll hear about it, because I suspect you'll communicate about it, as it certainly concerns a lot of people. In addition, it is of course good to maintain diplomatic contacts with Morocco, Tunisia, Algeria and Italy. Those countries are very important partners. In my view, it is the crucial players to close the external border in such a way that illegal international human trafficking is finally dried out. I do not see them in your policy paper and not in the European Migration Pact, and unfortunately I do not hear them here either. It's gonna last. We will be faced with this permanently, if it is not via the south-west border, then it is via the south-east border or elsewhere, but the migratory pressure on the European external borders will not stop with the policy you advocate. That's impossible. I have to say that, as you may know, Morocco is getting quite a bit of money just to avoid this and therefore effectively to do better border controls. That's what the country's been getting money for years, and it's gonna get money for years. That is not the point, but I do not quite understand exactly what is going on in Western Sahara. It is, of course, also a controversial area. You know the whole story. This problem remains particularly sensitive. Mr President, I have a motion of recommendation which I will now table.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-02-55-commissie-ic310x.u4	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Theo Francken and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr. Theo Francken and the reply of the State Secretary for Asylum and Migration, in charge of the National Lottery, attached to the Minister for the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - having regard to the current problem of illegal boat migration from Morocco across the Atlantic to the Canary Islands and in particular to Gran Canaria, - having regard to the hotel reception in the Canary Islands, subsidised by the Spanish authorities for a fee of EUR 45 per day and per person, - having regard to the risk of death during this life-threatening crossing with all too often shaky boats, - whereas this government is committed to the fight against illegal migration to Europe; - considering that the government intends to pursue a priority policy to combat human trafficking; - whereas hotel care after illegal entry into the EU cannot be justified and creates a high suction effect, asks the government - to immediately launch talks, whether through the European Gremia or not, with Spain, to find solutions to this pressing problem of dangerous sea crossing between Morocco and Gran Canaria, with the aim of stopping reception in hotels as quickly as possible by addressing the issue of origin, so that there are no humanitarian crises, i.e. tackling the illegal migration route, including by providing for repatriation with Morocco in the event of illegal migration of non-refugees; - to start talks immediately, whether through the European Gremia or not, with Morocco, to discuss how, despite European support, thousands of migrants are illegally crossing from Morocco to Gran Canaria and how, from a humanitarian point of view, this problem can be dealt with immediately. A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Theo Francken and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Theo Francken and the reply of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, in charge of the National Lottery, Deputy to the Minister of the Interior, Institutional Reforms and Democratic Renewal, - in view of the current problem of illegal boat migration in the Atlantic Ocean between Morocco and the Canary Islands and in particular Gran Canaria, - having regard to the taking over of these migrants in hotels in the Canary Islands, subsidized by the Spanish Government up to EUR 45 per day and per person, - in view of the risk of drowning during this perilous crossing too often carried out on old boats, - Whereas the current government is focusing on combating illegal migration to Europe, - Considering that the current government has made the fight against trafficking in human beings one of its priorities - Whereas hotel accommodation after illegal entry into EU territory is unjustifiable and creates a huge air call; demands that the government - to start immediately, through the European Union or not, discussions with Spain in order to find remedies for this worrying phenomenon which causes migrants to risk their lives in order to carry out the crossing between Morocco and Gran Canaria; to put an end to hotel accommodation as soon as possible by tackling the problem of origin, so as to avoid any humanitarian crisis, which means, therefore, to cut off the road to illegal migration by providing with Morocco, as has been done with Senegal and Mauritania in particular, for the organisation of the repatriation of illegal migrants who cannot qualify for refugee status, - to start immediately, through the European Union or not, discussions with Morocco in order to determine the reasons why, despite European aid, thousands of migrants nevertheless illegally cross from Morocco to Gran Canaria and to examine how to deal with this problem immediately from a humanitarian point of view." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Franky Demon. A simple motion was tabled by Mr. Franky Demon. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
