ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u1	Mr. Chair, Minister, in an interview released this Monday, May 4, the CEO of SNCB indicated that controls would be put in place on trains and stations to check whether passenger travel is essential or not. More specifically, it announced that "it is not SNCB that will control whether the journeys made are essential or not. The police will be able to carry them out, as is currently the case on the roads. Our Securail agents will be able to assist the police in these tasks. But it is up to the police to ensure the enforcement of the laws, including the restriction of movement and the wearing of the mask." Could you, Minister, provide me with information on the organisation of these controls on railway stations and trains? What are the specific tasks of the police and the Securail officers? What are the planned numbers? What sanctions will be applied?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u2	I don't see Mrs. De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u3	She'll be in another committee meeting. I shall give a brief explanation after the questions have been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u4	I would simply add that, last Wednesday, we have heard from the Director General of the AFCN, and it has emerged, in particular, that the Federal Nuclear Emergency Plan did not at all provide for the possibility of a simultaneous incident or a nuclear accident with a pandemic, as we know it at present. Minister, how have you updated or intend to update the Federal Nuclear Emergency Plan to deal with this possibility - which is obviously an aggravating factor - of a pandemic, such as VOCID-19?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u5	Mrs Dierick is going to apologize for this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u6	Minister, allow me to address a key issue that is the monitoring of shops by local police areas. We already see the reopening today with a number of lines in front of the shops and a series of instructions to the communes. I won't hide our astonishment from you. All mayors have received instructions from you on Friday, May 8th at the end of the day. They had also already taken up a number of recommendations and guidelines. In addition to the late nature, there is also the fact that they have not been consulted, that police areas face enormous complementary tasks and the risk of geographical inconsistency. Some municipalities or police areas could interpret these guidelines differently. A number of mayors of large cities have called you in response to the dispatch of your instructions. They told you that some could not be implemented because too complicated with such diverse situations from one shopping street to another, from one shopping centre to another. I would really like to hear from you on this issue. What do you say to those burgers who call you and who sound the alarm bell? We know it's a key issue to enforce the guidelines, but I feel a little bit like the federal government issued instructions that it then balanced with the municipalities by saying, "Get out of the way!" On the other hand, we know that this will be a complementary burden because crime does not stop. Police areas must continue their core missions. Are you planning a federal police reinforcement? Are you planning a supplementary envelope to be allocated to police areas for these very important tasks? We should not be told in a few days that the police areas have not been able to carry out these tasks and that, therefore, there is a risk of a rebound because the rules simply could not be respected. Municipalities play a fundamental role in the crisis. They have remained straight on the boat without tanguing, but here, you must clearly be able to consult with them and give them additional support and resources so that they can carry out these missions and not just swing a note before the start of a weekend. I really want you to realize that the mayors are doing everything they can. They should not be overtaken by events because the measures would not have been concerted and because they would not correspond to what was actually happening on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u7	Mr President, Minister, the press is increasingly echoing the concern of many Member States of the European Union about the impact on their economies of the closure of borders, and the impact certainly on the tourist countries of the closure of borders during the summer. We are increasingly hearing some States preparing bilateral agreements, including Austria with Germany. We are also talking about countries that promote – Poland and Romania are resuming the promotion for summer holidays. The question undoubtedly arises for the future (...) And if the reopening of borders is a question for all, it must be at the level of (...) Can you tell me (...) Belgium has taken in this regard? And if not, why has this subject not been addressed since it is there in the very short term (...) There is the economic, social pressure (...) of the health interests of all and all in the decisions that will be taken. We need to move forward in a common direction of partial, total opening of borders and according to what criteria in this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u8	Do other groups wish to join the topical and urgent debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u9	Mr President, first of all I would like to say that Mrs De Wit's question No. 55005798C prefers to postpone. Mr Minister, I just have a double remark. As of yesterday or today, a new phase in the exit strategy or planning has entered into force which also changes the work for the police. There is now much more recourse to the sense of responsibility of the people. Control will also be more difficult. The control of the so-called curfew ban will become more difficult, as all shops may be open and restrictions have largely disappeared at work. Moreover, the ban on so-called non-essential movements will also be partly different because it will be much more difficult to control them. My questions are as follows. Have you adopted the GPI guidelines, whether or not through the Task Force GPI, which you created, with regard to the enforcement of the new rules, as they have been in force since yesterday? How will the police carry out the checks on the road? How will the police avoid creating problems in places where, for example, too many people go shopping? Finally, I would like to make a comment: you have already responded to it in the press this weekend with regard to the family visit across the border. In a number of Limburg border municipalities, the mayors have taken a position, which I can understand very well on the basis of the text of the ministerial decision itself. It's not always very clear what it is and what it isn't. The regulation around the so-called bubbles, which is the maximum number of four people who are allowed to receive and visit, is in itself a clear rule. Applied to a number of concrete cases, we nevertheless notice inconsistencies. The same applies to the second-last resort scheme, which remains difficult. The coastal mayors are not always on the same page. I would like to have your clear position on this once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u10	Mr Donné, I have to say that Mrs De Wit's question has been included in the topical and urgent debate and that the answer will be given. You can't let the question be postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u11	Mr Minister, we had not tabled any additional questions, but we would also like to use the topical debate to ask for your explanations on a number of issues. The shops are opening today. The experts said both open and hidden that it was too early. This was very clear. We consider a relaunch of the economy to be very important. People want to work, people want to get out, people want to get money into their accounts, but this has to be done in a safe way. A survey shows that four out of five Limburgers did not intend to go shopping immediately. If I see the footage today, I'm gonna ask myself some questions. In other provinces that will be no different. Many shops will also stay closed or work only by appointment. It is clear that security must be guaranteed, even in the economic sphere, with a view to consumer confidence. We need to get out of our barf, but we need to be safe. We've heard it today. Several mayors have announced that they did not receive the guidelines from your cabinet until Friday evening to manage the shopping visits through the municipal administration. Consequently, there was no time and consultation with the federal level to exchange experiences or discuss the appropriate measures. We are also looking forward to the easing of the lockdown, let that be clear, but that is why we need to take our time, discuss and think carefully. Better too slow than too fast, I heard your group chairman say. I'd love to hear him say that, by the way. That is why we must not allow economic interests to dictate the agenda. I therefore call for consultation and consensus. A lot of mayors do their best. That's pretty obvious. We can already see that the population is very doubtful about the relaxation. It's a marathon, it's not a sprint. I heard from you again last week that you are not involved in the coastal mayors' meeting. That's what worries me. Because the possibility of maintaining the rules in that discussion is important, I believe that your vote is certainly in place there, also because you are responsible for security in the National Security Council. The day-tourists also see their chances of going to the coast more and more clearly. We heard the statements of the mayor of Blankenberge. This shows that the coastal mayors are under pressure from the hotels and the second-pastors. The PVDA-PTB Group has every respect and understanding for this difficult situation in which the catering industry finds itself. The catering industry deserves more support, but it is the task of the federal government to ensure that the voice of day tourists is also heard. I do not need to explain that excluding them will not be without social consequences. People who have been locked up in a small apartment for months now deserve to have the view to possibly blow out on the coast, of course as far as possible. If these people aren't part of the thinking exercise, I'm very disappointed. I strongly urge you to work on this and to claim your place in the consultations and in defending the people's right to domestic tourism at the National Security Council. Travelling abroad is already prohibited until 8 June, with a view to extending this period. Many Belgians have a relationship abroad. For them, looking forward to each other is a double feeling. It's part of their relationship, but it's also an ordeal over and over again. People with a relationship abroad also need a perspective, especially now that it is unclear when traffic gets back on track abroad. The poet Pablo Neruda already asked the question: "Who sees the most? Those who must always miss someone or those who have no one to miss?" In the absence of a European approach, the surveillance of Belgian borders is understandable. If we want to keep this up for a long time, we must also work on international coordination. I call on you to take into account the group of people with a relationship or family abroad in the surveillance of borders and to consult your foreign minister on this. Clear agreements must be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u12	Mr Colebunders, can you finish? You have already gone over your time for more than two minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u13	I'll finish up. For these reasons, I ask for your opinion on the appeal of the Dutch border mayors to allow family visits across the border.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u14	Minister, the subject has already been raised by the two previous speakers. I too live at the border, at two borders: a provincial border and a border. I saw what happened there this weekend. How do you look back on this? I can understand very well that it was unclear for a lot of people. The governor of one province decided it was allowed, while the people on the other side of the provincial border were not allowed to do it. That doesn't make any sense. Minister, it is good that you have taken a position on this. How do you look back on that? What are you going to do in the near future? What is the purpose of this? What are you going to do about mayors who say foert and ignore this? How do you look as a minister on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I will be brief. My first question concerns the wearing of masks in shopping malls. The National Security Council did not consider it useful to take a clear decision. He recommends, he does not prohibit. I believe that this can be deplored at the end of the day, because we leave a great deal of weight on the shopping centres themselves and on the municipalities which can, of course, take police orders, but which are left in front of their own responsibilities. I think imposing the wearing of the mask in the shops by order would have been a relevant measure in the public space. Secondly, I agree with a previous question. Indeed, a large number of mayors received from you last Friday, May 8 at around 5 p.m., at the end of the day, a ministerial letter relating to the management of public space asking to organize access and control to the shops. For many mayors, this is simply not a way of working. Apart from the fact that this circular – which is more precisely a ministerial letter, which is not quite the same in administrative law – arrived very late, it may be devoid of effectiveness because some municipalities have told us that unless we use the Federal Reserve, control of access to the shopping malls cannot be assumed by the law enforcement agencies present and the means at their disposal. Question five: Why not send out a formal regulatory circular, and what can be done to respond to the municipalities that are making remarkable investments during this crisis and that feel that they are not in a position to mobilise the bodies of their areas in an optimal way to control (...)?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u16	Mr President, I did not understand Mr. From Smet on the Regulatory Circular and then...?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u17	If you hear me correctly now, why not take a proper regulatory circular for the regulation of access to shopping malls instead? And what about the communes about the late nature of the mail sent on Friday and the fact that many of them feel unable to get away with it with their means and will feel compelled to call on the Federal Reserve?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u18	Minister, I apologize for being a little late for the meeting, but I have two brief questions. A first question is about the soldiers on the street. In the past, I have asked you if the police will replace the soldiers on the street. With the corona crisis, the military automatically disappeared from the street, except in a number of places. The shops are now opening again and there are more people on the street. Shopkeepers, especially in large shopping streets in large cities, put security people at the entrance. Is there a plan to make the military more visible again? There was also a phasing-out plan. Is that still in progress or is it possible for the military to return to the streets? I would like to inform a number of colleagues that, as mayor of Hoeilaart, I also received a letter on Friday evening about the new ministerial decision. We have looked at how to apply this and worked throughout the weekend to give good instructions to the traders, which they received last night. This morning they started implementing it. It is indeed short notice, but be sure that a trader is very flexible and works day and night to reopen his or her business. So I don't think that's an obstacle. Emergency breaks the law, and I think everything is very feasible on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will give an overall answer to the various questions that have been raised. When it comes to specific numerical information, I would ask you to allow me to deliver it to you as soon as possible. Before I start the debate on the specific questions, I would like to say three things. Firstly, we are in the federal phase, which has been issued by the government. That federal phase is still in place and has already brought about a number of measures. Secondly, the maintenance, extension or relaxation of all the measures that are now being taken are changes that should be made through a ministerial decision. I will make a preliminary deduction: there has been no change in border matters by ministerial decision in any way. Thirdly, I am a mayor myself, since 1995, and I have had to adapt to changing circumstances at regular intervals, including for the administration in my municipality. I have never complained about this in any way, however short the deadlines may be. It is up to everyone, in cases of emergency, to say that over a period of 25 years, there has been a great deal of work to be done in such a way that whoever is the Minister of the Interior, whoever is the competent minister for internal affairs in the regions or whoever is the governor, is in a position to register in a certain logic. In general, I hear that there are questions or remarks about sending out to the organisation today regarding the new reality in which we live, in particular that we are in a b2c reality, the shop-to-client business. Those guidelines have been given. I would like to thank the mayors and the local authorities for being very flexible, inventive and cooperative during the course of this crisis. I do not have the impression that writing that is aimed at this is somehow compromising it. As regards the transmission and receipt of the document, and this is not a separate point, but in general, it is impossible to deliver a circular to the mayors until the ministerial decision is finished. The ministerial decision was ready, but still had to go through a very large administrative mill in computer time. Many parties, not the least of the regions, which in many ways represent different political movements in our country, also had many comments. So I will now answer a number of specific questions. Mr Thiébaut, with regard to your question on police duties in stations and trains from 4 May, I would like to stress that they are included in the laws and regulations defining the police function in the broad sense. With regard to the tasks assigned to the police in the context of the management of the VOCID-19 crisis, the aim is to ensure compliance with the provisions set out in the ministerial decree of 23 March. The planned strength since phase 1A of the deconfination is more than 160 police officers throughout the country. This device is constantly monitored and evaluated with our privileged partners. For the time being, there are no planned changes to Phase 1B. In particular, Securail agents monitor the mask port and respect safety distances in railway infrastructure. In addition, they inform travellers of the measures taken by the National Security Council. For further information, I refer you to the relevant ministers and, in particular, to my colleague on Mobility in the federal government. Railway police officers (CPS) also monitor and, where appropriate, report offenders. If necessary, they reinforce their local police colleagues present on the priority areas of action as well, of course, as the agents of Securail or STIB. The sanctions applied were reflected in Circular 06/2020 of 25 March 2020 of the College of Prosecutors General, revised on 6 May of the same year. I don't know if Mr. Thiébaut was with us, but that concludes my answer to his question. I'm coming to Mrs. De Wit's. Mrs De Wit's question was about selling drugs on the dark web in corona times. We are, of course, aware of the importance of the dark web and its role in various criminal phenomena, including the sale of drugs. The operational approach to the darkweb and the sale of drugs on it consists mainly of support from the Federal Computer Crime Unit and the i2-IRU cell of the central departments of the Central Executive Board. An assessment of the impact of the corona crisis on drug sales on the dark web is currently impossible, although it is very likely that the use of these modes of operation will increase during this particular period. In any case, the Belgian security services remain alert to all signals of possible trends in this area. They are in contact with Europol and with the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction. That centre has just published a first study on the subject. The study seems to confirm that cannabis users build up a stock of cannabis via the darkweb in order to anticipate restrictive measures under the COVID-19 approach. An increase in purchases of small quantities, as well as a decrease in purchases for resale, are also noted. This can be interpreted as a result of the restrictive measures currently in force in Europe. Belgium will also contribute to analyses in this area in the future and has been able to collect particularly valuable information for this purpose. The use of the Internet as a crime facilitator is a transversal phenomenon and thus an objective in the context of the different drug priorities in the National Security Plan 2016-2019, which was extended until 2020. Due to the increased popularity of the use of the darkweb and the virtual currency by criminals there is certainly a need for formation in relation to investigations in that matter. In recent years several researchers from the specialised services have been trained to do so. Europol's impact analysis projects on drugs, such as the cocaine, heroin, cannabis and Synergy projects, each contain a specific action point related to joint patrol on the darkweb. Belgium also supports these action points. That is the answer to Mr De Wit's question. I come back to Mr Cogolati's questions about nuclear emergency planning in the face of VOCID-19. With regard to your questions on international issues – and I refer to the presentation of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency as a parliamentary sub-committee – it is important to stress that the AFCN is in regular contact with and actively participates at international and bilateral levels in the exchange of good practices regarding the management of VOCID-19. I also stress that international organizations such as the International Atomic Energy Agency, the HERCA (the Heads of the European Radiological Protection Competent Authorities) and the WENRA (Western European Nuclear Regulator Association) do not have a mandate to impose specific nuclear safety measures on Member States. Nuclear safety measures can only be imposed by national safety authorities. As a result, AFCN is actively involved in the various webinars and virtual meetings, as well as in the exchange of work and actions related to the management of VOCID-19. At European level, an online platform has also been set up by the European Nuclear Safety Regulators Group, so that Member States can share information about their different approaches. Each safety authority was also required to provide an account of the measures taken in the context of the continuity of the maintenance of nuclear safety and security, the activities related to the radiological surveillance of the territory and the measures taken to protect the personnel of each safety authority. In particular, with regard to participation in the last ConvEx-2B exercise, these exercises are aimed at testing the ability of International Atomic Energy Agency member States to exchange information and test mechanisms for the application or dispatch of aid between States through the AIAE platform, the United System for Information Exchange in Incidents and Emergencies (USIE), and Belgium on its behalf, AFCN and NCCN regularly participate in such exercises as they regularly participate in other types of exercises organized by the International Agency. However, in view of the fact that this exercise, which took place at the end of March, coincides with the entry into force of the measures related to the management of VOCID-19, the Belgian participants you know, i.e. AFCN and NCCN, decided not to participate this year, in order to redirect their attention to the management of the VOCID-19 crisis. I come to your questions about the nuclear risks in times of pandemic, the monitoring of nuclear safety and emergency plans, and I can inform you that during the last parliamentary subcommittee of AFCN, a detailed account was given of the various measures taken by Belgian operators in order to be able to continue to maintain the same level of safety as in the pre-COVID-19 period. The Agency has analysed the various measures put in place by the operators, so also by Electrabel, remains in regular contact with them and follows the development of the situation very closely. At present, for the Agency, therefore, nuclear safety remains well ensured. In particular with regard to ENGIE Electrabel, its continuity plan ensures that all critical functions are fulfilled, as well as the necessary steps are taken to maintain the necessary level of nuclear safety during this period of VOCID-19. The existing ENGIE Electrabel contingency plan had not to be adapted. At the level of the nuclear emergency plan, it is therefore important to know that from the beginning of the containment period in Belgium, contacts have been made at the initiative of the AFCN between the partners of the nuclear emergency plan, in order to quickly operationalize the arrangements for the organisation of the management of a radiological incident in our territory, in accordance with the Royal Decree of 1 March 2018, as well as the guidelines related to the management of the crisis of the VOCID-19. The technical radiological and meteorological analysis of an incident, as well as the consultation with experts, operators and all partners at the strategic and operational level, could be carried out effectively and with respect for the physical distances of use through the adaptations that have been made in the crisis rooms and the use of computer and communication tools, such as the video conference, Régitel and many others. All of these tools are tested on a regular basis or during exercises to ensure their functionality. Of course, all the feedback gained during this crisis, both at international and national level, whether for nuclear safety or for contingency plans, will enable us to continue to improve and adapt our procedures, in order to be as well prepared as possible for future unforeseen events such as pandemics. As you know, concern for continuous improvement remains a top priority for the Agency. Mr President, what should I do about Mrs Dierick's question? I'm still giving the answer. Mrs Dierick asked a question about the access of seasonal foreign workers to our country. I can tell her that there are no figures available on the number of seasonal workers returned to the border as a result of the corona crisis. Nor has there ever been a rule prohibiting foreign seasonal workers from coming to work in Belgium. The rules on border controls and the essential nature of a border crossing were and are applicable to all. Anyone who presents himself at the border must be able to demonstrate the essential nature of his or her movement in accordance with the determination of the Ministerial Decree and the clarifications in the FAQ. Everyone must respect the rules of social discrimination as they are described in the directives. If the limits on the interpretation of the rules in this respect were already unclear, this was resolved by the introduction of an additional instruction in the internal directives to the police forces. In addition, foreigners who offer themselves at the border must, of course, also meet the conditions in force for access to the territory. With regard to the question of testing foreign seasonal workers, I must refer Mrs Dierick to the Minister for Health, under whose jurisdiction that matter falls. I come back to the question from our colleague Matz. The task of the police is to monitor compliance with containment measures. Due to the reopening of the shops, which takes effect today, their main mission will be to concentrate on the management of the crowd in the public space, the control of the wearing of a means covering the nose and mouth in public transport and that of the prohibition of rallies. With regard to shops, the police will ensure that everything is done in an orderly manner and within the necessary distances. Of course, it can also intervene if the conditions and terms are not respected in the shops. To this end, the operational guidelines of the Integrated Police Task Force have been updated in the light of the new amendments to the Ministerial Order that have entered into force today. As already explained, these directives are updated due to the government's regulatory work and made available to all police officers. The Federal Police has not engaged any new logistical resources in the local police service. However, she has the opportunity to buy masks for her if she does not have enough. Mrs Matz, for your last question, an additional envelope to support the police areas is not foreseen under the current budgetary conditions. However, I wanted to point out to you that despite your reference to an increase in crime, it has fallen sharply – whether it's big or small crime and whether it's day or night crime – since the beginning of the epidemic period. This is all the more true since the number of staff has increased because many other tasks must not be fulfilled. I am speaking, for example, of the permanences during the organisation of cycling races, festivals and other major events. On these aspects, I did not receive any requests or suggestions. Mr Rigot, the question of lifting the restriction on internal and external borders is indeed the subject of a European consultation, both administratively and ministerially. The European Commission today announced that it has decided to recommend that Member States extend restrictive measures at external borders until 15 June. The majority of Member States have also taken measures to limit traffic between Member States. As far as our country is concerned, last week the National Security Council confirmed that non-essential travel to and from our country will be prohibited until at least 8 June. The transport of goods and journeys motivated by professional reasons or urgent family reasons are nevertheless permitted. Travel for tourist reasons is not permitted until further notice. The European Commission wishes to provide Member States with a framework in which they can decide in a coordinated manner to gradually lift travel restrictions in their countries. The basic principle is that the lifting of restrictions must be gradual both geographically and in terms of purpose and to the extent that the epidemiological situation permits. It must therefore be possible to lift restrictions between neighbouring countries when the situation in both countries is comparable and the measures put in place to limit the risk of contamination are of the same level. As regards the purpose of cross-border traffic, the Commission cites the same priorities as those set by our country, namely economic and family priorities. The revival of the tourism sector has already been discussed in the consultation between the Commission and the Member States. It is clear that not all Member States are on the same wavelength. The Commission has announced a communication by Thursday 14 May on the lifting of measures at internal borders, the revival of the transport sector and the tourism sector included. We will therefore consider this communication carefully. I would point out, however, that restrictions can only be lifted when the situation permits both in the country of departure and in the country of destination. Again this morning, the French Minister of the Interior, my colleague Mr Christophe Castaner, announced that France will continue its border controls until October this year. However, I would like to stress, and I would like to take this opportunity, that I am in constant contact with my counterparts in the field of foreign affairs. I am also in constant contact with my colleague Mr Castaner, with my British colleague Mrs Patel, with my Luxembourg colleague Mrs Bofferding, my German colleague Mr Seehofer, and my Dutch colleague Mr Grapperhaus. All my colleagues share the same concern. Agreements have been concluded between the Member States. For example, talks between our Prime Minister and the Dutch Minister-President have been sunk in a protocol. This protocol remains applicable. In addition, my Luxembourg colleague has always been informed of our views on this matter. I will also answer the questions of Mr Donné, Mr De Smet, Mr Verduyckt, Mr Colebunders and Mr Vandenput. Mr Donné, the GPI has adopted measures for the follow-up of Stage 1B, from 11 May, with regard to the evolution of the control of essential movements towards the control of the co-training ban. The measures that have been taken have led us to reorientation of police services. After all, people will now go together in a different way to certain places. That mandate has been given and we must also ensure that the crowd control can be carried out to a large extent by our police forces. Mr Vandenput, the deployment of soldiers in the street is being extended month after month. I also have no indication that this would not happen again. This also happened in May, on the proposal of Secretary of Defense Goffin and myself. Only if there is a fundamentally different evolution followed by OCAD, if the threat analysis were to be reviewed, I say it would be revised, and we have no indication that this would happen at the moment.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr Verduyckt, you live in a border region, as do some of your colleagues. For the record, the ministerial decision had not been changed. The agreements with neighbouring countries and the instructions for the interior remained unchanged, whatever they may be. The government measures relating to the admission of up to four persons and the accompanying co-cooning had no impact on the application of the government's decisions in this regard. However, I must say that the fact that at least some changes were made operationally and intensively, albeit temporarily, I suppose, has triggered very intensive telephone traffic between The Hague and Brussels, all the more so because this went against the agreements made. I think I have said enough about this matter. There was also a question from Mr De Smet about the circular that would have arrived late. Mr De Smet, the circular went hand in hand with the ministerial decree. Imagine the reactions we would have had if we had had the circular without a ministerial order. The ministerial circular is first of all a praise for the mayors who have played a very important role and also a series of suggestions taking into account the difference in the commercial fabric of the different cities of our country. The commercial fabric of Brussels is very different from that of other cities and villages. That is why the circular arrived late. As a mayor, I think she arrived just in time, but knowing the good intentions, zeal and perseverance of the mayors, I think we have a tool that will bear fruit. Having said that, there is no need to hope for or succeed in persevering, I will try, as announced in the Kern, the enlarged Kern and the Concertation Committee, if changes are made in the Ministerial Order, to have a final version promulgated as soon as possible. I think it'll be this week. Mr Colebunders, I think I have given you an answer to the question concerning the circular that was sent to the mayors. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions that have been put to me in this topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u20	Minister, thank you for your detailed answers. To date, the nuclear emergency plan as it came into effect in 2018 does not contain any reference to the possibility of a pandemic. I believe it is vital to update this federal contingency plan to take into account the simultaneousity of a nuclear incident or accident and a pandemic. I am thinking of concrete examples. Evacuation from a hospital or nursing home is not easy in these pandemic times. The reception capacity in the event of evacuation is necessarily reduced if social distancing is taken into account. Finally, we saw the mask fiasco and realized that decontamination equipment is needed in the event of a nuclear incident. Minister, I therefore call for this federal contingency plan to be adapted and to take into account the data inherent in the crisis we are experiencing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u21	Mr Minister, I will not surprise you in saying that it is quite special to hear that the mayors' zeal and perseverance are relied upon to deal with an extremely complicated situation, with inapplicable measures on the ground. You have been asked to do so by mayors of large cities, and others. It is known that the mayors are working to enforce the rules that have been established for containment and deconfination. I find it mild to rely on their goodwill, without providing logistical assistance, through the federal police, or financial assistance. If crime has actually decreased during a period of confinement, this reopening of businesses and this definity will likely lead to other crime problems. I suppose you're aware of that. We cannot block a number of missions that remain essential and urgent for our citizens, including the fight against violence against women. I'm really disappointed with your answer. I also believe in the adaptability of the mayors, who work tirelessly on this subject. I think it would have taken a little sign of federal authority to help them in these extremely complicated missions. After that, it will certainly be said that the police areas had to take care of it. I think it's kind of getting rid of an essential problem on the backs of the communes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u22	Mr Minister, I thank you for the clarity of your answer, which is reassuring on one point: there will be a communication from Europe on Thursday. It is reassuring on a second point, because you put the emphasis on health and the need to revive the economy in Belgium, but first on health. It's essential. The questions that will arise in the future will include never losing sight of the fact that public health must be taken into account. (...) which will not be simple, since reactions (...) and there you become our spokesman, Minister. (...) coherence, a common way of understanding things so that, tomorrow, we do not have a new wave that endangers all citizens and brings everything to zero. Of course we're counting on you. Yes, we need a revival. Yes, we will also have to save our tourism and our economy, but we must first stay on course. One or two reflections on the whole debate to follow. I agree with Mrs Matz, who is a municipalist. I have no doubt, minister, that you have done the best you can for ministerial circulars. On the other hand, I can tell you that, in the field, it was not possible, on a Friday at 5 p.m., to activate them in good conditions. Regardless of the size of a municipality, account must be taken of the means available. It must be borne in mind that the communes do not stop doing everything they can to meet the expectations of the field and sometimes to replace the shortcomings of the higher authorities. It is also necessary to take into account the local police that always have to take on more tasks, including the control of access to shops on public roads etc. These frontline and local police officers are also heroes who do a terribly ungrateful job. We must not lose sight of him. The same applies to the work that is being done by the municipal authorities at present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u23	Minister, I have two brief points of reply. Firstly, we continue to insist that, when opened up, the coast must be accessible to everyone, including the ordinary citizen, for the day-to-day tourist. Of course, that must be done in a very safe way. That is why I ask you once again to accept your responsibility. Secondly, I have noted your answer in relation to travelling abroad. However, let us not forget that in our border regions an inaccessible street can mean a world of difference. In normal circumstances people can cross the street to see their daddy or mommy, but in the border areas this is not possible because of the closed border. In families with only one car and with a family member working just across the border, partners cannot always drive their own car to work. The family members must therefore choose which partner goes to work by car, while in normal circumstances one partner simply sells the other at work after a short drive and then goes on to work himself. I realize that it will be very difficult, but I think that needs to be clarified. Your colleague in France has the idea of keeping the borders closed until October. You cannot expect children in the border area not to meet their parents for more than six months. I call for apples to be compared to apples.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In itself, the rules are indeed clear. I was therefore shocked when I read in the newspaper that there are apparently different rules in my province. In particular, ambiguity gives rise to questions and makes rules applicable in different ways, which is not good. This caused a lot of frustration among the population, who received a double message. By the way, I would like to make it clear that you have not mentioned this element, Mr President, that our mayors, like me, are not medical experts. I understand that changing reports are very difficult, but a mayor who does not agree with the rules. We live in a free country. It might make him popular on Mother's Day, but it can't be. In a health crisis, I think we should all bear in mind the ultimate goal, namely exit. If everyone does their own thing, it will not work, and I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u25	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your comprehensive and detailed answers. I am not sure that they will necessarily please all the mayors who received the documents on Friday night, but we will see. I just regret that I did not have an answer on the first part of my speech concerning the lack of a comprehensive decree on regulation, on masks in shops. I think that will eventually cause more problems than anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u26	I think we can conclude the topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u27	Normally, questions from Members who are not present will automatically lapse, but given the special circumstances, I would suggest that we turn those questions into written questions. Then the work the Minister has done to formulate an answer has not been for nothing either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u28	Mr President, I would like to repeat Mrs Kitir's suggestion a few weeks ago, when there were many questions, namely not to read the questions themselves. Then we can go straight to the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u29	I think that is a good suggestion, but I must, of course, ask every questioner. I cannot expect that from all the questioners right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u30	Unless everyone agreed now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u31	Yes, but not everyone is present at the moment. Merged Questions 55002798C and 55002799C 55002808C, 55002953C and 55002954C by Mrs Chanson are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u32	You asked me whether I could formally rule out the use of facial recognition software by the Belgian police forces, whether from Clearview or not. Based on the information currently available, there is no knowledge within the federal police at organisational level of the use of facial recognition software within the services. By the way, there was no federal police report of any use of facial recognition software by local police. The directive states that when a service or police zone wishes to use new software, it is necessary to inform the central level, in particular the management of police information and ICT resources. Each initiative must be subject to a legal and opportunity analysis in advance. The facial recognition project that was in progress at Zaventem airport last year was discontinued on the basis of the advice issued by the Supervisory Body on Police Information (COC). Meanwhile, several federal police lawyers have started to make an additional legal analysis. In the meantime, I was concerned and contacts with the COC are ongoing. In addition, a working group was set up within the integrated police with both lawyers and field experts from the various fields of the local and federal police. The aim is not only to limit the legal analysis to facial recognition but also to look at the processing of biometric data in general. Firstly, it was examined what future processing of biometric data would be desirable for the police. In the meantime, needs have been identified and lawyers are currently looking at what texts need to be adapted in order to become more future-proof in order to allow certain processing of biometric data for the police services in the future. In this type of processing, efficiency gains can be achieved by the security services, specifically through facial recognition. That is actually an interesting tool for supporting their core business, namely finding a person. However, we must first establish a solid legal basis so that the information obtained by software can subsequently be used legally in criminal investigations. Mrs Kitir asked a quantitative question. At the moment there are 24 gates. These cost about 70,000 euros each. The maintenance contract costs 310,000 euros per year, plus 21 % VAT. Of this amount, 75% has been subsidised by Europe, half of the remaining 25% is paid by the airport operator and half by the federal police. My predecessor had two meetings with the company that delivered the gates. The federal police have stopped paying the maintenance contract to put pressure on the firm to solve the problems. There are regular meetings between the airport authorities and the federal police on the problems of identity card readers. The substitute operative works, but partly. The problems are mainly with the identity card readers. Block these when reading the presented ID cards. Reading the passports doesn't pose any problems. Finally, problems have also been identified at the gates themselves. These block sometimes. The maintenance contract is still up for three years. Following the previous administration, the contact with my predecessor and the termination of the payment by the federal police, the company concerned had initially carried out an upgrade of the software. In the meantime, this was reversed because there were problems with the ID reader. A procedure was also put in place to allow faster intervention, in cooperation with a private company operating at the airport. The company also replaced the smartphone with which the ports were controlled by a fixed PC with a screen, paid by BAC. The federal police and the operator have asked in consultation with the firm to replace a working system of identity card readers. That is why cooperation with the firm has always been continued so far. All this makes the system more stable at the moment, although still without a working identity reader. At the moment, the gates are still being used. In view of the COOVID-19 problem and the resulting reduction in passenger numbers, it was decided to temporarily suspend operation. The maintenance contract was also suspended. In the future, and taking into account the new developments at the border, new material will be chosen. This must be far more performative and capable of applying new technologies and their follow-up. Following the attacks of 22 March 2016, a security plan was replaced at the airport. This plan contains a number of actions aimed at minimising risks, knowing that the zero risk of course never exists. The plan was negotiated with the various partners at the airport, including the syndicated organisations. The follow-up is done by the aviation police and the Crisis Center. Meetings with the trade unions shall be held on a regular basis. A task force called Brunat was replaced by all the actors involved. Security issues are also discussed here. Mr Donné, the issue of the use of facial recognition is also being examined at European level. It is very important that we try not only to achieve the application of facial recognition in Belgium, but also that we work more together within Europe to provide for the appropriate legislation. The use of facial recognition will make it possible to achieve efficiency gains in the security services. More specifically, the police are interested in using facial recognition technology in the different police missions. The administrative police would use them to ensure the security of closed and public places by being able to intercept immediately a person known in the police databases and who poses a threat to public security. The judicial police would use this technology in the course of an investigation to check whether the suspect was at the scene of the crime at the time the offence was committed. This application can therefore only be of interest in various places where many people gather or in places where public order may be threatened, such as major events, critical infrastructure access points, football stages, airports, stations and the like. The system that Belgium wants to have should allow for a response to the new developments in border control, such as the EES, the Entry/Exit System. The system should be able to read both electronic identity cards and passports. Finally, it is more than desirable that all this should allow for an effective flow of passengers at border control, always taking into account the necessary security. At present, the procedure is at the stage where the technical specifications of the new border control material at the national airport are drawn up. I come back to Mr. Thiébaut's question. Mr Thiébaut, you asked me if I was informed of the use by the Belgian police of the services of Clearview All In. I can repeat that, on the basis of the information currently available within the Federal Police at the organizational level, there is no knowledge of the use of facial recognition software within its services. The federal police also did not receive a report of the use of facial recognition software by a local police service. The directive stipulates that, if a police department or area wishes to use a new software, it must inform the central level, i.e. the Directorate of Police Information and ICT means. Each initiative must also be the subject of prior legal analysis and expediency analysis. As no face recognition system is used live by the police, your other questions, therefore, are not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u33	Minister, thank you for your reply, although I regret to hear that a project that has cost more than EUR 2 million and has been dragging on since 2015 still has so many shortcomings. I am curious to see how that will be resolved and what consequences that will have. On the other hand, I am pleased to hear that the agreed plan at the airport has been discussed with all the partners, including the trade unions. After all, as you know, one of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry is that there should be more consultation, including with the workers' organizations. I do not, however, hear in your reply that the consultation is taking place in a structural manner. It is good that those involved have already sat around the table once. However, it is important that consultation is implemented in a structural manner in the way the airport operates. I'll keep following up the file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u34	Minister, I take note of your answer. The question was put a long time ago. In the meantime, I've read that the police have declared it wasn't her. BuzzFeedis a renowned research site. I'm guessing some of the cops used that online database after all. However, there is no structural problem in this area. I would just like to respond to what you have said, namely that you are examining how biometric data can be used in the future. That is not a small step in my view. There is therefore a need for a thorough debate on this issue. Clearviewin America today states that it has compiled that database, which it has illegally compiled, mainly because it wants to fight crime. That's always been the objective thing. However, in recent weeks she has contacted Mr Trump's administration in order to offer her help in the fight against corona. I would simply like to point out how quickly such matters begin to fade. No one's against us using that database to fight crime. But without us knowing it, we are also doing other things with it. That is why it is very important that, firstly, we hold a thorough debate on the issue and, secondly, we work within a European framework. After all, Europe is an example in the world of privacy legislation and that is more so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u35	Mr Van Langenhove put his question No. 55003260C in a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55003435C and 55003436C by Mrs Taquin are also converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u36	Dear colleague, thank you. Your question once again gives me the opportunity to clearly denounce attacks on the police and rescue services, which I consider absolutely unacceptable. Police services must be able to work in a secure infrastructure and the means at their disposal must meet the highest standards. The purpose of Circular GPI 91 is to ensure that reception spaces comply with minimum organizational, physical and electronic standards as well as access control requirements in the context of the circular's security concept. The ballistic standard for bulletproof vests has been re-evaluated. The dossier was approved by the Senior Negotiating Committee on March 4 and a GPI circular concerning the wearing of the bulletproof vest is now to be negotiated. However, the state of maximum national alert triggered by the VOCID-19 crisis focuses our efforts on the many priority health and safety tasks you know. This explains the delay in certain procedures. The Standing Commission of the Local Police has communicated the new standard to all police areas. There are currently three accredited testing laboratories for the selected standard. Their number is expected to increase over time. The group of experts, which met on several occasions, proposed a new standard combining ergonomics and safety. There is therefore a priori no reason to depart from the new standard. The standard is binding and the issue of the transitional phase has yet to be addressed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u37	Minister, I am pleased to see that you will consider a transitional measure to be considered at a later stage. Of course, today's urgency is the problem of VOCID-19. I don't doubt it. I simply raise a point of attention, which I will come back to later. It is obviously the physical load that this bulletproof vest represents, like many equipment for our police officers, with the risk of back and back damage to which you will really have to pay attention. I hope that these standards will not create too much burden for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u38	Mr President, this is a question with figures. Colleagues, 740 police candidates are currently being selected, including 104 Dutch-speaking and 636 French-speaking. We have 2,465 security officer candidates currently being selected, including 1,109 Dutch-speaking and 1,354 French-speaking candidates. There are 6,521 candidate inspectors currently being selected, of whom 3,022 are Dutch-speaking and 3,499 are French-speaking. There is currently no current recruitment for the rank of Commissioner of Police. There are 2,132 aspiring police officers in training, including 23 aspiring police officers, 198 aspiring security officers and 1,516 aspiring police inspectors, 248 aspiring chief police inspectors, 25 aspiring chief specialized inspectors and 122 aspiring police commissioners. The training courses are each given according to their own schedule. There is no uniform end date. Promotions in the various police schools have an expected completion date between April 30, 2020 and March 31, 2021. Given the situation of the VOCID-19, these theoretical dates of completion of training could be postponed. There is no priority service for the assignment of these new police officers. Aspirants leaving schools are assigned to local police forces and federal police entities after having obtained their mobility. Aspirants can participate in mobility several months before the end of their training. In addition to this general principle of assignment, the inspectors first participate, during their training, in a "aspirant" mobility cycle specifically reserved for them. In addition, a limited number of areas carry out additional recruitment that already binds a number of aspiring candidates to their area before the start of the training. Finally, specialized senior officers and inspectors are also recruited for a specific job prior to the start of the training. The current crisis does not affect assignments as such. Recruitment is an ongoing process. It is clear that, during regular incorporations of new police officers, the chiefs of corps and the federal authorities will direct a number of these officers to missions related to the VOCID-19 crisis. In conclusion, recruitment has been in order for a few years and, in fact, the capacities of police schools are being used to their fullest. The academies are making the necessary efforts to train all candidates.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u39	Minister, thank you very much for the answers you have provided. This question also deserved to be written in view of the statistical data requested from you. I will not fail to read these in detail with the transcript of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u40	Question No. 55003505C by Ms. Song is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the application for authorisation it is clearly stated that the SF2 (spent fuel storage facility) was designed for a life of at least 80 years. In order to address some future uncertainties and developments in the long-term management of spent fuels and their impact on the SF2 facility and its components, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency is of the opinion that these developments should be identified and reassessed during each periodic safety review. For AFCN, it is essential to maintain the safety and security of this spent fuel not only in the short term but also in the long term. This requirement has been repeated in Article 1, 11(c), to which you referred in your question and thus ensures that there will be sufficient time to anticipate these latest developments. The Royal Decree of 30 November 2011 laying down safety requirements for nuclear installations provides that qualified and sufficient personnel must be available in order to guarantee the safety of the installations. On the other hand, it is for this reason that an exact number is not explicitly required in the authorisation for the establishment and operation of the establishment. However, you will find in the application for authorization an estimate of the number of persons required and the qualifications required. It's about 40 people. For storage containers, all nuclear safety requirements to be met by these containers are listed in the safety report in advance of the SF2 application for establishment authorization. This report is available online on the AFCN website. It is important to clarify that all containers must meet the same security requirements. The operator must demonstrate through detailed studies that these containers meet the requirements. Bel V, AFCN's technical line, also independently verifies that these containers meet the requirements of the application for authorisation, creation and operation. Following the public inquiry in the municipalities interviewed, more than 250 objections were received. The AFCN has analysed them in depth. All these analyses are also available online on the AFCN website and its experts have responded to each objection in the most objective way possible, checking, although the future installation is subject to the strictest safety and security rules as imposed in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answer. If I understand correctly, the storage time in this warehouse in Tihange could therefore exceed eighty years, if the AFCN considers it necessary. Today, ONDRAF does not yet have a long-term management project. This means that waste, in any case spent fuel, will have to remain in place for more than eighty years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u43	Yes, I'm referring to my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u44	Thank you for your confirmation, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u45	Mr President, Mr Colebunders, I myself took some initiatives on this matter and that strike did not take place. Commitments have been made and they will not come under pressure from the state in which we are currently working. I would like to thank all the partners who have contributed to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u46	Mr President, Minister, if I have understood you correctly, not much has happened there. Because of the corona crisis, that strike was averted and there was no further talk.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u47	The people have been to my cabinet. I have spoken with the representatives and agreements have been made on infrastructure and personnel issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u48	I still don't know what was discussed. I will then have to ask the people of the union if it is resolved or if it will continue after the coronaheisa.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u49	As I indicated to you in the previous question, the hard work of our police officers – you also mentioned in your intervention on the VOCID-19 – is important not only in terms of moral burden, but also at the physical level. Prodemos has pointed out that 67% of our police officers suffer from lumbar problems, particularly because of the weight of the bulletproof vest, which we were talking about, and the belt. The situation is deteriorating rapidly, as no less than 74 per cent of the police officers in office for more than 15 years are already victims. After 26 years of career, the evil is general since 85% of our agents suffer from this persistent lumbar pain. This study shows that the prevalence of back pain among police officers is higher than the rest of the population. This must legitimize the recognition of back pain as an occupational disease within the law enforcement agencies. Minister, have you read this study? Do you think that preventive measures should be taken to relieve our police officers and avoid such worrying statistics in the future? Are you considering a review of the future standard for bulletproof vests, which, in the state, only causes new ills? You've already answered me earlier, and it seems you're not. What about a quick reflection on the belt? Finally, since it is true that prevention is better than cure, when it is necessary to heal, it is important to do so properly. Are you considering supporting the recognition of back pain as an occupational disease in our agents?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u50	Mr Rigot, as far as the Prodemos study is concerned, the services have taken note of the results presented in this study, which I have also received. Preventive measures have been studied and several expert groups have met to assess the combination of the ball vest and the service belt. Various port tests were then carried out. Choices have been made to adapt materials and produce ergonomic belts, low hip sheaths and tactical covers for ball vests. These measures ensure the support and distribution of materials and weight in order to offer a better comfort to the user. An agreement on the standard for the new ball vest was concluded on 4 March 2020 with the union partners. This makes it possible to reconcile the level of protection and the ergonomics of the vest by-balls. The latter in response to the problem of dorsal tension. In addition, the recognition of a disease as being of a professional nature is based on the list of occupational diseases. This one doesn't take back back the back pains. However, a derogation from wearing a vest by bullets that generates complaints at the level of back tension may be drafted by the occupational physician. The hierarchy subsequently determines the working environment of the staff member concerned so that he or she can perform his or her duties as best he or she can. In addition, an integrated GPI-police circular is also under discussion with the unions regarding the actual wearing of bulletproof vests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u51	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I am pleased to hear that the unions have been involved in the reflection on this new standard. These same union representatives will certainly be asking for the recognition of back pain as an occupational disease. We must move forward in this reflection. You say that this is not the case at the moment – I hear it well. That's why I was asking you if you could consider it tomorrow. We must therefore reconsider the matter. Today, more than ever before, it is important to protect our police officers from the disease and the difficulties associated with their duties, so that they are present on the street to carry out their necessary missions of proximity, surveillance and protection. If they are affected by diseases that prevent them, they will be forced to perform clerical work – of course, just as important (...) We are not going to increase the resources for police areas and recruitment tomorrow. It is therefore necessary to protect our police officers preventively, so that they are present on the ground. I'm counting on you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u52	Debates of the European Parliament 55003733C by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u53	Mr Metsu, in Belgium we have 268 local integrated security cells on radicalism, extremism and terrorism, the so-called LIVC-R, in 418 municipalities. Both the Brussels-Capital Region and the nine municipalities of the German-speaking Community were included in these figures. In Flanders, 168 of these safety cells are currently divided into 254 municipalities. In Wallonia, 84 are divided into 149 municipalities. In addition, there is a very small number of invisible local integrated security cells when the establishment of such a cell is not indicated on the website of the General Security and Prevention Service of the FPS Home Affairs. At present 167 Belgian municipalities have not indicated that they have set up a LIVC-R. The main reason given to us is the lack of radicalised entities on the territory concerned. As regards the establishment of a security cell in each Belgian municipality, I agree with the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016. As a reminder, the Committee of Inquiry insisted that "a LIVC was set up in all municipalities, even though this would for the time being be a so-called dormant concept in the absence of elements related to imminent radicalisation or terrorist threat. Given the current threat and the expected return of foreign fighters, it is crucial that each municipality is at least prepared for any problems." The establishment of a local integrated security cell is part of the prevention of the local integrated security policy for which each mayor is responsible. Security cells shall facilitate the exchange of information and cooperation between all local actors involved in the problem, in the context of the early detection of the phenomenon or the follow-up of the person. For me, it is not a question of obliging municipalities, but of convincing them of the need to create such a structure, with each level of government having its share of responsibility. Since the law of 30 June 2018 establishing local integrated security cells on radicalism, extremism and terrorism, the number of LIVC-Rs has evolved positively. After all, we went from 339 municipalities with a LIVC-R in October 2018 to 418 municipalities in 2020. In order to facilitate the establishment of such structures, the OCAD sent an explanatory note on the LIVC-R to local authorities at the end of 2019 to improve their functioning and role, in particular of the prevention cells. My administration has a team of consultants who, at the request of the municipalities, help establish these security cells. Finally, I can tell you that there are no figures available on the number of cases already dealt with within these local integrated safety cells.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I also speak as mayor when I say that a LIVC-R is useful. What concerns me in your reply is that 167 municipalities do not want to set up a local integrated security cell because they are not yet faced with radicalised people on their territory. That's just the principle of a LIVC. That's to prevent people from radicalizing. I hope from these 167 municipalities that time doesn't catch up with them and that they have to set up a LIVC when it's too late. The best practices of a LIVC are there. I hear you saying that you will not impose this obligation. I'd like to make a call to my fellow mayors. You're doing absolutely nothing wrong with setting it up. On the contrary, with this shared professional secrecy, different stakeholders can talk to each other in confidence and share news about certain individuals in order to avoid radicalising individuals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u55	Mr President, I would like to add a few words. There is the figure of 418 municipalities, but I have already discovered twice a discrepancy in the document, in particular the discrepancy between the number of municipalities and the number of police zones. I'm gonna try to filter that out again, because they'll get a different picture.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u56	Questions Nos 55003772C and 55003776C by Mrs Schiltz, question No 55003805C by Mrs Rohonyi and question No 55003809C by Mr Kir are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u57	Mr Cogolati, with regard to the Eckert & Ziegler AG site, it is important to clarify that the role of the Federal Nuclear Control Agency is to ensure that the operator of this site, despite the fact that it is no longer operating, is always in accordance with his plan to maintain the safety of his installations. As a result, AFCN is continuing its field inspections to ensure that the nuclear safety and security of the site continues to be provided by the operator. With respect to dismantling, the AFCN also wishes to point out that the current operator has never committed to dismantling its cyclotrons. As a result, no final decommissioning plan was submitted to AFCN, and the same applies to the request for the resumption of operations, i.e. no request for the resumption of operations was submitted to AFCN. To answer your question about the costs and provisions related to dismantling, as well as about waste management, I will tell you that this matter is the responsibility of the National Radioactive Waste and Enriched Fissile Material Organization, ONDRAF, and not AFCN. However, it is important to note that no radioactive waste from past productions of the undertaking concerned is yet present on the site. The waste can only be found on the site of the Catholic University of Leuven. On the other hand, it is not within the competencies and responsibilities of the PSAN to speak instead of an operator about its site strategy. The only thing that matters to the PSAN is that the nuclear safety and security of the facilities is ensured, regardless of the operator's strategy. With regard to the disappearance of the provisions, the AFCN has indeed already drawn the attention of ONDRAF to this risk, as it is the authority responsible in this regard. Finally, a legal constraint forcing an operator to dismantle is not included in the AFCN regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u58	Minister, thank you. So let me be astonished. Indeed, the AFCN authorises the transfer of the EZB nuclear facility – I would remind you that it represents a nuclear liability of 10 million euros according to ONDRAF. And so far, we have no guarantee on the table that the casemates and the two cyclotrons are indeed dismantled. But for me, it is obviously a question of nuclear safety, but also a guarantee of the remediation of the site. We wouldn't want to stay with a radioactive cemetery on our shoulders for years to come. I still wonder about the transfer of an EZAG company which was indeed identified, to Telix, an Australian company which, apparently, has not yet guaranteed the actual dismantling of these facilities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u59	Mr President, the first question concerns the virtual police counters. Procedures are provided for dealing with particularly serious crimes such as rape or armed robbery outside the virtual window. In order to assess the functioning of the system optimally, the police zone organized a test phase. The project was continuously evaluated and updated where necessary. The evaluation did not create any insurmountable obstacles to the roll-out of the project. A number of issues and related recommendations were further analysed in order to achieve an efficient and customer-friendly system. User satisfaction could also be identified by means of a survey at the end of the conversation. As well as all the customers at the window were satisfied with the virtual communication and handling of the file. The system offers the following advantages: there are wider opening hours, the quality and uniformity of the handling of declarations by a fixed group of virtual inspectors is guaranteed, the technology ensures a natural and personal interaction, there is a high user-friendliness, there is a more efficient staff deployment, the location independence of the window is paramount, and the documents user-friendly scanning, printing and hand drawing in the front and back office is fluent. Finally, the physical integrity of the employees is not compromised either. The technology used creates a very strong sense of presence and authenticity. In addition, aluminized symmetrical eye contact ensures that one looks one another straight in the eye. The inspector concerned is connected live with the citizen and can therefore always be tailored to the person or case that is offered. Moreover, technology has been built up in such a way that the people who want to make a declaration should not have any knowledge of any computer system. Moreover, the implementation of this technology is completely independent of structural staff shortages, as you suggest. It is clear that district agents will still be accessible and accessible to citizens. The district offices will still serve as a home base for the district inspectors and as a meeting point for the citizens. The great flexibility of the project and the location independence make it possible in the long term to reach a 24 out of 7 availability in each municipality. The police no longer depend on the opening hours of the district office. In this sense, the network is an extension of local services, which I only want and will continue to encourage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u60	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am still hungry because I have the impression that this will be one of the rules to deal with the shortage in the police. You know that we have a weakness for 'the police, your friend' and we are afraid that the virtual part will affect the contacts with the citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u61	Mr President, Mr Colebunders, 800 recruits are recruited every year by the aviation police. It was also decided before 2020 to recruit 600 additional recruits, of which 400 are specific to the federal police and 100 are for the aviation police at Zaventem National Airport. I would also refer you to an answer I gave you earlier this afternoon, which is the subject of a proposal I made to all the parties concerned on staff issues in Zaventem. The Federal Police Recruitment and Selection Service (DPRS) spends a large part of its time implementing actions to attract new candidates for the integrated police and makes every effort to meet recruitment quotas. Every year, job fairs, open-door days, preparatory sessions for recruitment tests and information sessions are organised and the DPRS has developed a network through contacts with pre-schools and through external contacts in the labour market, for example with the VDAB, Forem and Actiris. Finally, an open day was scheduled for the federal police on May 2. Here the various professions of the federal police, including the professions of the aviation police, would be proposed, but in view of the special period in which we live, that open-door day unfortunately did not go on. A communication campaign will be developed for the aviation police in Brussels-National, but in view of the COOVID-19 crisis, its development will also be temporarily postponed. In other words, they are additional staff who will be added to the current framework of the department concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u62	Of course, Minister, everyone is aware that we are now in an exceptional situation. We hope that there will be no delay, but I assume that this will not be the case when I hear your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u63	Mr President, I will bring together the questions put by Mr Verduyckt and Mr Colebunders. Mr Colebunders, as a result of the respecialisation of the railway police, the basic police care of the railway police (SPC) is ensured. The aim is certainly not to abolish the permanent presence of the railway police, but to be able to operate even more efficiently in its priority areas of action consisting of trains, train tracks and platforms for the upper-local phenomena. The urgent emergency calls, the patrols aimed at nuisance, the operations and actions at national and international level continue. The direction of the patrols of the railway police in the North Region consisting of the judicial arrondissement of Leuven and the provinces of Antwerp and Limburg takes place from Antwerp. Despite the staff shortage, the aim is to provide an intervention patrol for the provinces of Antwerp and Limburg and the judicial district of Leuven between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. As far as possible, additional patrols are also organised in the priority area of action of the railway police. In view of the identified staff shortage, the Northern Region SPC is a priority when recruiting staff. The response time is no longer being investigated within the railway police. The management wishes to adapt this situation in the future. Mr Verduyckt, the crisis we are now experiencing has generally had an impact on all police forces in order to enforce the ministerial decision of 23 April, particularly for the railway police. This is translated by wearing a mask or other nose and mouth protection mechanism or system in public transport and by organising police interventions on rail and subway and pre-metro networks in Brussels. The task of the railway police is to ensure safety on the trains and on the tracks, as well as on the platforms for the upper local phenomena. As you know, when I arrived at Home Affairs, the railway police indeed proposed a new vision with a view to a more thorough specialisation. The aim was not to cut down the specialised capacity of the railway police but to use it better and to shorten the intervention periods on the rail network itself. With regard to your questions, I would like to inform you that the discussions with the Local Police Permanent Commission (VCLP) are currently under way. The outcome of these talks will lead to a new circular. There is therefore no structural closure of posts. At operational level, there is already daily cooperation with the police area to ensure that there are sufficient police personnel on the ground. In concrete terms, the tasks of the railway police are better defined in their priority areas of action, namely ensuring basic police care on trains, tracks and platforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I will look again at what you have said and then we will see how we can proceed with this in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, although it is not yet a definitive one. The conversations are still ongoing. The sp.a group will therefore continue to follow up on this. There is some unrest about the fact that things are changing and that we are still a little further away from that post which guarantees our security, even if you say that this is not the intention and that the intervention times remain low. I will continue to follow the issue with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u66	Mr President, Mr Cogolati, as you know, cybersecurity is an ongoing process and continuous monitoring is needed, given the rapid and ongoing developments in this area. As a result, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency and Bel V specifically monitor the protection of information within each Belgian nuclear facility, by conducting regular verifications. It should be noted that any information relating to the security of a nuclear facility is categorised, which already severely limits the possibility of disseminating information through digital devices. Many preventive measures, both technical and organizational, are taken to prevent sensitive data from being exfiled from the site by usb keys or other means. On the other hand, only devices approved by operators are allowed at the sites. This measure applies to any person present on a site. Several types of devices such as employees' mobile phones are not permitted, for example, in certain parts of the facilities. The human factor is also very important. To this end, awareness-raising campaigns are organized internally to raise awareness among employees of the risk of phishing, as well as false email invitations or unknown text messages. In addition, corrective measures are also implemented by operators. These are intended to intercept attempts at outside intrusion. In the interests of continuous development, the measures must be regularly updated by the operators.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u68	Question No 55004031C by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u69	Mr President, Mr Cogolati, with regard to aircraft falls, the regulations have evolved as follows. Previously, the operator had to consider aircraft falls. Today, it is explicitly requested to take as an initiator the fall of representative military and commercial aircraft. This implies that the operator will have to define the representative aeroplanes, i.e. the aeroplanes that fly over or around the sites most frequently. On this basis, it will have to demonstrate that the emergency protections and systems effectively ensure the reactor's safety functions, thus avoiding the release of radioactive products from the reactor core. Cargo aircraft, departing or arriving at the Bierset airport and flying over the vicinity of the Tihange site, will therefore also be counted and included in the calculations for defining "representative aircraft". In general, the new requirements involve, above all, a systematic approach in the demonstration of safety, particularly in the determination of initiatory events. Studies are to be carried out, such as probabilistic studies and/or the holding of earthquake facilities. There is no doubt that improvements in stress testing will largely meet the new requirements. Complementary improvements of varying degrees may still be identified as being needed. As for the deadlines for implementation of the deadlines, they are fixed for certain elements, as well as for the carrying out of probabilistic studies. On the other hand, for improvements in the design and implementation schedule, all this will have to be determined by the operator according to the importance of the improvements identified. On the other hand, it is out of the question for the Authority that a new operating period, which is otherwise not provided for under the law on the exit of nuclear power, may be carried out without meeting these requirements. If explicit deadlines are not met, infringements will be identified and normal procedures followed. "Practical" or "real" resistance tests are not always possible. It is impossible to actually test a plane fall or a heart fusion in an installation. Of course, a number of emergency planning exercises were carried out by the operator as part of the stress tests, for example to test the organisation of the contingency plan and the implementation of the ultimate means on the ground, including in Tihange. I refer you to the answer to your oral question No. 55001734C of 4 December 2019 in which I have already referred to certain parts of your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u70	Minister, thank you very much for your detailed answer. I can tell you that I am delighted with this development. The cargo planes that land in Bierset, not very far from the Tihange nuclear power plant, will finally be able to be taken into account in the stress tests. It also means that, in my view, two reactors do not respond to the new nuclear safety measures and that even the storage centre, which we have also mentioned this afternoon and which has just received the green light from AFCN, does not respond to the strictest security measures concerning the potential falls of cargo aircraft as it lands at the Bierset airport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u71	Question No 55004067C by Mrs Rohonyi is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u72	Mr President, Mr Cogolati, the reactor tanks must indeed be inspected at least every three years. Since the Tihange 2 reactor was shut down for a long period of time, from July 2018 to June 2019, for a concrete problem, the said period is not counted in the three years mentioned above. Indeed, in order to be able to properly assess whether the situation has changed, it is important that the reactors have operated for a sufficiently long period of time. The next inspection of the Tihange 2 reactor tank will therefore be carried out at the next scheduled stop, in November-December 2020, according to the current schedule.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u73	Minister, let me be surprised that the deadline has not been met since the second check carried out after not even a year of operation already showed an evolution of the cracks, and hence famous shortcomings. It would have been desirable to comply with the deadline of at least every three years and to carry out, from now on, the control of the Tihange 2 tank since the last date was April 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u74	Mr President, Mr Cogolati, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency is indeed following the situation very closely. To date, no abnormal increase in the level of radioactivity has been measured in Belgium by the Telerad measuring stations. At present, there are therefore no risks to the population and the environment on Belgian territory and no specific measures should be taken. In the meantime, I would also like to inform you that AFCN is in close contact with the Centre d'étude de l'énergie nucléaire (SCK CEN), which, together with the Royal Meteorological Institute (MRI), carried out an analysis of the fires and their potential impact on Belgium, using meteorological data in combination with a good estimate of the quantity of the caesium-137 concerned and they were able to predict, in a fairly precise way, the trajectory that will follow the smoke plumes of the fires and therefore the atmospheric concentrations of the radioactive particles. According to the results of these analyses, it is unlikely that an increase in radioactivity will be observed by the Telerad network in Belgium. To answer your questions about radiological crisis management and the contacts and exchanges that AFCN has with international organisations, such as the International Agency or the European Union, I would like to point out that at present no nuclear or radiological emergencies have been declared at both national and international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u75	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u76	Question No 55005254C by Mrs Sophie Rohonyi is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u77	Mr President, the aspirants of the initial training security officer DAB are trained by the National Police College. They're scheduled for federal services, not local police zones. At no time were they assigned to a police zone and actively deployed. During their initial training, aspirants of the DAB training course, which has continued to run and which has not been suspended as a result of the measures concerning COVID-19, switched to distance learning in the field of theoretical subjects. For the ongoing training security agent, all theoretical lessons at a distance and the theoretical examinations as provided for will simply take place, provided that the necessary preventive measures are taken. The only problem currently facing us is the lessons of shooting instruction and self-defense, as they cannot take place without physical contact between aspirants, on the one hand, or the shooting or sports monitor and the aspirants, on the other. Depending on the exit strategy and the time at which these lessons will be given with physical contact, these lessons and exams will also be organised. Depending on when these lessons can be resumed, this may cause some delay before these aspirants can be made available to the SAB after the completion of their training. In the meantime, repeat lessons are provided for the subjects to be covered and the aspirants are given the opportunity to prepare for the upcoming exams. No aspirants DAB are actively placed on the ground before completing their training, so that there can be no legal implications either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u79	Mr President, Mr Cogolati, the disposal of some of Belgium's radioactive waste at sea lasted from 1960 until 1982. Fifteen disposal operations took place. During these 15 disposal operations (under the direction of the SCK-CEN and from 1967 under the aegis of the OECD Nuclear Energy Agency), Belgium immersed 55,324 containers of radioactive waste at seven different sites, or 29,731 tonnes of drums. For more information on the history of disposal of nuclear waste at sea, please consult the Federal Nuclear Control Agency's website. In accordance with the Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the North-East Atlantic, OSPAR, most North Atlantic countries continuously monitor the quality of their territorial waters. For example, Belgium provides continuous radiological monitoring of its territory and territorial waters. Each year, the AFCN carries out, in cooperation with the Belgian oceanographic research vessel, the Belgica, inspections throughout the maritime area and carries out a number of radioactivity measurements on samples taken at sea. The results confirm that there are no problems with the radiological status of the marine environment. Repatriation of waste is currently not planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u80	Mr Minister, I shall confine myself to the fact that this highly radioactive waste is left at sea. I do not think that this attitude is very responsible and that we can one day repatriate them in safe and responsible conditions for the safety of all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u81	Mr. Cogolati, with regard to the legal framework, a new regulation for response to sites contaminated by radioactive substances as a result of historical activities is ready and has been dealt with by the new government. It follows the model of regional soil remediation decrees. This is a draft bill that sets out, among other things, responsibility for the remediation of sites contaminated with such substances. Depending on the risk associated with the contamination, the process leads, for each site, either to the development of a risk management plan or to remediation of the site. Radioactive substances resulting from remediation operations will need to be managed appropriately. To answer your question about radiological monitoring, radioactivity controls in underground areas around radium-contaminated equipment storage facilities at the Umicore site in Olen, and radon measurements are carried out twice a year. A summary of their results is reproduced annually in our country's radiological monitoring reports, which are published on the AFCN website. Contaminations have been detected locally in the groundwater, but only within the perimeter of the Olen plant and therefore have no impact on the population. With regard to the remediation of Olen sites and the management of contaminated materials, AFCN and ONDRAF have recently prepared a joint vision note. In particular, it describes possible management options for contaminated materials based on their degree of contamination. The two organizations have planned to present this note to Umicore at a meeting scheduled for May. It will then be up to the company - in consultation with all stakeholders - to translate these management principles into a concrete remedial plan. With regard to your questions concerning the inventory of waste in the ONDRAF geological storage project, the financial capacity, the management of radioactive waste and the amount of provisions are the responsibility of this body.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u82	Minister, thank you. Before the presentation of the common vision, I still do not see any concrete progress in the remediation of the site. I hear we've even seen contamination in the water table in Olen. I am concerned, however, that more than 10,000 m3 of highly radioactive waste are currently not covered by the long-term management plans of ONDRAF. I wonder where this waste will land and how it will be managed for future generations. I note that there is no concrete progress at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u83	Question No 55005721C by Mr Thiébaut is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u84	Mr Mahdi, the Aviation Square falls under the Brussels-South police zone. As a result of the riots that took place in Anderlecht, I recently proposed a zero tolerance, which represents a particularly strong physical presence of the police on the ground. There may also be immediate arrests or arrests. The reserve of the federal police is also ready to be operational in case of request. This week, a meeting is planned with all the partners, the municipal board of Anderlecht in all its components, the police of the competent police area in all its components and the prevention services, in order to further evaluate the situation and, above all, to examine how to prevent the riots in the preventive area. In addition, it will also examine how to act, in an integrated way, when riots take place. This violence, of course, goes against a sense of justice among many citizens. The law enforcement services cannot in any way be the target or are the goal of conscious vandalism or physical aggression. I have said this several times in response to these riots, but also from previous riots. This problem is also a priority in the COOVID-19 period. It is not because there are now measures to be enforced by our police forces if they are not complied with during this COVID period that this problem would not remain a priority. The necessary instructions have been given for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u85	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is nice to note that we are now in the majority in this committee room, because that has been a while, a few decades ago. We'll be back!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u86	Do you also include the committee chairman in the majority?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u87	There's two of us, right? Minister, I am pleased with your answer, because of two aspects which I think are important. First of all, we are talking about the preventive hatch, for which attention must be paid. There are often problems in some neighbourhoods in different cities. In the long term, these problems can only be solved through street corner workers, through preventive policies. In addition, especially in these times, but in general, we must ensure that no one feels unsafe and that no one can commit criminal offences. In this case, on the basis of the letter that some neighborhood residents have written, people are being hailed, robbed and women harassed on the street. It is therefore a good thing that there should be consultation between the various actors to act. After all, youth gangs on the streets should not determine how people should feel when they are there. I am therefore pleased with your answer. I look forward to the sequel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u88	Mr President, Mr Cogolati, as regards evacuation, the nuclear and radiological emergency plan for Belgian territory is drawn up by Royal Decree of 1 March 2018. 6.3.3.3. the guidelines to be followed in case of possible evacuation of the population concerned. These guidelines are currently being translated into operational procedures and plans by the working groups involved in the operationalisation of the emergency plan for nuclear sites on Belgian territory. These groups bring together representatives of the National Crisis Centre, federal departments, governors and disciplines. In addition, the nuclear emergency plan pays particular attention to specific vulnerable groups such as crèches, schools, the elderly, the mentally and physically disabled, the sick living in hospitals, in health centres or in detention centres. In accordance with the nuclear emergency plan and pursuant to Article 11.15 of the Royal Decree of 28 March 2014 on the prevention of fire at the workplace, managers of all institutions must have an internal emergency plan including the organisation of an evacuation from the institution. Please also be aware that the NCCN is preparing a national framework for mass evacuations as part of NATO's baseline requirements. Particular attention is paid to vulnerable persons. This framework was developed in collaboration with Regions, federal departments, governors and disciplines. Iodine tablets are the subject of a recurrent national information campaign. The previous date is 2018. Residents of an area of 20 km around nuclear facilities may go to pharmacy to obtain iodine tablets for consumption on a recommendation from the competent authorities. This is also the case for the population living within a 100 km radius of a nuclear power plant. Priority is given to families with children and pregnant or lactating women; however, for example, grandparents who care for their grandchildren may also obtain them. As for the communities, officials are invited to present themselves to receive a quantity of tablets corresponding to their capacity. Between the release of the nuclear emergency plan and the January 1, 2020 letter, 685,767 boxes of iodine tablets had been distributed to citizens and communities. For details of the real-time inventory of pharmacies, the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products could provide you with more information. With respect to the protection of stakeholders, all disciplines receive adequate instructions and safeguards based on their exposure and assessment of the situation. Exposure to radiation is measured continuously using dosimeters. The royalty-funded nuclear fund for electricity producers has been created to cover all costs associated with implementation, including the protection and equipment of stakeholders in the field of the national nuclear emergency plan. In addition, decontamination devices for self-propelled vehicles with a mobile shower are available and agreements are made to obtain, if necessary, more equipment within the framework of ENGIE Electrabel's international cooperation mechanism. Hospital emergency plans are the prerogative of the Communities. I therefore invite you to contact the latter in order to complete this point of view. I come to the opinion of the Higher Council of Health. The nuclear emergency plan provides for socio-economic vulnerability analyses at the level of all relevant services in order to assess the impact of a nuclear emergency on its own areas of competence. Instead of leaving this to each department, NCCN decided to have a socio-economic vulnerability analysis carried out by an external agency. All preparations are finalized. However, the beginning of the analysis was postponed due to the current health crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u89	Minister, thank you for this long answer. I, for my part, will be very brief to let you go. I simply recall, as I did at the beginning of the committee, that the circumstances we are experiencing in the midst of a pandemic are indeed exceptional. They are not comparable to normal evacuation circumstances. I therefore believe that it is important to take these new circumstances into account in updating the emergency evacuation plan and also in distributing the necessary protective equipment to the population. Thank you and wish you a very good evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u90	Thank you very much. Similarly!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-11-55-commissie-ic175x.u91	Minister, we have come to the end of our work. We have finished all the oral questions that have been put to you so far. Thank you for staying so long to answer them. Thank you, Mr Mahdi, for your patience in asking your question.
