ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to everyone. Thank you, Minister, for being here. I know your time is limited, because you have several challenges to face. We will try to have a good debate in the limited time available, because the Minister has to leave around 3.45 p.m. As you've seen, we don't have a video conference. Videoconferencing rooms are very popular and few compared to the number of commissions. So we're going to have to operate in this room. Some colleagues have not yet joined us. I don't know if they'll join us or not. I hope some people don't wait at home hoping to have the link to the video conference because it won't take place. I propose that you function as you did last week during the SNCB debate. So when a colleague has a question, he has two minutes to ask it. If he has more than two questions, he has three minutes to summarize the whole. Like last week, to give more time to the debate, if some colleagues want to refer to the written text of their question, they can do it, it will save us a little time. In this case, the record will be complete and the Minister will be able to respond on a case-by-case basis. The debate therefore focuses on the implications of the pandemic for public enterprises. Last week, we had an exchange with Mr. Bellot on all the consequences and measures to be taken for staff, users, etc. within SNCB, Infrabel and skeyes. We are doing the same exercise today for bpost and Proximus in a single debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u2	I shall first give the floor to Mrs Dewulf. You have three minutes to speak for your two questions. Or are you referring to your written question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u3	Mr President, I will briefly summarise my two questions. Minister, bpost remains the most important parcel distributor in our country. I asked my first question when the transport companies in China were closed down, but I think this problem has already been solved. My second question concerns the complaints that were made in 2019 about postmen who didn't ring the bell. Due to the corona measures, the mailman may now sign for receipt in consultation with the customer. How many complaints have been registered today about not ringing or leaving too soon? How many complaints are there about not receiving a package by the customer while the package is registered as received with a postman's signature? What is the increase in the number of parcels? Is there a difference?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u4	You were indeed very brief, Mrs Dewulf. I shall then give the floor to Mr De Spiegeleer for his questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u5	Minister, I would like to thank you for your time because I understand that you have other obligations. I wish you much courage and strength in that. My question concerns the extra charge of 25 cents by bpost to the dispatcher of packages from Easter Monday last. It is clear that the corona crisis has led to an increase in the number of packages to be shipped. That's normal, too. Bpost also suffers from the corona crisis in terms of workload. One compares the large volumes in the festive end-of-year period with the volumes in the corona crisis that a whole society suffers from. That's painfully cynical. This shows little understanding, solidarity and flexibility of bpost and so does employers' organisations. Moreover, this price increase will not help the postal service in the field, nor will it help the citizen who is teleworking or technically unemployed or who is in a crucial profession in the care sector to keep our society running. Minister, what is your specific view of this very sudden increase in prices? I would like to stress that it is very sudden (...) When and by whom was this question asked or suggested this proposal? Has there been any discussion with the sector which received this supplement split into the stomach? If so, when? What was the outcome of this consultation? Have there been any concessions? If so, in which direction did they take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u6	We apologize for the technical flaws.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u7	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his presence here. I have a few brief questions about bpost. We can say that bpost and operational staff are in the line of fire today. My brother is a postman, and when I see with what conviction all those postmen and other staff are working today, we can admire that very much. The impact of the corona crisis is also very large on the company itself, as a previous speaker said. There is a huge increase in the number of packages, similar to the end of the year period. Only now we are not sure how long this will last, because it is a different situation. There must also be more tents and more capacity to keep the distance. The impact on bpost is large and many measures have already been taken from the company. On the one hand, there is the package charge, not at all evident for SMEs, but for bpost it seems inevitable. On the other hand, there is the risk premium for the employees. I have two questions about that. These two measures have been taken by the company itself. How can the government intervene in this? Take the risk premium. The employees are counting on it. Is there any way to make that tax-friendly? Will that also be taxed? That's what I'd like to hear from you. The package fee can be understood from the context of bpost, but a lot of SMEs are counting on their working through web shops today, often the only way to survive. Is there any possibility of public intervention in this too?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u8	Mr President, I have a second question about Proxiumus. Do all Proximus employees who are at work and go to the people's home have sufficient protection? Is there any consultation there on any risk premium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u9	I don't see Mrs Dierick. I suspect not all colleagues have seen that this would not be a video conference. Some probably thought they could stay home. For those who live in Brussels, coming here is not a problem, but perhaps it is a problem for the others. A few colleagues let me know that they cannot be present. You have the content. Would the Minister agree to provide the answers to the content of their questions in his intervention? That would be great.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u10	Ms. Zanchetta and Ms. Hanus referred to the written text of their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u11	Minister, thank you for being here because the issues discussed today are also important. All emergencies must be managed. I wanted to ask you two questions in connection with Proximus and the Belgian Institute of Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT) about such a sensitive subject of public health, namely the development of 5G, which was announced on 31 March by Proximus. This is a first form of development, which could be described as "light", but which was done without any consultation with the municipalities concerned in Flanders and Wallonia, when we were already in the painful context of the crisis of the coronavirus. It seems to us quite inappropriate to have set up such a facility, forced it, since no exchange has taken place with the communes. Could you explain that? I know that a letter was sent to the communes on 13 March. My colleagues from Ottignies, Louvain-la-Neuve and Namur provided me with a copy. But all the communes that I contacted replied clearly that they did not agree, that we had to come and explain to our fellow citizens. They do not want to launch new bands or expand existing ones like that. Despite these answers, Proximus has made progress. This really raises questions in terms of methodology, and given the timing, it seems incomprehensible to us. The second file, which is obviously linked, concerns the IBPT's public inquiry, which was launched on 24 March at the beginning of the confinement. This investigation was completed yesterday and involved the granting of provisional use rights to the introduction of 5G. Public investigations cannot be conducted during such a period, a period of confinement, a deep health crisis. And all the more so on a subject so sensitive to health. We have already discussed it here in committee. This is a very sensitive debate that concerns the health of our citizens. I ask you, minister, to postpone and actually cancel the consultation that ended yesterday and to postpone it. The conditions for a genuine citizen and democratic debate on a sensitive and important subject were not in full confinement. We therefore call for the postponement of this necessary debate and this necessary citizen consultation when we are out of confinement, perhaps in September, but the study must really be postponed. A final element relating to bpost workers. I would be interested to hear the new working conditions put in place to protect them because they are on the front line. With my colleague Kim Buyst, I was also wondering what kind of customers this was about in terms of price increases for package delivery. Does this concern both SMEs and large multinational enterprises? I would like to understand the tariff change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u12	Minister, I would particularly like to thank the thousands of Bpost and Proximus staff for their incredible commitment in these very difficult times. They have to work very hard. By the way, two postmen died at bpost, including a 25-year-old boy. I take this opportunity immediately to express my sincere condolences to the family. In any case, those staff members can certainly be put in the flowers for their enormous commitment. Firstly, we call for non-essential tasks, such as the distribution of advertising and package returns, to be temporarily discontinued, so that staff have more time to carry out other tasks. We also ask for additional cleaning staff to be recruited so that all areas, machines, boxes, can be disinfected regularly in the sorting centres. Does bpost take the initiative to protect the health of workers? If staff show signs of illness, is their temperature measured, for example? Can they stay home faster? Is there a special scheme for staff at risk, e.g. over 60? Finally, what investments were made in protective equipment such as gel, gloves, mouth masks? Are they available? After all, we hear in the field that social distancing is very difficult to apply in many places. In short, there are still many problems in the field of worker protection. I would like to return to our explicit request that advertising should not be distributed in this period for the sake of public health. Is it true that Aldi and other supermarket chains have lodged a complaint with bpost regarding the distribution of advertising printing works? Do they effectively threaten legal action so that advertising post would be distributed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u13	Minister, I would like to endorse what colleagues have said to bpost staff. Great efforts have been made to strengthen everything, which was also expected by many large and small shops, who suddenly had to switch to home delivery and e-commerce. They had great expectations of bpost, which tried to achieve them as far as possible. The price increase is then a small stain on the blazon, if one makes the comparison with Proximus. That State has made efforts to reduce the burden of the lockdown by making additional data available. There we see a difference between the approach of bpost for the companies that need the parcel service on the one hand, and that of Proximus on the other. Of course, these companies cannot simply be compared. At Proximus, huge efforts have been made, as records have been broken in terms of data consumption in our country over the past few weeks. I have heard that we were against the limits of the networks, but everything has remained intact. The company therefore deserves all praise for its efforts. I'll go into the actuality of 5G. For more than 25 years, discussions have been raging about the impact of radiation on health. Until now, however, it has not been possible to demonstrate that there would be damage to health in the short, medium or long term. The federal research institute Sciensano and Test Purchase also investigated this. However, one thing is certain: mobile telecommunications has saved a lot of lives today, rather than threatening them. So we should not try to slow down certain developments. On the contrary, we have to choose to roll them out further. I believe that it is a good choice for Proximus to take the lead in this, despite the fact that steps still need to be taken to auction the rights. Mrs Dierick would have liked to ask her question personally from Dendermonde. Since this is not possible, she asked me to refer to her written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u14	There has been a misunderstanding about the video conference. Unfortunately, too few rooms are available, namely 3 rooms for 12 committees. We hope to be able to reserve a room next week with the possibility of videoconferencing. The secretariat will, however, make it clear if it fails to do so. Many members are now used to being able to attend the meetings at home. Mrs Zanchetta and Mrs Hanus are not present for their questions. 55005137C and 55005237C. They shall refer to their written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u15	Minister, in general, this health crisis reveals the importance of public services for our citizens. There is containment and health rules and there are workers who perform so-called essential functions in the health care sectors but also in the public services. We talked last week about transportation and today we must pay tribute to the workers of bpost and Proximus who are at work and who carry out their missions that allow us to keep a social link (mail and telephone and internet services). For bpost, the Postcard system is a way to keep contact between families. These services are extremely useful. There are specific safety measures for workers with work pressure that is important in some places. As far as the safety of workers and users is concerned, everyone expects a clear message from the authorities on the level of masks. You will tell us what security measures are being taken by bpost and Proximus. For bpost, there's an explosion of packages. It's already problematic in normal times but we're like in the end-of-year holiday season. Minister, at a constant level, will bpost staff be able to cope with current volumes in the coming weeks? Is there enough staff? Are there recruitment problems? What is the strategy for meeting this growing demand? I asked you shortly before this crisis about an infrastructure investment plan to manage the increase in volumes. Will new sorting centres and/or modernization of the old ones be required?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u16	Mr President, it is my first physical meeting for three or four weeks, outside the plenary sitting, where we can also meet occasionally, of course. I would like to begin by thanking the staff of both bpost and Proximus. They provide an essential service today. Some do so in the very physical sense, namely the postmen who go around and deliver packets and letters, try to help people and thus try to do their duty, which is very difficult and admirable in these times. Proximus has in turn met the very strong growth in digitalisation. Both companies are well aware of their social mission. It is also important to mention this here. bpost, for example, has provided ten free tickets. It also looks at how as many packages as possible can be delivered on time via another organisation. Of these ten free tickets, more than 1.5 million have already gone around, which is an important number. bpost also helps us, wherever possible, in logistics and other operations. Proximus is actually the same thing. This has also supported many initiatives, some of which I mention: for example, it has distributed laptops and tablets to allow children to go to school, it has equipped hospitals and triage points with free Wi-Fi, a digital inclusion programme has been launched for disadvantaged young people, financial support is sometimes also given to SMEs, the increase in the amount of data has already been mentioned. Both companies are therefore well aware of their social and essential function in these very difficult times. Of course, all this is being done by the people on the ground, so I would like to thank them absolutely and very explicitly for the work they have already done and for the work they will do in the coming days and weeks and that will certainly not be less. I shall now turn to a number of specific questions. How is bpost, which, of course, falls within the scope of essential services, trying to organise efforts during the COVID-19 crisis, for example for staff? Important efforts are, of course, being made to keep the effective essential services, such as mail and parcels begging, tell-tale services, newspaper distribution and home payments of pensions going. There are also other general measures that are being taken to protect staff. Traditional hygiene measures – washing your hands with soap and water, touching your face as little as possible, keeping a physical distance of 1.5 metres – are applicable. Hydro-alcoholic gel and masks are also available. We use telework as much as possible. Cleaning teams received additional disinfectants to clean hazardous surfaces such as door handles, switches and stair ramps. At the request of the prevention service, the cleaning team may also perform an additional disinfection procedure. This is achieved through reorganization. Therefore, there are no additional staff to perform these tasks, but some tools are available. For the rest of the staff, it is clear that people who can telework do so. Specific measures are also taken for the operational services of the sorting centre. The different teams are divided to the maximum. People wear gloves. Training is given to ensure that the instructions are followed. Rotation between work areas is limited. Lunch takes place at different times. Shift start and end times are changed to prevent teams from crossing each other. The number of employees in the various shuttles is limited. Plexiglas windows are installed in the post offices and MassPost centres. Many measures are therefore being taken to protect staff. Sixty-six-plusers are not systematically placed on inactive. However, in consultation with the occupational health service, it is considered whether staff belonging to a risk group should be placed on a preventive non-active basis. This does not happen systematically, but with an individual assessment each time. As far as the general operational part of bpost is concerned, the mail volume has fallen sharply, but there is a very strong increase in the number of packages. This peak is currently being absorbed by organising additional rounds for the distribution of packages. They look at the staff, but also at interim jobs and job students and, where possible, post office staff from support or administrative services. That is a support for the sorting centres and the distribution services. The large volume of packages, which is even higher than during the end of the year period, sometimes causes delays, especially at peak moments. Customers will be informed of this. They understand, of course, that these are exceptional circumstances and that the normal delivery period cannot always be respected. Additional agreements are made with customers in relation to delivery of packages, so that volumes can be better distributed, but also that peak days can be avoided as far as possible. The increase in the number of packages is particularly high. On average, it's 280,000 packages. Currently, the numbers are comparable with a number of other peak periods. As I have already mentioned, more than 400,000 packages are delivered. Technical unemployment is not called upon and 1,500 additional temporary workers are recruited to meet this requirement. Of course, this has an impact on the organisation, but also on the budget. Bpost therefore decided to apply for a temporary surcharge of 25 euro cents from Easter Monday to the contractual customers, not to the individuals, to send a package. The reason for this is that there was no possibility of preparing for the increase in volumes, which is even higher than during the end of the year period. After all, the COVID-19 crisis has surprised every company. This increase will result in significant additional costs: additional staff, additional material for employees and additional protection measures. This surcharge is already common to the sector in times of peak periods. Again, it's just about the contractual customers. The supplement currently requested is lower than the supplement for the end-of-year period and focuses on the contractual customers, large or small, independent of the volume. This way, new customers can enter that system and see their packages delivered effectively. Thus, bpost should not refuse deliveries and should avoid asking for very high prices at the time when new companies want to do e-commerce or parcel delivery. I understand the displeasure that lives, especially among a number of smaller players who have to focus on e-commerce in these times in order to have an income, but I still ask for understanding. There is, however, the importance of the continuity of bpost services, so that everyone who wants to have packages delivered can do so. The essential services provided by bpost allow companies currently engaged in e-commerce to have an additional income available. If we close bpost tomorrow, this will also fall completely silent. That is why I believe there should be mutual understanding. On the one hand, a great deal of work has been gained from these packages, and on the other hand, I understand that it is not obvious that such quick announcements should be made. When we look at the situation in the end-year period, it seems to me to be the logic itself to do the same. As far as the delivery of packages is concerned, the procedure has been revised in order to respect social distancing. The phone rings, the package is handed over without contact, the mailman signs off on behalf of the customer. If the customer is not at home, a message is left and referred to a service point where the packages can be picked up. That is the new procedure that has been set up so that the mailmen who are to deliver the packages would be protected to the maximum. Bpost itself does not have detailed figures on the number of complaints. That's monitored by the watchdog. Today, of course, there is an exceptionally high volume of packages and so it will also be logical that the customer service of bpost is extra questioned. This is also extra manned and remains accessible. One handles half more calls than in a normal period of time. If that can be an indication, you already have an initial assessment. The customer service really does everything in its power to speak to people as well as possible and to explain what is going on. It is not always possible to provide more information than those available through the application that people use. There are a number of specific types of complaints, such as the fact that no calls have been made. The number of these complaints is relatively lower than other complaints. In this respect, I believe that we are responding to the demand and that the packages are also being delivered effectively. As far as advertising printing is concerned, every effort is made to safeguard the provision of postal services to the public and businesses. The distribution of advertising printing works is therefore also taking place at the moment. In doing so, the guidelines of the National Security Council are absolutely respected. I cannot give information about the specific complaints, because this is a contractual relationship between the company and the people on the other hand. There was also a question about bonuses. The granting of an exceptional premium was decided in early April. This premium is granted to all field staff (factors, sorters, drivers, teller machines, cleaners and technicians) and amounts to €8 net per day worked between March and the end of May 2020. This premium corresponds to a net amount of EUR 480 for the entire period. For non-operational staff, a general principle of remote work has been put in place and several hundred non-operational staff have volunteered this past week to assist their colleagues in the field. Here too, I think there is a great deal of solidarity within the company. So much for the most important answers related to bpost. A number of people are also infected with Proximus. The company also had to work differently during this crisis, with a significant impact on the activities and on the works that are carried out on a daily basis. There is a direct impact on staff, contractors, suppliers, but also on customers. There is also an impact on the business as such and on the use of the network. We see an increase of 50 % at fix voice, fix mobile and fix internet traffic and an increase of 35 % at Pickx for recordings, replay of movies and viewing series. Mobile data usage has been relatively stable in recent weeks. The network can also handle the increased capacity and remains stable. That's an important message. So we've been able to capture the rise perfectly. As far as residential customers are concerned, we see an increased demand for services and products. They must, of course, be given priority in order to ensure that the minimum essential telecommunications services remain available to all. To be able to provide not only those essential services, but also the full range of products and services, and to give more comfort to customers during their homework and their leisure time there is a strong follow-up. A plan was developed to activate these services, with respect for government measures and with the protection of Proximus employees. As far as business customers are concerned, Proximus tries to support them as much as possible. I am thinking here of strengthening the networks and offering solutions for homework. That's all under review. Of course, that has an impact on the business as such. There is today a loss of revenue due to the falling demand of customers and through requests for payment delays or suspension of payments and certain services. There is also a loss of revenue due to its own, correct, decision to offer certain critical services for free for a limited time. Of course, that decision has an impact on the operations. We believe that there will also be an impact in the medium term, because the economic recovery will have to be used first. There are also a lot of delayed or cancelled investments on the customer side. Customers also have increasing expectations and the preparation of the restart needs to be taken into account. We should also consider how, for example, we can speed up the follow-up of critical interventions. Proximus also looks at the safety and protection of employees. To this end, comprehensive measures have been taken which are balanced and aligned with public measures. There is extensive and frequent action with general communications, a specific emergency number and an e-mail address for information queries. There is very extensive information for the employees on the intranet. There's a daily follow-up through a crisis team. There is consultation with the employees' representatives. These are all elements that contribute to the safety of personnel. The measures taken also concern homework. On average, 9,000 employees do telework. There are also special support programmes for both mental and physical health. For people who still have to go to customers, there are about 1,000 internal employees and a plan has been drawn up to give priority to repair works and urgent connections. This reduces the number of assignments so that the exposure of employees is reduced. There is a list of comprehensive instructions to guide the work. Customers are warned by SMS, so that they too can take action, e.g. leave the house for a while, so that the co-weaker can make a connection. On arrival at the customer is also checked that there are no excessive risks. If the security measures cannot be respected, the intervention shall not be carried out. There is also the classic provision of products and materials, as I have just described at bpost. That's important, too. About 5G, it is true that Proximus has been preparing it for years with tests announced since 2016. Proximus has launched the 5G light via the use of the already available spectrum. So this is not a new spectrum. As for the choice of the first cities for the launch of the 5G, Proximus has based itself on areas where there is already a large demand for mobile data. This choice is therefore based on the actual use of customers. In the deployment of networks, the aim is, of course, to effectively roll out this technology as soon as possible, taking into account existing safety and health requirements. Proximus has not changed anything in terms of emission power and meets the environmental standards currently in force in each Region. As a result, there are no additional programming as part of the 5G launch. There is, of course, also a very high awareness among the company that many mayors and citizens are asking themselves about 5G questions. It has therefore also posted answers on its website and contacted the municipalities in order to provide additional information, so that those local authorities can also respond to questions they receive from citizens. At the same time, some Walloon municipalities have asked Proximus to suspend 5G activation on their territory in order to give them time to inform the population about this. In order to conduct these discussions calmly, Proximus agreed to temporarily suspend its deployment in these communes. Thanks to this provisional stop, the company will be able to exchange constructively with the Walloon Region and the municipalities about the contributions of 5G and share reassuring information on health and the environment with regard to this new technology. I do agree with Mr van den Bergh who said that we must of course also recognise that this is a technological advance which we must not stop. As long as we remain within the prescribed international standards, many citizens and businesses will be able to benefit from 5G very quickly. This is also the reason why the public consultation has continued from the BIPT and why we continue to support other measures that should make it possible not to delay the roll-out of 5G in Belgium. So, Mr President, I have covered most of the questions on the list. I think that has covered many aspects of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u17	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u18	Around the interests of shipping there is indeed the ministerial decision of 23 March, which identified ports and shipping as essential services. It goes without saying that there is a need for maximum support for its operation. You are right to point out in your question: shipping is an economic activity with a very large international dimension and is therefore also subject to decisions that are being taken in different continents. That is something we are trying to take into account. However, this does not prevent the protection of seafarers from being safeguarded, also in view of the importance of international trade. This was already the subject of consultations at various levels. At international level, the Secretary-General of the International Maritime Organisation has called on all UN countries not to prevent or restrict the exchange of ship crews. Belgium has, of course, supported these letters. At European level, weekly consultations are held between the European Commission, the Maritime DG and other European countries on the impact of the current crisis on shipping. The exchange of seafarers is always high on the agenda and is also continuously monitored. On 17 March, the European Heads of State or Government decided to introduce a temporary entry restriction from countries outside the EU, with the exception of transport personnel who are still allowed to travel from outside the EU to Belgium regardless of their nationality. At national level, however, movements are permitted for professional purposes, especially in the context of essential services. We therefore do not impose any restrictions on international seafarers as regards their movements for professional purposes. With regard specifically to Belgian seafarers, legislation is being prepared in consultation with the social partners, which should allow seafarers to stay on board a Belgian ship for longer if three conditions are met: firstly, the seafarer himself must agree; secondly, it must be impossible to return home safely and, thirdly, the extra time on board is covered by an individual maritime service contract. Those are the three conditions we have imposed. The quarantine sometimes imposed on seafarers is also important. Measures were agreed with the ship's agency and shipping companies to ensure that the necessary social distancing measures are complied with, for example when taking a taxi on the way to the airport and so on. There are no quarantine obligations. There's no need to put hotel ships in either. We have also seen that a number of countries have had bad experiences and that problems can quickly arise there. Today, therefore, there are no indications of disruption of international trade by any restrictions on entry introduced by third countries. We are, of course, seeing a fall in international trade as a result of the crisis. However, I believe that everyone is well aware that this crisis is going to hit our economy, including the international economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u19	Everyone will be able to react. Mr Toventors, are there any questions that you have not received any answers to?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u20	Mr Minister, I had tabled a question on the way in which the general meeting of Proximus was organised and on the way in which that formula was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u21	Minister, the written text of colleagues' questions is part of the debate. If we don't answer it, it's not okay. Please.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u22	I will reply in writing later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for being here. The workload at bpost is high and would be even higher now than in the end of the year and there is every effort to reduce the workload. But will the work still be carried out correctly? The increase in the number of packages is likely to stabilise over time. Isn't it possible to restart Taxistop? I'll give you that as a suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u24	Mr Secretary, I apologize for the technical malfunction. It's better now. Thank you for the answers. They were clear, but a little predictable. It is true that staff, not only from bpost, will be put under extra pressure, but the sudden increase in prices remains a pity. Especially the smaller and more recent players in e-commerce are indeed the biggest victims, rather than the big players. Moreover, this does not relieve the postmen and therefore does not relieve the customer. That's a bit of a stain on bpost blazing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Worldwide, about 1 million shipmen are at sea and about 1 million ashore, waiting or not to relieve their colleagues. The powers for all aspects of shipping and ship crew: social aspects, financial aspects, statute, international rules depending on country-by-country, world trade, are fragmented across the various departments and even over federal and regional powers. I already asked questions about this to your colleagues at the federal level. You're the first to give an answer. The work of seafarers is exhausting and requires a lot of energy. Apart from the social aspect that seafarers want to see their families, their safety is also important. It is good to hear that there is no problem for Belgian seafarers. I hear international sailors have been quarantined for weeks. They themselves measure their temperature. They are healthy and could leave the ship, but it is not allowed. It is therefore understandable that they feel abandoned. It seems as if they are a danger to society, which, of course, is not the case. While these shipmen are healthy and in quarantine, they cannot be relieved. In any case, I hope that a decision will be taken in the near future. I'm looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. It is a great punishment for what has happened in both companies over the past few weeks. One thing is not quite clear to me as to the risk premium at bpost. You say that the staff can count on a premium of EUR 8 net per day, or EUR 480 for that period. That is a good thing, but you did not say whether that premium was exempt from tax contributions. This makes a difference for staff: if tax contributions are to be paid, the cost of bpost is much higher. Perhaps then there is a chance that the premium will be paid in ecocheques, which in turn is less attractive to the staff. I'd like to get an answer to that. Can you guarantee that it is indeed about a net payout?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. You are right to say that bpost and Proximus provide very important services for the population. The factors do a remarkable job in difficult conditions. We have to pull our hat in the face of their efforts. As far as Proximus is concerned, I asked you about moving forward without consultation with certain cities. I do not wish to repeat a debate on 5G here; we will do so later. I wanted to stress the timing chosen and the lack of consultation. As a result of this unappreciated approach, five Walloon communes asked to start from scratch: Louvain-la-Neuve, Namur, Waterloo, Tournai and Arlon. I quote them because they are headed by mayors of five different parties. This does not work on such a sensitive subject, without consultation. It is important to consult with citizens and we are pleased that Proximus will hold public meetings, particularly in Louvain-la-Neuve, to explain the situation. With regard to the IBPT investigation, without going into the substance of the case, requesting a public inquiry during a period of confinement is not appropriate. This cannot be considered to have been done correctly. Citizens have not even realized the existence of this survey, they have other priorities today. So we need to review the copy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u28	Minister, I am pleased to hear that you attach such importance to public services. It is a good thing that we see again how important these are in this period. I have two comments to make. Firstly, I am very sorry that you do not regard the distribution of advertising as a non-essential task. However, this would reduce the workload for staff and improve the safety of staff. There is also an ethical aspect to our question. So we are very sorry that you do not want to go into that. Secondly, it is very good that there are recruitments. We hope that you can give these people a permanent contract so that they can stay in the company. During the end of the year, you also recruited staff, but the contracts were then terminated. Now you have to rehire. We therefore hope that these recruitments will be converted into fixed contracts. Finally, I would like to propose that part of Mr Van Gerven's farewell grant be allocated to the staff, who are now doing such a fantastic job for society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u29	Minister, I would like to come back to one point because it was very quickly. I don't know if you answered. Anyway, I didn't hear. This is Mrs Hanus' question on the indexation of the social component of the universal service. We're talking about the internet here. This is in fact a reduction granted to persons because of their low wages, or because of their status as an elderly person, disabled person, etc. It has been 11.50 euros per month since 2012. The request is as follows. Could these amounts not be reviewed or indexed? Did you answer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u30	Mr President, this is not planned for the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-22-55-commissie-ic155x.u31	I take note of your answer. I'm not saying she's happy with me, but at least she'll be on the record. For my part, I thank you for your loans in this exchange of views. Again, this has not happened in optimal conditions, and I regret it. On the other hand, timing is good. It is important, before you leave, that the bpost and Proximus workers know that our committee and all the groups here have spoken out to welcome their work, in general, but even more so in this difficult time. For your part, you make sure with the management of the companies that all measures are taken at the level of safety, depending on the means available. Thank you very much. I would also like to add something for my colleagues which I regret very much. I learn that apparently our committee could not be followed up on streaming. There was also a problem at that level. Already, the commissions are not public, but if in addition they are not accessible via the internet... I don't know what happened, but I'll still let you know. I do not deal with logistics or technology in the house, but whether it is the responsibility of our colleagues or the responsibility of the outside world, it was almost a committee in camera and it is extremely regrettable. I'll let you know.
