ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-13-55-commissie-ic234x.u1	Colleagues, I apologize for my late arrival. I welcome the Minister, who informs me that she has made her last royal decision (no. 39) will explain. She was a regular customer on the committee and was very productive in the application of powers of attorney. I thank her for the loyalty she has shown to our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-13-55-commissie-ic234x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we support the proposal. Not only people working in the healthcare sector were at increased risk of being infected with the corona virus. The same applies to all workers in the key sectors, for example in the supermarkets, who were not closed during the first phase of the lockdown and the peak of the pandemic. The scope of the proposal is explicitly limited to infections before 18 May. After that, the entry into force of the exit measures eliminates any risk in the sectors concerned. We therefore believe that the time limit is a good measure. We have another question on Article 3. It lays down the conditions under which a person is entitled to be recognised as an occupational disease, but not the way in which proof is to be provided. The explanatory memorandum does not go into this either. I would have liked to have more explanation about that. In what way will that happen? The Finance Inspectorate notes that the linking of the right to an occupational disease recognition to the condition that a minimum distance of one-and-a-half metres is kept on the work floor is sometimes difficult to control. According to the Finance Inspectorate, application will lead to problems of interpretation and may pose a risk of unequal treatment. On the basis of which objective criteria will we try to check whether or not that condition is met?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-13-55-commissie-ic234x.u3	Mr. Chair, I thank the Minister for the work done and for the temporary recognition of VOCID-19 as an occupational disease for certain duties. Minister, it is early July and we have the setback to find out how many people are affected by these provisions and the cost it will cost. Do you have the distribution between the public and private sectors?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-13-55-commissie-ic234x.u4	Minister, from the beginning, we have raised the idea that it is important to review the conditions associated with this royal order and to broaden the group of people who could benefit from this process a little bit. Although the Council of State has pointed out that it sees no difficulties related to this date of 17 May, we want to remain attentive, possibly through a regular evaluation of the arrangements put in place. We would like to see an assessment carried out as soon as possible on the current conditions, the time frame and the list of trades which can fulfil these conditions. We would very quickly like to identify a number of elements that would make it clear that this Order is truly relevant and is in line with the issues related to this proposal. Minister, we would like to hear from you about this. At the same time, we stress that this initiative was necessary, if not indispensable, under the current conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-13-55-commissie-ic234x.u5	Madam Minister, as the honourable Members have pointed out, it is obviously a very good thing that this decision should be taken, but our group nevertheless has some regrets. First, the measure applies only to workers who worked from March 18 to May 17 and whose illness was found between March 20 and May 31. If this period covers the peak of the pandemic, it can be regretted that it has not been extended beyond. Indeed, it is difficult to understand that a worker who falls ill after this period cannot benefit from this recognition, while his illness has been contracted at his place of work. Secondly, the measure is limited to workers who have worked in a company in a crucial sector. We also regret this limitation. During this period, a large number of workers who were not in a crucial sector continued to work, while the rules of physical distancing were often not respected. For example, we think of construction workers. Why, by the way, are these excluded? We consider the conditions of recognition to be too restrictive. But we have supported and will continue to support this order, which also reflects Fedris's opinion. It is therefore a very good thing, but, like my colleague Mrs Leroy, I think that we will have to make an assessment of the measure and carry out a broader reflection on improving the system of occupational risks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-13-55-commissie-ic234x.u6	Mr President, Minister, the PVDA-PTB Group naturally also welcomes this royal decision. It is a step in the right direction that all workers who have kept our country running during the lockdown period are now covered by the temporary extension of the law on occupational diseases. We think that is a good thing. We have, of course, also tabled a legislative proposal to include not only workers in the essential sectors and services under the law on occupational diseases, but also all other workers employed in the non-essential sectors. You will most likely reply that, according to the Ministerial Decision of 23 March on the division into essential and non-essential sectors, if the non-essential sectors have continued to operate, all measures of social discrimination could be respected and production would have been suspended if they had not. However, on the basis of the figures we have requested from Mr Muylle's Minister of Work, we find that the inspection of welfare supervision at work has checked a lot of companies, including non-essential companies, and it shows that 70% of these companies were not able or unwilling to apply the guidelines of social discrimination. In this sense, we find it worrying that a distinction is still being made between workers in essential and non-essential sectors, while, in our view, all workers must be taken into account by the Royal Decree, including those in the non-essential sectors. When we explained our proposal, we already referred to the French National Academy of Medicine, which had already argued on 3 April that not only the workers of the crucial or essential sectors should be covered by the regulation of occupational diseases, but also all other workers because the workplace is, by definition, naturally social in nature. Social interaction, also in the workplace, contributes to the spread of the virus. This is also the definition Fedris uses to justify why there is a certain occupational risk compared to the general risk in the general population. Public and social life were strictly regulated during the lockdown period, while at some point it was no longer so at the workplace. Think of 4 May, when the distinction between essential and non-essential was removed, but at that time there was still a much greater, significant risk of exposure to COOVID-19, including for the non-essential sectors. The French National Academy of Medicine had also advocated this. For the sake of completeness, also the figures on the number of coronadods in the United Kingdom show that there is a clear correlation between the exposure to the disease and the extent to which one has to work in the vicinity of third parties across all occupational groups. Compared to the mortality rate in the general population, five out of the nine largest occupational groups have a higher mortality rate, mainly for men. The first is the low-skilled sectors, with low wages, such as factory workers, where teleworking is obviously very difficult. For women employed in other sectors, such as health care and other services, we also see an increase in mortality rates. Admittedly, we must always be mindful of correlation and causal links, but we do see strong indications and believe that these data are important enough to argue that such recognition should also be available for workers in the non-essential sectors. A second element of criticism concerns deadlines. Why only until May 17th? You will of course reply that at that time the second phase of the exit strategy has entered into, with the relaxation of the measures, allowing more social interaction in the private sphere and in public space. We believe that the risk at the workplace was still greater because public and social life was even more regulated than the workplace. There were a lot of recommendations, but from then on they will be much more in contact with third parties and with colleagues. It is not as if the risk of exposure would magically disappear from 18 May. The Council of State confirms this in part, because it states that the dates chosen may violate the principle of equality and wonders why those dates were chosen, and I quote literally:'set certain dates on the basis of criteria which appear to be of little relevance, let alone as scientifically substantiated'. The Council of State is asking for strong accountability as to why those dates were chosen. We are curious about the answer you will give and what motivation you can give.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-13-55-commissie-ic234x.u7	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we too are pleased that a solution has been found for workers from the key sectors within the framework of occupational diseases. After all, it is they who have turned our country around. If they have contracted corona contamination at work because they were unable to comply with social discrimination and because they have committed themselves, it is only natural for us that they should now be recognised as an occupational disease. In this sense, we can support the regulation. However, we still have a number of questions and criticisms in this respect, but also a number of proposals. Firstly, the scheme applies if workers have worked in key sectors and have not teleworking. That seems pretty clear to me. Even if they have not been able to comply with the one-and-a-half meter social distancing, the scheme applies. How are they supposed to prove these conditions? Is there any way to report a problem in advance? In this way, if they experience something during work, can they report it as well? Could we not introduce a hotline? For my two other comments, I agree with some of the previous speakers. It's about the deadlines. Why was the starting date chosen on 8 (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-13-55-commissie-ic234x.u8	Mrs Vanrobaeys, we heard you say, "Why did the date of entry be 8..." Then the sound went away.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-13-55-commissie-ic234x.u9	(...) the fund is reimbursed for occupational diseases. That date was fixed on 10 March 2020. The same applies to the end date. For volunteers, that date has been renewed. However, if we take into account the observation made by the Council of State that the dates have been chosen somewhat randomly, the following question arises. Why have certain dates been chosen for one group and different dates for the other group? Our question and suggestion is whether they cannot be put on the same dates as the data for the volunteers. The target group is limited to workers from the key sectors. In our view, people from non-essential sectors were also at greater risk of infection than the ordinary workforce. Figures show that there are many infections at work. We ask ourselves the following question and we would also like to make this suggestion. We would also like to hear your opinion on this suggestion. Would it be possible to extend the target group to people belonging to non-essential sectors? We certainly believe that this is necessary when the internal or external prevention service has included in its report that social discrimination has not been complied with at work or when an inspection of well-being at work has found an infringement by failing to comply with social discrimination, the measures contained in the generic guide or the protocol. In this case, we do not think it is important whether it is an essential or a non-essential sector, since the prevention service or inspection has established that people have been more at risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-13-55-commissie-ic234x.u10	Colleagues, does anyone else want to ask a question? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-13-55-commissie-ic234x.u11	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions. Mrs Houtmeyers, you are asking how the evidence is to be provided. For the purpose of processing the application, it is important to provide as much information as possible on the nature of the professional activity carried on, in particular during the last few weeks before symptoms occur, on the medical evolution of the condition, on the laboratory results that the virus can demonstrate and the duration of the incapacity for work prescribed by the doctor. The infection by COVID must be demonstrated by a reliable laboratory test. In exceptionally serious cases, Fedris' doctor will be able to accept the diagnosis on other grounds. For example, in hospitals, diagnoses were made at a certain point on the basis of a compatible CT chest scan and even on the basis of a suggestive clinical performance without a test. That is always stated in the report on hospitalization or the medical report. Mrs Houtmeyers and Mrs Vanrobaeys, you ask how the one-and-a-half meter condition is controlled. The conditions are controlled by Fedris. It is common practice for Fedris to examine dossiers in which very specific activities and circumstances on the workers' field of work have to be taken into account. With regard to the evidence that it is impossible to maintain a distance of one and a half metres in contacts with other people, Fedris will be able to assess, on the basis of a series of indications and depending on the nature of the activity, to what extent the precautionary measures adopted are unlikely to be complied with up to the letter. For example, a police patrol carrying out an intervention is difficult to observe the distance of one and a half metres. Fedris therefore takes concrete circumstances into account. The employer can also be contacted to ask questions about the working conditions. Mrs Leroy, you asked me why the period had been limited in time. We opted for the period from March 11 to May 17 which corresponds to the period of confinement. Starting on 18 May, phase 2 of the deconfination began and more social contacts were again possible. In doing so, it could no longer be assumed that an infection with VOCID was inherent in professional activity. The widespread presence of the virus in all segments of the population and everywhere made infection possible both in the private and in the professional setting. In other words, it could no longer be said that the risk of occupational exposure to VOCID was significantly higher than in the general population or that it was inherent in the exercise of an activity. This is why influenza, for example, is not recognized as an occupational disease. In addition, the period corresponds to that advocated by Fedris in its opinion of 13 May. An evaluation will be made when Fedris completes all the calculations. It will normally be included in its annual report. It will take over the circumstances and the way in which the land lived this period. Mrs Galant, you asked me how many people are affected and the cost of this provision. I can't answer you right now. Today we are at the stage where applications are submitted and files are made. The audit work is ongoing. As soon as it is completed, it will be possible to perform the calculations. We have not yet had time to make the evaluation and the calculation, but as soon as they are available we will, of course, present them here. This will undoubtedly also be discussed during the hearings in the special committee on the fight against the COVID-19 epidemic. At the moment, however, there is still a lot of work to be done in dealing with the dossiers, while there is still a lot of work to be done. Mr De Vuyst, Mrs Vanrobaeys, with regard to enlargement to include non-essential services, I asked Fedris' opinion to consider how the occupational disease system could be extended to include the exceptional event of a pandemic which required continuing work in certain key sectors and essential services. As Fedris is managed in a joint manner, the opinion was drawn up on the basis of an exchange of views and the work of the social partners. I fully followed the advice given by Fedris for the special powers of the KBs. Important in this respect was the fact that the increased risk had to be the result of the work. After all, Fedris always reasons like that. For non-essential sectors which stop activities or impose telework on their employees, an extension of the rules goes a little too far. Moreover, the social partners will not accept enlargement if contamination is not linked to work and Fedris will therefore not intervene. Mr De Vuyst gave figures from the UK, but we will have enough trouble processing our own figures. After all, we know how we acted; in the UK it was a completely different matter. That will be investigated. Moreover, I wonder whether he is based on research in order to draw conclusions from that already. To Mrs Vanrobaeys and Mr De Vuyst, who referred to the comments of the Council of State, I would point out that we had to set a starting and closing date, which was based on something. Here the data are related at the beginning and end of the lockdown, because by continuing to work in certain sectors and services during that period the employee has exposed himself to an increased concentration. It is therefore compulsory to indicate a start and end date. In the meantime, we have seen a lot of opinions passed here, and the Council of State always makes a comment on this, as it can always be said that the definition of data can lead to discrimination. As regards the introduction of a hotline, Mrs Vanrobaeys, as quoted, the requested information should be included in the application file. A hotline, I don't see that right. At Fedris one always works with applications and with files that are made up and upholstered. Reporting points themselves will not give any additional rights. It is possible to report certain cases, but it is not certain that a dossier will be drawn up because of occupational risks. For volunteers there is an ad hoc system and that is quite different. I have said this before, on something that was submitted earlier. They have a different regime, because these volunteers continued to work in care during the crisis, but also afterwards, in the rest homes and the residential centres, as well as the Red Cross centres. I have already talked about broadening the target group. Fedris is prepared by an agreement between employers and employees to expand this target group. Those who weren't essential had to close down. The other ones that weren't okay because they didn't respect the rules were also closed. I don't think Fedris is gonna cover this because they're not witty about it. One can always ask that at the hearing, but I do not think there is much enthusiasm for that. If we are to achieve a definition based on the advice we have received, it must also be respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-13-55-commissie-ic234x.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the Minister has answered all the questions in detail. No one's asking for the floor for a reply anymore? [[No.]] Then I can close the meeting. Madam Secretary, we see each other in the ratification of the royal decrees.
