ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank Minister De Crem for being here to answer questions that are all related to the corona crisis. This was discussed at the Conference of Presidents and it was decided to organise topical debates on corona by committee. Of course, we understand the overcrowded agenda of the ministers concerned, but we insisted on organising topical debates this week, this morning with Minister De Crem and this afternoon with Minister De Block. We're going to test Zoom's system today, a scoop for our committee. In the meantime, I see that everyone is familiar with this and is ready for this meeting. I'd like to draw everyone's attention to your constant exposure. I also explained the system of mute and unmute. It was also successfully tested by everyone. Before I start with the questions, I wish to agree on the next method. 45 questions were put. If we had to follow the Rules of Procedure, we would be finished asking questions at 12 noon and the Minister could return to the Cabinet without having received an answer. I don't think this should be the intention. I propose that I respect the order of the parties as the questions were put, but that each group should have ten minutes to speak, bringing together all the questions. To give a practical example. The PVDA Group has tabled seven questions. I propose that all these questions be asked in ten minutes. Nor should we give a long context sketch, everyone knows what the corona crisis means. It would be very good for everyone to be very concise and to keep to their specific questions. Is everyone okay with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u2	Mr President, before we begin this question session, I would like to comment on the fact that some of my questions are not included in the questionnaire to this debate. With regard to the corona crisis, I have tabled three questions to the attention of Minister De Crem, but to my surprise these questions are not included in the questionnaire. It appears that this has been done because my questions would have to do with the power of attorney decisions, so that my questions have been referred to the COOVID-19 committee. With the best will in the world, none of my questions have anything to do with the power of attorney decisions. I am therefore very surprised that these questions have been put aside. Minister, the press sometimes blames you for playing soloslim or acting like a sheriff next to and above the government. I don't know you like that. I know you as a very reasonable person. I have been informed that the questions were referred to your cabinet. I do not see you as someone who wants to evade Parliament's right of control, nor do I know you at all. I therefore assume that the referral of my questions is a mistake. I shall therefore put my questions to you today, in any case, within the ten-minute speaking time allocated. I hope you will answer my questions today. If not, I would like to reply to my questions tomorrow at the latest to the plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u3	Mr Donné, I take note of that. You have the time to do so in the ten minutes for the N-VA Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u4	Mr President, I have not tabled any oral questions, but do I also have ten minutes to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u6	Mr President, do you give the floor to the political groups according to their size?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u7	No, I am using the order of the parties as they have submitted their questions. Each group has ten minutes of speaking time and I ask the groups to ask all their questions within that time limit. Then the Minister responds. I give the floor to Mr Colebunders for his questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that everyone is safe and sound. My first question is about the airport police and the corona virus. This question was tabled some time ago. Many questions have already been answered. There are protective equipment for the airport police, but things aren't working out as they should. There are still some pain points. The airport police are really worried. Because BIAC is an international driving wheel, they run an increased risk of corona. Let me give you an example. Yesterday we saw that when the infected people were returned, the army was equipped with a full suit. The airport police were just wearing a mouth mask. The security officers and the police are at increased risk of the disease entering the country via the airport from abroad. They have to search people. What advice did you and your services send to the airport police? Did you do anything similar for the security officers? Does this sector itself take action? From the trade unions and staff at Brussels airport there is a clear desire for an overarching plan against the coronavirus. Will you work with your colleagues, ministers Bellot and De Block, to ensure that security personnel at the airport are fully involved in this plan? My next question concerns the role of emergency power stations in the fight against the corona virus. Last week, our country was deeply shocked by the death of 12-year-old Rachel as a result of the corona virus. This death is nobody's fault, but we do have a duty to investigate whether our emergency power stations have functioned. The operation of emergency power stations has been very often discussed in the Interior in the last year. We are aware of the problems involved. We got some other worried messages coming in from the emergency power stations. The calltaker was unable to understand the victim properly due to language problems, because he was so panicked. After several times trying to call back, the police were sent to the house, but by then the victim had already died. How much time was there between the first phone call and the arrival of the police and the death of the girl? Would the police have been able to get to the address faster and should have been sent, do you think? What are the guidelines here? There's an investigation going on why no ambulance was sent. What's the status of this investigation? If the directives have been implemented, have the directives been amended after this event? We have already received reports from the aid that the calltakers of the emergency power stations would not be sufficiently trained to correctly refer in possible cases of corona. For example, it is important that calltakers are able to correctly assess which cases should be immediately referred to the emergency and which cases should be referred to the general practitioner's triage posts. Although most people are being helped by primary care, emergency power stations also have an important role to play in this. The structural under-utilization of emergency power stations has become increasingly evident in recent months. How do these deficits emerge during this crisis? Is there an increase in the workload? Are there extra overtime? I have a question about the enforcement of the measures. The vast majority of Belgians follow the corona measures with solidarity and discipline. Many people are even asking for the current measures to be applied at work. There is therefore a strong support for the population. However, there is also a small, hard learner group that does not respect social distancing. Of course, the police have to be very strict here. However, there has been a great deal of confusion over the past week as to exactly what the powers of the police are. Strict measures are needed, but must always be applied with respect for democratic rights. In particular, there was confusion about the residence without a court order. We want to eliminate the confusion once and for all and we would like to think about how we can enforce the rules strictly but fairly. For example, the police can already enter homes when they catch people and get the approval of the public prosecutor. This is a very radical measure which would cause a lot of dust to blow up in normal times. We must therefore be careful to ensure that this is applied in a proportionate manner. Do our agents notice that they need this in practice? Are there, for example, people who are so hard learners that a normal fine is not enough to stop parties? Do many of the offenders refuse to open the door to the police? In how many cases has the house been accessed? If this happens, what is the procedure followed? I have another question about intra-family violence during the quarantine. As a Limburger, I was very close to the intrafamily violence that took place in Zonhoven last week. A 25-year-old girl was found dead and her boyfriend was arrested on suspicion of manslaughter. The women's movement makes recommendations in which our services also play a role. I will be brief, because apparently I only have ten minutes to speak. The Brussels-Noord police area is proactively calling people who have been victims of partner violence in the last three months. What do you think of this proposal? Do you think it is necessary that all police areas follow this example? Do you notice an increase in the number of calls? How do you estimate the ability to deal with partner violence during the corona crisis? What guidelines did the police and emergency power stations receive from your ministry to fight against violence within the family? How do we deal with reports of partner violence? What priority do they have at the moment? In what ways do your services work with other aid organisations, such as escape homes, to adapt to the new situation? In France, women can use the code word masque-19 to call the police for intra-family violence. This is already happening in Spain. We have heard in the press that we are thinking of introducing this here as well. Are you working with other ministers to launch a similar initiative? My next question is about the federal police's strike announcement. On 1 April 2020, he filed a strike notice to prosecute the lack of mouth masks. Everyone knows the examples of what's happening. So I'll be brief. How did the communication between your services and the police unions go over the past few weeks? How did the social dialogue work? Did your services take sufficient account of the demands of the police unions and receive sufficient signals that you took the situation seriously? How has the situation evolved since the strike announcement? On April 4, 2020, you claim to have purchased mouth masks for the police. How many masks are we talking about? How many agents will you be able to help during what time? According to what key are these masks distributed among police forces? What steps are you taking to bring masks to our country in coordination with all the other competent ministers and to distribute them across all the essential sectors of society they need? For example, the Risk Management Group did not initially consider the federal police as a priority group. Are you working closely with the relevant ministers to arrive at a global approach for our country? It is quite clear to me that we certainly need to do something for the police. Do you know how many people are currently infected with the federal police and the local police? I also have a question about the surveillance sector, but we are going to postpone it, if you will allow it. My final question is about protective equipment for paramedics and firefighters. As we all know, there is a shortage of protective equipment in our country. The paramedics are at increased risk. We have noticed that there is a different arrangement per arrondissement or even per ambulance group. That is why we would like to ask for a general rule. We notice that ambulance services from the fire department, for example, are broken down by certain hospitals. But there are also certain areas which, fortunately, had built up a large stock of protective equipment in the aftermath of the SARS epidemic. At the moment, the main problem is the aprons and disinfectants to disinfect the ambulances after each intervention. We have heard that the disinfectants that are normally provided for a year have already been used up in one week. Many ambulance services are breaking themselves down by diluting the disinfection soaps of certain firms in order to disinfect the ambulances anyway. What guidelines do the paramedics and the fire department get? How much protective material is in stock? Are figures kept across all zones?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u9	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to see you here today in good health. I would also like to thank the staff of the Chamber who have made it possible for us to have our committee meet today. Minister, I shall begin by speaking on behalf of my group. I will focus on the guidelines and their enforcement. After that, my virtual colleagues have a number of additions to other questions. I note that there is a great deal of consensus today on the need for exceptional measures to combat the corona virus. There is also a great deal of good will on the part of the police forces to enforce the measures as effectively as possible, as well as on the part of the citizens. Today, the vast majority of our citizens are making enormous efforts to comply with the rules. Minister, I have also heard the same good will from you. For example, last week, in your letter, you expressed the importance of clear, transparent directives, which must be able to be complied with uniformly. I am underlining that target for more than 100%. I only note that, in practice, there are still a number of difficulties about the clarity and transparency of the rules. In recent weeks, the guidelines of the Crisis Centre and thus the interpretation of the rules have been amended eight times. However, the law on which the interpretation is based dates from the Ministerial Decision of 23 March 2020, which is unchanged until now. I note that the fact that the interpretation of the law does change, but the law itself does not, in the field still creates some form of interpretative chaos. Let me give you an example, the recurring discussion about a solo basketter and the question of whether or not it should be fined. According to the letter of the law today, all individual physical activities are permitted. Someone playing basketball on their own is legally covered. However, the guidelines state that only certain types of physical activity, such as walking, walking, cycling and the use of non-motorised vehicles, are permitted. So a solo basketter doesn't break the law, but the guidelines say he does. There is therefore still uncertainty and uncertainty about such examples, both in the police zones, which do not know whether or not to fine such an example, and in the citizens, who sometimes feel that they are complying with the rules, but who are still subject to a fine or other sanction in the event of surprise and in the absence of any false intention. In addition, I would like to point out a second point of concern. It is far from clear whether the interpretation of the Crisis Centre has any legal value. For example, the public prosecutors have already indicated that they will only prosecute on the basis of what is laid down in the ministerial decision and not on the basis of guidelines on that decision. In other words, there is a risk that we will end up in legal quicksand in this way. Mr Minister, from our clear call that I am launching here to really work for clarity, preferably as transparent as possible from the ministerial decision, I would like to ask you what your opinion is on the position of the experts and the prosecutors who say that the guidelines of the Crisis Centre are not legally binding. It will improve clarity and legal certainty if the interpretation does not always change, but if the law itself is as up-to-date and as clear as possible. Do you intend to amend the Ministerial Decision so that it is legally clear and conclusive which activities are permitted or not allowed? Besides what's being sanctioned, my second question is about how to sanction it. The Royal Decree on the temporary extension of the GAS fines has now been published. Apart from the federal regulations, the local GAS regulations of the police zones or of the municipalities determine which infringements are subject to municipal administrative sanctions. In some of these police regulations there is an opening, a sentence about the refusal of obedience to the police. The Royal Decree on temporary gas fines builds on this. Reference shall be made to Article 187 and provision shall be made for a penalty applicable in the event of infringements. Several municipalities and police areas do not have this reference in their GAS regulations, but will they be able to apply the extension of the GAS fines in the same way, or should the GAS regulation explicitly include a reference to Article 187? Why is that, or why not? What steps should municipalities take to make that provision applicable, knowing that it may take some time to convene a city council and that it is difficult times to reach a city council decision quickly? From the publication of the royal decree in the Belgian Official Journal, I also conclude that today is the starting date. No retroactive effect shall apply. It is effectively stipulated that municipal councils still have to amend their regulations. However, in the Brussels police zones, for example, gas fines have already been used massively. Will the gas fines already issued before today be repaid or maintained legally? How do you intend to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u10	There are three minutes left for the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u11	Minister, I've been talking to you since Tihange and I'm worried about nuclear safety in the foreground. There are fears not only of the residents but also of the staff. The Tihange 1 revision has not been suspended while currently mobilising half of the workers on the site. Minister, is this review necessary? You have heard the call of the unions on the common front to suspend this work. This suspension would not pose any problems in terms of energy security. How can we safeguard nuclear safety in Doel and Tihange in times of crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u12	Minister, I would like to focus on the security of the police and the continuity of services. Since the onset of the crisis and containment measures, the police have been in close contact with the population and, for the most part, are not equipped with protective masks. These police officers are under severe stress and do not spare their time to ensure the safety of all at these difficult times. In the context of the shortage of masks, we understand that priority goes to the medical world, but after more than three weeks of containment and increased presence of law enforcement on the ground, I understand their concern and anger. They are an essential part of this struggle. Minister, how soon do you think you can equip the integrated police with masks and protective equipment that are useful to its missions and the safety of its officers? With regard to continuity of service, in the face of the structural shortage of police officers on the ground coupled with the crisis of the coronavirus, a project to exempt 800 future police officers is currently under discussion between the unions and yourself. Minister, what are your motivations? What is the rate of absenteeism in the integrated police force today? If this examination exemption project is introduced, what support will be available to these young people in the field? Do you confirm that this is indeed a break in the curriculum of these young police officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u13	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, I will try to go straight to the point. As soon as the containment measures were announced, I asked you about the risk of increasing domestic violence, on the basis of what was observed in China and Italy where containment measures led to a sharp increase in this phenomenon. The last figures fell yesterday. They are alarming as there is a doubling of calls and an intensification of the urgency. I am pleased that the Interministerial Conference met last week. For example, there is a need to raise awareness of this problem among the police, to increase vigilance on this issue and to focus on urgent or serious forms of domestic violence. Minister, how will these measures be implemented in practice? Is online training planned? How do you intend to ensure that police officers are more vigilant about this issue? The Brussels-North area had taken an initiative to recall the victims who had lodged a complaint during the last three months. Could this practice be generalized to all police areas rather than allowing for freedom of action in each area? This is indeed a priority and fundamental measure. The associations remind him every day. What resources will be allocated in terms of personnel, given that the police are already under pressure? What financial means will be used? Finally, there is still a lack of clarity in the royal decree concerning guest rooms. Are the latter treated as hotel rooms? Can they be requisitioned for the poorest? Can they be opened and made available? Is it possible to amend the Royal Order to clarify matters?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u14	Mr President, we will confine ourselves to asking questions, and I will focus mainly on the border. The mayors of the border municipalities themselves have already sounded the alarm about the feasibility of border controls. Minister, I would have liked to have had a state of affairs and an explanation of the difference in approach in the border municipalities. Is there now a uniform approach or are there still differences? If there are any differences, are you going to get rid of them? Also the much discussed checks on movements to the second residence have been increased in recent weeks, especially for the Easter holiday. We could read that the roads to the coast and the Ardennes were heavily controlled. What about second-timers elsewhere in the country? Do you believe that this measure can be applied correctly and equally for all Belgians with a second stay in this country? Is the measure feasible for all second stays with current control capacity? What about the excesses like using drones? Border checks also apply when we get Belgians back from abroad, via repatriation by plane. However, it is reported that countrymen we retrieve on arrival at the airport would not be subject to any control. Can you confirm that? What's the reason for this? How many Belgians have returned without being subjected to any kind of control? If there is no control, can you tell me what measures you intend to take? My colleague, Mr Ingels, will now take over to raise another sensitive issue, namely our protection measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u15	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago, the spokeswoman of the federal police expressed her good hope that protective equipment, especially masks and gels, would be distributed among the various corpses. I note that some mayors are now tired of waiting for that and taking initiatives themselves. Some schools, such as VTIs, are also starting to make masks for police services and relief zones. That is, of course, very nice and I understand that the deliveries that have already been made have to go to the care department in the first instance. There's definitely no discussion about that. Still, I'm pretty surprised the police were so low on the priority list. In the meantime, I understand she has been given a higher place on the list of Minister De Backer. Minister, you must explain to me how one can make an arrest and at the same time keep a distance of one and a half metres. I'm not talking about spitting at policemen by malicious people. How come all this is taking so long? Why doesn't the federal police take on a more coordinating role? After all, it is an important message for our policemen who now have an important role to play in the field if we protect them sufficiently. What are we waiting for?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u16	My questions concern the measures, their legal basis and their enforcement. No one disputes that tackling the crisis requires a number of temporary measures that have a serious impact on us going and going. That is not disputed anywhere, but these measures represent a very serious restriction of public freedom. They must therefore not only be justified and proportionate, but also have a clear legal basis, including in order to give their enforcement the necessary legitimacy and support. The basis assumes that the approach taken by the government is united. This means that clear guidelines are needed, as well as government partners who do not contradict each other in this respect. Meanwhile, we are ready for the fourth edition of the MB. It was last modified on April 3rd. It's a fairly short text. In addition, there is a FAQ list, which has been drawn up eight times. So that's where we're already at edition No. 8. This is a very bulky document, which can be consulted on the website of the Crisis Centre and goes far beyond the MB itself. This is very problematic in itself, because the police use that document as a basis to fine citizens and point out to them what can and cannot be done. I understand that for the first ministerial decision the opinion of the Council of State has not been requested. I can regret that, but I can understand it, for the sake of speed. The opinion could certainly have been requested for the subsequent decision, even since the Council of State can deliver opinions in a very short time frame under pressure from time to time. It is true that the ministerial decision is sufficient as a legal basis. This is allowed by the Civil Security Act of 2007, but wouldn't it be much stronger to work with a royal decision, preferably even consulted in the Council of Ministers, so that you have a consensus of the whole government on such a crucial matter? We would then also have a report to the King, in which the explanatory statement can be made and in which there can be an interpretation of the ministerial decision. That goes beyond the one magazine we have at our disposal and it would have much more legal force than the Crisis Centre's FAQ. In your view, what is the legal basis for fineing a citizen who does not comply with a measure that is in the FAQ and does not explicitly appear in the Ministerial Decision? Do you yourself consider that such an official document has sufficient legal basis for sanctioning it? If not, what do you wish to do about it yourself? A further element concerns the ministerial circular GPI 94. You have chosen to work with a circular to enable uniform application of the measures by the federal and local police. This circular does not itself issue directives, but merely creates a task force responsible for imposing those directives which are therefore mandatory. Minister, what is the composition of the task force? What is the exact legal basis that allows such a body to impose binding directives on all police forces? In addition, can you explain the role of the task force in COFECO? In the meantime, how many infringements were detected by the police in the context of the enforcement of the above-mentioned Ministerial Decision and the FAQ? In how many cases did an immediate friendly settlement be agreed? In how many cases did the persons concerned challenge the infringements? In how many cases have subpoenas been sent? Minister, I am not asking these questions to be difficult, but I think it is necessary to be very critical about this, not just because it is a very important issue and the citizens are daily busy with the question of what they can or cannot do. I am also asking these questions with a view to the future, because we are only at the beginning of this crisis and the management of the measures. We are already talking about the exit strategy and phasing out of the measures, but we will be facing policies, measures and documents for months to come, which will tell the citizens what they can and cannot do. It is therefore very important that the support for these measures is as broad as possible and that the legal basis can be attacked as little as possible. In that sense, the message is: try to increase your support. Try to communicate as one-sidedly as possible from the government and from the government. Try to involve Parliament where it can. That will increase the level of support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u17	Mr Donné, you have used up almost all your group's speaking time. I shall give the floor very briefly to Mrs Houtmeyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u18	Minister, my question is about cybersecurity. More than ever, people work from home. This means that companies are all the more vulnerable to cyber attacks. There is also a lot of smartphones that are more vulnerable than computers. Has there been an increase in the number of cyber attacks reports in recent weeks? Shouldn't businesses be better informed? Were initiatives taken to raise awareness in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u19	For some time now, Minister, our borders have finally been controlled. The Flemish interest is also strongly in favour of this in non-coronatimes, for other reasons. So I am very happy that everyone can now see that that is practically perfect. Of course, that requires extra capacity from the police. The police have fixed positions during the day, at the motorways and mobile stations at night. Local police are checking the secondary roads. Why, as in other countries, for example Austria, do you not respond to the offer of defence? Captain Carl Gillis stated that Defense is ready to act, if the government asks. It's not unique either. After the attacks of 2016, the army was also deployed to patrol the streets. So why don't you go into that explicit offer from the Defense Department to use the military for border controls? This would ease the burden on the police, which, of course, still has essential tasks, such as the enforcement of law and order and the control of compliance with all corona measures in the country. So it does not seem to me to be a luxury to relieve her of a number of tasks. You may also have taken or envisaged additional measures to improve border controls and release more police force for essential tasks in the country. Mr Minister, my second question concerns the protection of policemen, the lack of masks and the lack of systematic tests for police forces. Quite apart from the scandal that there is no strategic stock here and that orders from mouth masks go through a major blundering schedule, it is, of course, the logic itself that priority should be given to care personnel, but police people do play an essential role and are at very high risk. They come in close contact with people. They run an increased risk of running up the virus and of unwittingly passing it on in the course of their duties. In addition, there is the problem in some cities of the so-called coronas pwers, which rightly have to be severely punished. In my view, if the corona virus is to be deliberately distributed, it must be subject to severe penalties. In the meantime, have enough mouth masks been delivered to the police? Meanwhile, can the police claim the oral protection masks? If that is not the case, can you tell us when it will be? In what cases are police officers currently being tested? Where are we on the promised increase in test capacity? When will policemen be systematically tested? You have issued concrete measures against the so-called coronas pwers. Maybe it's a little early, but maybe you can give us some results already, even if it's just the number of CVs that were created to tackle the coronas pushers. My third question is about the government's communication. The ministers contradict each other too often. They contradict experts and the population is unclear about the measures. Let's take the example of partners who don't live together. We have heard four different versions about whether or not they should see each other in a day and a half from different ministers and experts. Then, of course, it is not easy for people to comply with the measures. The question of whether you will amend your ministerial decision has already been asked. I am asking myself legal questions. There's talk of staying home. There is no mention of a place of residence or an address for service. What's home? That is not a legal basis to prevent the owners of second stays from going to their second stay. In terms of clarity and legal basis, the ministerial decisions are still lacking. I hope you will be able to answer this now, otherwise I will certainly come back to that in the Corona Committee. On the lack of controls on people returning to this country, and on intra-family violence and the follow-up of problematic educational situations, which are even more precarious today, now that children are permanently at home, colleagues have already asked questions. So I am not going to prolong the speaking time unnecessarily by going into this in detail, but can you give me any explanation? How is this problem being dealt with in these circumstances?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u20	Mr President, how much speaking time do I have left?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u21	You have two minutes left.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u22	Mr President, in that case I will have a number of passages removed from my speech. I'll be brief. Minister, the asylum centres are currently in chaos. The corona guidelines are not complied with at all. Asylum seekers move in groups in various villages, go to the supermarket together and therefore endanger not only themselves but also other citizens. An employee of the Red Cross anonymously testified that most asylum seekers have no sense of what the corona virus is. As Minister De Block clearly stated in reply to my question at the most recent plenary session that the asylum centres will not go into lockdown because she believes that this would be discrimination, it does not appear that the situation will change rapidly. However, many mayors, even CD&V and sp.a mayors, who have an asylum centre in their congregation, are begging for such a lockdown. Can I therefore ask you in what way you would deal with the problem in concrete terms, since both the citizens who comply with the rules and the police will continue to be confronted with the offenders and there is a need for an effective and uniform approach here too? It goes without saying that a police fine or a gas fine makes no sense to that particular group of people. I hope you will give me a clearer answer than Mr De Block's evasive response, which merely pointed the finger at others. I also have some concerns about the apparent frivolity with which very far-reaching measures are being taken, which could or could compromise the privacy and freedom of citizens. My concern is therefore whether that would not be a slippery wreck, with us moving further and further towards a police state. Minister, is it your intention to reverse the restrictions on freedom and privacy of the people after the corona crisis? If so, can you guarantee this to the many citizens who are rightly concerned about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u23	We now come to the questions of the sp.a. Group. Mrs Jiroflée, you had tabled two questions. May I ask you to keep them brief?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u24	Mr President, Minister, we are now in the fourth week of the lockdown measures. 'Stay in your barn' sounds very simple, but it requires a lot of people to do a great deal of work. Social life is falling completely silent. Contact with family and friends can only be digital. Children cannot go to school and often sit with their parents, who also have to work at home at the same time. Leave the house only under strict conditions. In short, we are asking people for great sacrifices in the public interest, in the interests of everyone's health. The vast majority of people follow the rules and I would like to thank them for that. Experts say that we are beginning to see the effect of our efforts in the figures, and that is encouraging. However, this does not make the effort any easier, because if the figures start to fall soon, we will still have to comply with the measures if we do not want to bring about a further increase. Minister, the measures must also be monitored and penalties imposed. A lot of people keep to the agreements and make a lot of efforts. Just then they find it difficult to accept that others would not. In order to control the measures, the College of Attorneys-General had soon drawn up a circular, so that control and punishment would proceed in the same way throughout the country. The Crisis Centre also started with a very comprehensive FAQ. This is useful for citizens to know exactly what should or should not be done, but also, of course, for all local authorities and police areas. However, police forces asked for clearer rules and clear guidelines, so that all police zones would apply the rules in the same way. You have issued a circular letter on this, and I have a first set of questions. In fact, there are no directives in your circular letter, but I quote: 'I would like to draw particular attention to the mandatory nature of the directives of the task force'. Mr. Secretary, who's a member of this task force? In the seventh day I heard you list a number of people, but on Monday I read again that the composition of it will change. The question arises as to what mandate this task force has, how we can control it as a Parliament and to whom the task force should be accountable. If, as a minister, you wish to provide clear guidelines to the police, you can include them in the circular yourself and not merely delegate them to a task force. Why didn't you? Why didn't you write the guidelines in the circular yourself? That would have made it clear to everyone: to the citizens who have to follow the rules, to the policemen who have to apply the rules and to Parliament, to be able to control the rules. In any case, the circular did not provide clarity and clarity in all police areas. The circular letter is now more than a week old and we still see that police zones apply the rules differently. In one police zone you can sit on a bench, not in the other and in another ankle to stop a walk. In one police zone you can play basketball in one square, but not in the other. If your circular does not ensure a clear application of the rules in all police areas, how will you deal with it? The same problem arises with the gas fines. Each municipality now has to include corona violations in its GAS regulations, but there are no uniform directives on which infringements they should include in their GAS regulations. Will you impose uniform penalties on the municipalities by means of this letter of conversion, which offences they are allowed to contain through their GAS regulations? Otherwise, the same problem will arise as with the police areas that interpret and apply the rules differently, and each municipality will be subject to a different GAS regulation. Both police fines and gas fines are subject to an immediate collection. So people have to pay 250 euros right away, but what if there's a discussion? This debate cannot be ruled out if we see the differences between the municipalities and the police zones. Is there any appeal? What is the procedure for this? If you pay immediately, will you admit that you are guilty or can you appeal afterwards? Another source of uncertainty is that politicians and/or experts all too often contradict each other about certain rules. Of course, you are not always responsible for this, but this is something I deeply regret. If the policy-makers, and that is both ministers and the virologists today, are already giving a different interpretation of the rules, how do you want people to know what is allowed and what is not allowed? For example, there was the discussion about the resources that the police are allowed to use. There was talk of a curfew, of click lines, of searches without a warrant from the parquet, and so on. I want to oppose it. We shouldn't create it, we shouldn't create an atmosphere of mistrust, we shouldn't create a police state. It is therefore a good thing that you have spoken out against these measures. You are responsible for one last source of uncertainty. These are the constant changes to the rules. Friday a number of rules were changed and since then roommates should not stay at a distance of one and a half meters when they go out. Monday, less than three days later, there were adjustments and some people are allowed to sit on a bench or go to a park by car. I do not want to talk about the fact that there is going to be a change in a ministerial decision and another one in the FAQ. The constant change of the rules is really confusing for many people. Are the measures only taken through the FAQ sufficiently legally covered? Finally, I have a question about the police union strike announcement because of a shortage of mouth masks for the agents. We were told in the press that there was a social consultation on this matter on Friday, but that it did not produce any results. The strike notice has been suspended, but not revoked. The unions asked for recognition as a priority group in order to obtain more protection materials, such as mouth masks. That requirement would have been met, but it seems that the proposed risk analysis is not acceptable to determine when an agent should wear a mask. The three unions therefore continue to ask who is to wear the personal protection measures and when. What is the state of play in the negotiations with the trade unions? In the meantime, has an agreement been reached? If so, how many mouth masks will the police have at their disposal? What type of mouth mask are we talking about? What are the guidelines that determine when a cop has to wear a mouth mask?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u25	Minister, the crisis unfortunately brings with it another hidden enemy, that of intra-family violence. The experts at the Family Justice Center, the helpline 1712 and the Children's Abuse Center warn of an increase in intra-family violence in these times of corona. The people are close to each other's lips, which can increase any tension. In addition, people experiencing intra-family violence can now be more difficult to contact healthcare professionals via telephone or video call. Their contacts, which can normally cause a de-escalation, are now physically falling out. I am thinking of neighbors, friends and family. The figures in China also show that there are indeed reasons for concern. You even pointed out the danger to the UN Secretary. In the meantime I have also heard that in Flanders the number 1712 is being strengthened. Mr. Secretary, do you have any figures on intra-family violence in recent weeks? Is there an increase or not? What instructions have you given to your police in relation to this problem? Are you taking any additional measures besides the usual attention? If so, when? The Inter-Ministerial Conference on Women's Rights took place a first time. What has it done in concrete terms? In the same context, I would like to mention a second, if possible even more difficult and delicate, problem, namely the sexual abuse of children in the family context. In normal times, this is very difficult to detect. Now, in this crisis, children are home for several weeks. They are often alone with a parent or step parent. There is an increased risk of this in families where there are already problems or threats. There is also less social control from schools, leisure and assistance. At the European level, Europol's top lady, Catherine De Bolle, sees a clear upward trend of online sexual child abuse. Moreover, these findings were recently published by Europol. As difficult as it is to report, do you have any figures on this, Minister? Is there any extra monitoring of the family situations in which problems have already been encountered? How does that happen? Europol's report talks about an increasing trend of online sexual child abuse. What does this mean in the Belgian context? Have any new investigations been opened yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u26	Mr President, Mr Minister, I have already asked you about this issue a couple of days ago, a question to which you have answered in part. I also wrote to you, after seeing that the police were becoming more and more concerned. The fact that they filed a notice of strike, although, in my view, this is not the ideal solution, reflects a legitimate concern. I was able to hear and read many recommendations and opinions regarding surgical masks and FFP2 masks. Of course, in the face of the crisis, priority must be given to hospital health professionals as well as professionals who are on the front line. But when you think about it well, the police on mission are also on the front line. This is the case when they check drivers and pedestrians and check their identity documents. The proximity that this implies makes them vulnerable to coronavirus infection. I'm thinking about postillons. This is a fact that scientists confirm. Yesterday, I heard the inter-federal spokesman for the fight against the VOCID-19 say that the issue of the mandatory or in any case systematized wearing of the mask will be central at the time of deconfination. If this is the case, wearing the mask is already necessary for those who cannot confine themselves. In my opinion, the police are part of this section of the population because of the nature of the missions they perform. Over the past several weeks, the FPS Health has been talking about the allocation of one million surgical masks and 150,000 FFP2 masks to the federal police. It is imperative that the police be protected. Mr Minister, as you know, this role belongs to you, the aim being that they too can protect their loved ones, their families and their colleagues. Minister, what information have been relayed by the Integrated Police Task Force to the Federal Committee and the Crisis Centre in the context of containment? How do containment compliance measures impact the traditional and usual missions of our police officers? Furthermore, do you confirm a decrease in crime, as indicated by some information or, on the contrary, is there an increase in crime, in line with other information? How many masks, and which masks, have already been distributed within the federal police force? How much in the local police service? And what missions have these masks been assigned? What measures are planned to ensure that police officers in the field can be fitted with FFP2 masks? To date, how many police officers are unable to work because of the VOCID-19? How many federal police officers and local areas are currently unavailability? I had one final question about the notice of strike, but my colleague Mrs Kitir has already explained this subject. I won't rest her. I do not think I have exhausted a time limit of 10 minutes, Mr President. I know that my colleague Caroline Taquin, who follows the debates as a member of the Committee on the Interior, would also like to ask a question on the same subject. Mr President, do you give him the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u27	Mr Pivin, we must respect the time limit. If all groups ask questions that are not listed, the minister will be short of time to respond. It is up to the committee to choose, but I propose that you be very brief, Mrs Taquin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u28	Mr President, thank you. I'll be very brief. Minister, I have a specific question about police recruitment, which is very urgent at this time. I am basing myself on the experience I can see in my police area, in connection with the job vacancy declarations by the areas in the context of the 2020-A1 mobility. The next cycle of classical mobility leaves us with little hope of having candidates, given the experience of the last four cycles. But it appears that in some places, within the 2020-A1 cycle, there are more suitable candidates than open places: eight suitable for four vacant places. However, the federal police refused to make all eight candidates available, since only four jobs had been declared vacant by the police council. I imagine that this situation must occur in several areas, especially in this period of health crisis. Do you think it is possible that the federal police can authorize these commitments from more people than originally planned in the 2020-A1 cycle? I have no doubt for a moment that you are very attentive to it and that you would like to help all our local police areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u29	Mr. President, Minister, this crisis is putting a severe strain on the civilian security and integrated police services. On the front line, these State agents are doing their utmost to ensure the safety of all at notoriously difficult times. It would therefore be legitimate for the State to make every effort to ensure their health as well. Unfortunately, the situation on the ground is far from ideal. This justifies notice of strike by several trade union organizations, particularly within the police. Minister, what about the provision – reserved for all floors of the integrated police, firefighters and civil protection officers – of adequate equipment to preserve their health? What is being done to equip local police and relief areas in this area? What steps are being taken to ensure that officers are able to have VOCID-19 recognized as an occupational disease within the framework of their current missions, all of which will agree that it is essential to ensure the safety of all in the fight against the pandemic? In addition, you have just announced the creation of a task force, which will be responsible – you say – for harmonising the measures taken by the police to enforce the containment rules. What will be the means, missions and skills? Will this task force differ from the Federal Police Support Service, set up fifteen days ago and to which zone chiefs can request advice by video-conferencing? Have you developed a consistent vision of border control management? Indeed, as a mayor of a border commune, I can confirm that this is a very difficult problem to deal with at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u30	Thank you, Mr. Thiébaut. Mrs Zanchetta, I give you the floor, but please be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u31	Mr President, I should like to return to the issue of violence against women, which, as we know, did not arise with the crisis that we are going through. But all the actors on the ground ensure that this violence is exacerbated with the confinement that we are living today. The confinement imposed today on these women is more like co-habitation, sequestration, without possible escape. On Tuesday in Italy, a 27-year-old woman died, strangled by her companion. In our country, the line "Listen to domestic violence" has seen the number of calls double in recent days, with many families of victims worried. Wallonia, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, the Brussels Region and the COCOF have taken the initiative to set up a task force to ensure that reception places are sufficient and to meet the needs of emergency removal from the home. The federal government must also shoulder its responsibilities. Minister, what measures have you put on the table to help these victims of violence in practice? How can we facilitate the filing of complaints but also their judicial follow-up, when the police are mobilised to control containment measures and the justice system is slowing down? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u32	Minister, last week in plenary, you answered a question about the possibility of home visits as part of compliance with social distancing measures. You mentioned a circular from the College of Attorneys General, which you read quite exhaustively. However, the reading of this circular raises doubts as to whether such a violation of the protection of the private home can actually take place. In fact, we learn that "the police can enter a private place only in case of flagrante delicto – this is the application of the provisions of the Code of Criminal Investigation – with the explicit and prior consent of the King's prosecutor." I strongly stress this addition. It's a strong tag that considerably limits your words. Article 27 of the Law on the Police Function allows entry into a private place without prior authorization, and the circular makes explicit reference to it, but it can only be invoked if the reported danger " presents an extremely serious and imminent threat to the life or physical integrity of persons and cannot be avoided in any other way". However, the fact that there would be no other way than the forced entry into the home to put an end to the situation is a particularly broad reading that lawyers contest. Public health is an urgent issue here and no doubt people who would organize lockdown parties in a private home or elsewhere are demonstrating – and I strongly say so – a guilty irresponsibility. But public freedoms have their right and article 15 of the Constitution guarantees the inviolability of the home. Minister, can you confirm to me that the use of the home visit in the context of the application of the decree of 20 March 2020 can only be made with the explicit and prior authorization of the King's prosecutor? Do you confirm to me that other measures can put an end to the problematic situations of such a home visit, which remains, as a matter of principle, subject to the authorization of the prosecutor? The Government has also taken a royal decree of special powers, with a view to the effective and speedy implementation of the measures of social distancing and confinement currently in force, with a view to the possibility for municipalities to impose communal administrative sanctions on offenders. This royal decree provides that this regulation should be adopted by the so-called "SAC law" which regulates administrative sanctions, i.e. it must derive its legitimacy from a vote of the communal council. But you know that the communal councils are having difficulties. They are no longer necessarily in a position to meet. There is therefore some legal uncertainty that continues to hover over how to implement your order. If your order says that it is the communal council that must make the settlement, it does not provide for the possibility for the college to replace it. So we are in a dead end. Minister, do you confirm that the order in question does not provide for the possibility for the college to replace the communal council for the adoption of these regulations? Do you therefore plan a correction in this direction? If not, what would be the validity of regulations made by the only body able to meet, i.e. the college of mayors and aldermen? Moreover, it is also my responsibility that the royal decree in question does not provide for the possibility of resorting to a sanction other than a financial one. Is that the case? If so, why? Minister, thank you in advance for your answers. Mr President, we have thus respected our speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u33	Mr President, it is Mr François De Smet, my group leader, who will take the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u34	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the services of the House who manage to make our democracy work in these difficult times. I am thinking in particular of technical services and interpreters: thank you to them! Before I give the floor to my colleague, I will address the issue of the police officers, who are on the front line. Indeed, we ask them to enforce these – unprecedented – restrictions on public freedoms. As has been said, they sometimes get spitted on and are sometimes close to the offenders they have to intercept. Since the beginning of the crisis, they have felt relatively abandoned. As soon as the confinement rules came into force, they alerted about the impossibility of respecting social distancing in police vehicles and about the shortage of equipment – not only masks, but also hydro-alcoholic gel. There is also the question of shift. Patrols must be organized in such a way that police officers are not in contact with agents other than their close colleagues and so that a potential contaminated person does not spread the disease. To date, neither their hierarchy nor the cabinet have been able to respond to their complaints. After a meeting of the Risk Management Group held on March 31, it was even confirmed that police personnel were not recognized as an essential and priority category for wearing the famous FFP2 masks. For all these reasons, three unions filed a notice of strike for the period from April 12 to 19, in order to make their claims heard. Minister, my questions are simple. What protective measures are currently in place to protect police officers from contamination? Which ones are going to be considered? What kind of protection can they be afforded in the future? We know the FFP2 masks, but why not also use surgical masks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u35	Thank you, Mr. De Smet. Mrs. Rohonyi, please be brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u36	Minister, I would like to return to the problem of domestic violence in this period of confinement. As has already been said, the line "Listen to Conjugal Violence" has seen its calls double. This confirms the returns of field associations and lawyers for weeks. According to them, the consequence of this confinement is the emergence of violence in homes where they did not previously exist and an increase in violence in homes where they already existed. It is all the more worrying that it is more difficult in times of confinement to call for help and dial these phone numbers. On 3 April, the Working Group on Domestic Violence of the Interministerial Conference on Women's Law met. As a result, police services have been sensitized to the problem and have reportedly increased their vigilance. Victim care was seen as a basic function of the integrated police force. The police were made aware of this by a new operational directive adopted on 27 March. These initiatives reinforce those taken at the regional and local levels. I am thinking in particular of the initiative taken by the Brussels-North police zone to resume contact with all those who had already lodged a complaint in the last three months. This initiative is excellent, but it should not be forgotten that there were also victims who had not filed a complaint. More generally, however, associations have the impression that the police's priority remains the control of containment measures. This control is a vital necessity today, but it cannot be done at the expense of the victims of this confinement, in this case the victims of domestic violence. Associations call for concrete federal engagement, as has been done at the regional level. Minister, what steps are you going to take to make the fight against domestic violence a priority in our police areas? Do you support a generalization of the initiative taken by the Brussels-North police zone to all police areas in the country? It is known that the majority of femicide victims had previously filed complaints with the police for acts of violence, threats or harassment. Can the Federal Reserve, which is no longer mobilised for the supervision of demonstrations, support police areas with insufficient police capacity to properly support victims? Shouldn't specialized intervention patrols also be deployed to receive victims in police stations? Are specific measures taken with regard to children in the homes concerned? This is an issue that has been raised by my colleague Mrs Jiroflée, and rightly so. Have specific collaborations been established between police stations and victim-care associations? But also, maybe with some points of trade. I am thinking in this case of pharmacies. It is known that in the commune of Mons, a mechanism has been put in place to enable victims to file complaints or, in any case, to report incidents of violence in pharmacies. This was also introduced in France. There's really a lot of thinking about that. I just wanted to hear your opinion in this regard, especially since this is in line with what was asked yesterday by the European Parliament, which calls on the Member States to provide victims with flexible tools to report abuses. Finally, how is the control of decisions prohibiting the residence of perpetrators of violence ensured today? I believe that this control must be guaranteed in spite of confinement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u37	Minister, I would like to thank the services for making this virtual meeting possible. The spread of the corona virus has really put our country in a situation that no one could have imagined two months ago: empty streets, queues in the supermarkets. However, I believe that this crisis in the field of security is well managed. Several measures are absolutely necessary. No one has doubted that. We're all making sure that the virus can't be spread any further. I would therefore like to stress here that the various measures are generally well respected. I notice that every day in Bruges. I'd like to give everyone a feather for that. Although it is only partly within the remit of this committee, I would like to thank the aid workers, the police and the shopkeepers for all their work. Unfortunately, not everyone has complied with the directives. That is not easy, but we absolutely must not allow the rules to be broken. After all, the offenders not only put themselves at risk, but also other people. It is therefore a good thing that, among other things, the gas fines have entered into force. The amount of this, EUR 250 through an immediate collection, is not nothing, so we would like to call for a certain sense of responsibility. Flagrant violations, such as lockdown parties or major cooperative activities, need to be tackled hard. That's what a bazooka's supposed to be shooting at. However, we would like to ask for a degree of restraint in the case of doubts and uncertainties. There is always a need to consider whether or not the gas fine is necessary. For example, we think it is a good proposal to consider whether it is possible to monitor the number of gas fines effectively distributed every two or three days by the cities and municipalities. In this way, the Minister, and also Parliament, can follow up on the correct handling of the gas fines in each police area. However, we must not forget the police themselves in this whole story. Several colleagues have already mentioned this. The police ensure that the measures are complied with as closely as possible, day and night. In doing so, it exposes itself, but also others, to a possible contamination. They must therefore also have the necessary protective equipment at their disposal. Mr Minister, can you clarify to us once again what contamination material the police can have at their disposal today? How can this material be expanded? What's the phaser? We have followed the debate well and there is not much to ask about the major events. Our group therefore calls for a rapid clarification as to whether major events can continue next summer. As far as I am concerned, this can be clarified in stages, first until the end of June, then until the end of July and then until the end of August. However, the question of what will happen must be clarified as soon as possible. Are they all canceled? Will a certain number of visitors be placed on it? After all, the organisers of major events are asking for clarity. Is there going to be a cancellation or are the events allowed to continue? Clarity is the message here. Finally, our group absolutely does not want to be blind to the difficult home situations, which are made even more complicated by the compulsory quarantine. As we have heard from several Members, there is a fear that intra-family violence will increase because people spend too long together in sometimes small spaces. The phenomenon is already complex. However, the current situation makes it even more complex. Therefore, it should remain possible for any form of intra-family violence to be reported. These reports must also be taken seriously at all times. I have a few specific questions. Mr. Secretary, have you heard of an increase in intra-family violence? Is the police these days, despite its important task of monitoring the various measures under the coronavirus, extra vigilant in cases of intra-family violence? Is she still available? Are any complaints always strictly monitored? My other questions have already been put by other groups and I will not repeat them. In conclusion, I would like to express once again, like everyone else, the hope that we can quickly return to a normal, everyday situation. This requires a good exit strategy. I am glad that the government is making this clear. We are happy to follow that up from Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u38	Mr President, first of all, let me welcome the work done by all the actors who, despite the crisis, continue to take risks, mainly hospital staff, health care, but also all the workers – it would be too long to quote them, and I also take the opportunity to include the services of the House that allow us to hold a democratic debate today. As you know, I've been working for months, years, on the fight against domestic violence. Ten days ago, I put on the table a whole series of proposals and I am pleased to hear that there is a form of consensus on them at the political level. I have heard them in almost every political group. And I am not asking you the question, but I am asking you, Mr.Minister, strongly, as well as your colleagues – you were, I think, nine last Thursday around the table to deal with this issue. It is clear that a number of measures, awareness-raising measures, have been taken, but these measures are not strong enough. You should be able to impose – and you have the capacity to do so through a circular, among other things – on all police areas, to provide the victim support service in these police areas – a service that can work safely at the level of social distancing measures – and to remind the victims. But the sector also asks to call the authors to keep some form of pressure on them, within the last three months. Some municipalities are putting in place initiatives, like Spain and France, in particular that the pharmacy can be a reference point for redirecting immediately to the police areas – because we also know the workload of pharmacies during this particularly complicated period. Also develop a SMS system – it exists and you have worked on it, as have your predecessors – for an emergency call, especially for the deaf and the hard of hearing. This system currently exists. We know it's hard for some victims to call. There is a battery of measures that are neither expensive nor energetic. I take the example of my police zone: they were suggested to call the victims in the last three months. They responded that they were waiting for a decision at the federal level that was standardized for a good practice guide. So take a circular with the Minister of Justice, I beg you. This is a good practice developed by the Brussels area, it must be able to extend throughout the territory. All police areas must be able to recall, at least, all the victims of the last three months. These are some easily practicable measures. Clearly, I don't think it takes much time. I have been making this kind of proposal for ten days now, seeing the success of the Brussels area. I come to a second subject, that of civil protection and the support it can – or can not – give to the relief services, who must, quite rightly, decontaminate all the equipment (ambulances etc.).). It is the on-call staff who do it, but we know that they are also on the front line for these tasks. I wonder if civil protection can come in support. It is known that the reform, attributed to your predecessor, has significantly reduced the number of civilian defence personnel and reduced its capacity. Is it capable of providing support to relief services, even if it is in charge of other missions? It says it is available and the relief services are seeking, but that would be impossible due to lack of resources. I would like a clarification on this point. My colleagues have already dealt extensively with my third point: the issue of police personnel and the security equipment they need. You told the radio on Monday that thousands of masks were going to be distributed. I would like you to focus precisely on the question of who will be served, in what way and for what mission, so that we can have clarity and that it can possibly lift this notice of strike. Are you also, even if you have a lot of work to do, in contact with the unions regarding the management of this strike notice? Last point: at the staffing level, the judicial police say they are in short supply for judicial investigations. How do you try to best allocate the allocated staff, on the one hand, to confinement and compliance with the rules and, on the other hand, to the judicial investigations that must continue? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u39	Mr President, I shall be brief. I have three questions. My first question concerns the legal basis and fines. The ministerial decision you issued is the law. That's very strict. The FAQs are smoother. The fines issued by the police do have a legal basis, but the citizens cannot defend themselves against the relaxations in the FAQs. If we want to relax the rules, we must also amend the ministerial decision. This has happened, for example, for marriages, but not for essential movements and for outdoor activities. There are also many inaccuracies. For example, someone who sits on a bench for a walk to rest could get a report. That is not in your ministerial decision and cannot therefore be fined until the rules of social discrimination are violated. Can you state clearly what the difference is between the FAQ and the ministerial decision? A second question concerns the operation of our police services. Other colleagues have already mentioned this. The police services are doing a very good job on the ground and in difficult circumstances, difficult in terms of their own security, but also difficult because of the different directives they receive from different organisations. There is the ministerial decision, there is the FAQ, there is the letter from the College of Attorneys General, there are the instructions from the local prosecutors and there are the guidelines from the COVID-19 Task Force, which includes the CG and other police people. Those instructions will come directly to the Chiefs. It is not possible to communicate one-sidedly to every zone in this country in order to align them. I hear from several chiefs that they don't know what to do with it. Do you see an opportunity to create clarity over the next few weeks? As things stand today, one can get a fine in one zone for something and not in another. There must be clarity for our policemen, but also for the inhabitants. Finally, as far as the gas fines are concerned, that debate has actually arisen from nothing. Since this week there has been the royal decision on the GAS fines, which has yet to pass on to the municipal councils. I feel that not all police zones are asking for that. They today have the ministerial decision and can prepare their own minutes on the basis of that ministerial decision. Moreover, the Royal Decree on the Gas Fines does not apply to the 18-year-olds, while we see on the ground that these young people are sometimes more difficult to keep in line when it comes to the rules on social distancing. The royal decision on the GAS fines will certainly not help to sensitise that target group and, if necessary, to banish it. Mr Soors has already asked what will happen to the gas fines issued in Brussels between 21 March and 6 April. In our view, they have no legal basis and are illegal. How will that be dealt with? Colleagues, we must avoid getting into a police state where more than 90% of people follow all the rules strictly and properly, but ten percent of balored people do not follow the law. We therefore need to take measures to keep those 10% of people strictly in line and, if necessary, to fine them. However, the rest, the more than 90% that it does well, must continue to live in freedom, the freedom that the ministerial decision allows them. That is why we are calling for a parliamentary debate on the gas fines in Parliament. That has already been agreed in this committee, so I hope that we will soon be able to do so. Where did the question arise to change the law or the Royal Decree on Gas Fines? I haven't found that yet. Who was the asking party?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u40	We've taken ample time to get everyone to ask their questions. I would like to give the Minister the floor for a detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President and colleagues. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, many questions have been asked when they have not been introduced. But I don't have a problem answering it. So I will try to answer all the questions, including those that were not on the agenda. Mr Donné, as regards your comment on questions placed on the agenda of the Corona Committee, it is a decision of the Conference of Presidents, but I will not shirk my responsibilities and give some answers to the questions you have asked. This also applies to other matters relating to the committee led by Mr Verherstraeten. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I doubtless share with you the grief of the families and friends of the victims who died as a result of the coronavirus. I also want to encourage patients in our hospitals who often have to fight to survive. I am also proud of medical and nursing personnel, as well as those who are active in critical and support areas. They fight, they work hard to limit the consequences of the crisis and the impact on society. I would like to thank our security corps. Tens of thousands of people, police, men and women, firefighters, members of civil protection and relief services provide enormous efforts every day, 24 hours a day, and they deserve our sincere gratitude. Finally, thank you to all our citizens who show solidarity and who take responsibility under extremely difficult circumstances. The challenge is great, but perseverance remains the key word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as always, I will give you an answer to all the questions asked. It is true that I would ask you to provide me with the questions of detailed and numerical information in written form. I have taken note of it myself and will provide as many figures as possible to the chairman of the committee for distribution to all Members. The police and emergency services, on whose knowledge and expertise I must call upon to provide you with the information requested, must now understandably focus on their core activities in the field, now more than ever. I am committed to giving you an answer as soon as possible. I guarantee you an answer to that short-term and, in any event, today I will respect everyone's question as closely as possible. With regard to all your questions about the measures taken and compliance with them, I can tell you the following. Since Saturday 14 March, our country has been in the federal phase of the national emergency plan, which has initiated the joint approach to the biggest public health crisis of our generation. We moved to that phase in joint consultation. All measures are therefore the result of a consensus between the federal level, the Communities and the Regions, in close cooperation with our governors and our mayors. I repeat that the measures are taken by the National Security Council, in which the Prime Ministers of the Regions and Communities are represented. The measures strike a balance between individual freedoms and the general interest, namely the health of our people. Any action taken is a public health measure, which is translated into other measures, for example measures of maintaining, guaranteeing and, where necessary, restoring public order. The aim cannot be different and, of course, is to move as quickly as possible back to a normal situation, but unfortunately we have not yet reached that stage. The National Security Council therefore took a series of measures aimed at limiting contact between people who may potentially be carriers of the virus. I would like to stress once again and explicitly that all the measures taken are based on the medical advice of our experts and serve only one objective, namely to save human lives and, above all, to avoid endangering our hospital capacity. This is essential in all our approaches! That is to say, to guarantee hospital capacity in order to avoid arriving in situations such as we have known them and which we know today, for example, in Italy, France and Spain. The most concrete measures are those aimed at respecting the "social distance", including a ban on the assembly of more than two people. Most people apply these measures correctly and I would like to thank them sincerely. However, a part of the population has not understood that everyone must respect the social distancing measures in order to achieve the desired goal, which I have just stressed. Unfortunately, many interventions still have to be carried out following banned rallies, non-essential travel, the organization of private parties or the non-closure of horeca establishments. Not to mention the cowardly and despicable incidents in which police officers are being spit in their faces. I strongly condemn this behaviour. Anyone guilty of such acts shall be severely punished. Our police services in the field are essential to ensure compliance as much as possible. The capacity currently available is sufficient to carry out missions without having a major impact on other police tasks. [[.]] Moreover, in times of crisis, the police focus on the most essential missions. In order to standardize their actions on the ground, I wrote a circular on 30 March, with the aim of giving clear direction to our police services. However, it is always up to the police forces concerned to assess the possibility and need to take action against infringements of the corona measures. Where it is necessary, rules are refined and clarified. For this purpose there are the permanent consultation structures, including the Task Force GPI integrated police, police intégrée. This task force has grown from an initiative of the Federal Police Commissioner General at the beginning of March 2020. At the start of the federal phase on 14 March 2020, this task force was placed under the federal coordination committee COFECO, in which the Commissioner-General himself sits, in addition to mainly local police, various other services and ministerial cabinets. COFECO in turn implements the decisions of the National Security Council. The Task Force GPI includes the Police Commissioner General, the major Chiefs of Staff, such as those of Brussels and Antwerp, and the Representative of the Local Police Permanent Commission, the VCLP. The objective of this task force is to address the emergency situation in a common and uniform manner, and to make efficient use of the resources and resources in the field. Anyone who fails to comply with the measures will be prosecuted and fined. Immediate collections for infringements have been generalised for this purpose in consultation with my colleague, the Minister of Justice. Royal Decree No. 1 taken to this end, it has made it possible to introduce and impose an administrative fine of EUR 250 at municipal level for criminal offences against the Ministerial Decision. Of course, I think that local police forces should be reasonable. But the seriousness of the situation also requires careful monitoring that measures to prevent the spread of the virus are also respected by everyone. With regard to the idea of setting up a denunciation line, I would once again like to be extremely clear. I am firmly opposed to it, and it is not a national measure. The idea of living in a denunciation society does not interest me at all. People should not start spying on their neighbours or denouncing their fellow citizens. Our society must make it clear that we rely on solidarity, civic sense and individual responsibility. The deployment of drones, as in some coastal police areas, is intended to control measures in the broadest and strictest sense. This may shock some of us, but the deployment of drones by the police has been allowed by the legislation in force for some time now. As far as home visits are concerned, I have already answered the question last Thursday in plenary. In a recent circular, the College of Public Prosecutors explicitly refers to the possibility of an administrative inquiry in private places where the danger "is an extremely serious and imminent character that threatens the life or physical integrity of persons". It is therefore an opportune assessment on the ground by the local police chief, in consultation with the King's prosecutor, for example to be able to interrupt a lockdown party. As of April 6, 2020, the P Committee has not received any complaints regarding denunciation telephone lines, heat detector drones and home visits. As regards the control of border crossings, all non-essential movements from and to foreign countries shall be checked. This can be from completely physically blocking and closing a border crossing and systematic checking of each passage to patrolling in the vicinity of multiple border crossings when a very low traffic density is established. The police areas bordering a neighbouring country, together with the federal road police, have the task of controlling cross-border movements. For this, these police zones and the federal road police receive support from the federal reserve, the shipping police and the aviation police. On the motorways, customs services also offer highly valued assistance. The coherence of the border controls carried out shall be monitored by the management of the administrative police operations of the federal police. It also coordinates the necessary support and reinforcements for both local police and federal road police. This security of our borders is indeed one of the central tasks of the police forces and not of the army, as Mr Pas suggested. The fight against the spread of COVID-19 is a matter for everyone. As in other crisis situations, police forces can, if necessary, count on the help of their colleagues in the Defence Department. The cooperation between the two components of public power is not new and has always been efficient. However, a request for support to Defence must be based on real operational needs and take into account everyone's powers. In this context, we would point out that the members of the army do not have the necessary police powers to carry out the planned checks. Therefore, mixed shifts should be deployed, with additional steering problems. The National Security Council regularly assesses whether it is necessary for public security to maintain the presence of soldiers on the streets in the framework of Operation Vigilant Guardian. The current health crisis must not make us forget public safety requirements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the HyCap Solidarity Mechanism, the latter is reserved for reinforcements provided on an exceptional and temporary basis for the execution of large-scale administrative police missions. It is a support mechanism between police areas in the context of the management of events in the field of public order, when a police area is unable to guarantee its functions, for example, in the organization of events or when an area is unable to manage an event alone. Monitoring compliance with measures to combat coronavirus places the same burden on all police areas in our country. This requires a significant effort from all police areas without exception. The HyCap mechanism is therefore not activated in this context. Finally, I am also aware of the problems associated with the specific situation of the transmigrants during the current pandemic. Together with Minister De Block, I have committed myself to a working group set up with the services concerned to see how we can work together to provide an adequate response. Several Members have asked me about protection measures against the coronavirus and the police union strike announcement. We are currently making every effort to ensure that our police services carry out their work safely. They are on the first line in enforcing the measures in the field. Around 10,000 policemen are on the premises every day to carry out checks. I understand and understand the concerns of our policemen and the trade unions, especially after the unacceptable spitting incidents. That is why we immediately called a meeting with the trade unions to work together constructively to find a solution. In the meantime, the strike commitment has been averted. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is indeed a global shortage of protective masks. As long as we don't have enough, it makes sense to give them to medical staff and caregivers as a matter of priority. However, our police officers must also be protected. Minister De Backer, who is responsible for the procurement of protective masks, sets out a list of priority recipients. The police aren't part of it. That's why we recently shared our stock between the federal and local police. I have also taken the necessary steps to buy our own protective masks. In the meantime, we have planned short-term solutions, partly through our own production and smaller purchases to cover the first period. All leads are explored in order to protect our police officers to the best. Some members asked important questions about domestic or sexual violence during this period of exceptional measures. As a first step, I would like to stress that police assistance to victims is and will continue to be a basic function of integrated police. This is confirmed by the operational directive issued on 27 March by the Integrated Police Task Force VOCID-19. It stresses the need to pay attention to urgent and/or particularly serious forms of victimization and/or to complaints that pose a risk to the physical integrity of persons and minors in terms of domestic violence and other aspects. These complaints must be immediately admitted by front-line services and, if necessary, with the assistance of police assistance to victims – whose members are specially trained for this purpose. Particular attention is also being paid to the needs of certain population groups, in particular vulnerable and disadvantaged groups or persons, including young people and older people, citizens who do not have access to digital information and victims of intra-family violence and worrying educational situations. It stresses that attention should be paid to the alarm signals from juvenile judges, youth institutions, geriatric institutions and specialised fora. In addition to that directive, the Public Prosecutor has also written to all the reference magistrates for intra-family violence in order to urge the police services to continue to pay attention to the issue and to the proper implementation of the COL 4/2006 circular, including in the current context. The reference officers of the police were also informed of this. As regards the help line 1712 for any citizen who has questions about violence, abuse and child abuse, I can inform you that this is an initiative of the Flemish government. I cannot therefore give you any specific figures on this issue. With regard to the evolution of sexual violence on children, particularly during the corona crisis, I am unfortunately unable to give an answer. It is too early and too premature to draw any conclusions on the possible impact of the measures under COOVID-19 on reports of intra-family violence in general and intra-family violence against children in particular, on the basis of figures that are not yet available. Dear colleagues Matz and Rohonyi, as regards the possible generalisation of the initiative taken by the Brussels-North police zone, I can tell you that the policy of intervention and the way in which the facts are dealt with have not changed, except that – now more than ever – the prescribed physical security measures must be taken into account. In case of flagrante delicto, a police patrol is supposed to intervene on the spot and act in accordance with the circular of the College of Attorneys General established in this regard. The employees of the first line are also supposed to take on professional duties in the context of police assistance to victims. This can be done with the support of a specialist collaborator in police assistance to victims or a trained collaborator for this purpose. However, taking into account the prescribed health rules, this can be done by telephone or in the police office, by appointment and subject to compliance with physical preventive measures. Apart from cases where urgent intervention is necessary, the victim can always be heard at home by front-line services, possibly by means of a delayed intervention. This hearing may also take place at the police office. The project was launched, about four months ago, within the BruNo police zone, at a time when the health crisis in Belgium was not yet discussed. A new telephone contact is planned with persons who have been victims of domestic violence in the last three months. Re-contact and follow-up, whether on the basis of a judicial mission or not, are planned in any case. As for Mr Colebunders' question, the aviation police at Brussels Airport have both mouth masks, disposable gloves and disinfectant hand gel. The Federal Police have also published a series of prophylactic measures for its staff to help prevent any epidemic among staff and/or contamination. All this does not alter the fact that staff are asking questions about certain measures. The federal police keep them strictly informed on my proposal via newsletters, through continuously updated prevention sheets, via a question-and-answer section on the site WikiPol and very recently also via the installed contact center. The telephone numbers of the COVID-19 contact centre were already communicated to all staff on Monday morning 9 March 2020. We monitor the situation very closely and the necessary measures and recommendations are always taken in real time. Mr Metsu, the repatriation of Belgian nationals is the responsibility of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Air traffic police only carry out border controls on the basis of the conditions for entry into the territory and on the basis of whether or not those involved make an essential movement. No checks on the medical condition of passengers shall be carried out by the aviation police. However, I have called on the federal reserve to ensure that the social-distanting measures are respected throughout the Zaventem airport building, both when leaving the plane and when going to passport control, when going to the lobby after the baggage collection. Mr Houtmeyers, you proposed a Question about cybersecurity. The police are mainly responsible for the regional computer crime units, the RCCU, and the federal computer crime unit, the FCCU, for tackling cybercrime. Internet scams or Internet fraud, including spam and phishing, in fact refers to traditional scams using the Internet and should therefore be distinguished from computer-related crime. That therefore does not fall within the competence of the Court of Justice. The FCCU. This is addressed in regular police operations. according to the principles of the circular COL 2/2002 . During the pandemic crisis period, DJSOC was appointed, according to the principles of the circular COL 10/020, as a central point of contact for facts relating to fake webshops and fake news websites. The FCCU shall be informed of cyber attacks, either through the Cybersecurity Centre Belgium or CCB, or when the victim lodges a complaint with a police department. Until today, none of the facts have been reported. The Directorate-General, DJSOC, maintains regular contact with Europol, which provides Member States with a daily analysis of cyber threats. With regard to better information for businesses and appropriate initiatives to raise awareness of our society, I refer to the relevant authorities, in particular the CCB, Safeonweb and CERT. In addition, I can assure you that the federal police, through the media, radio and newspapers, in cooperation with the CCB, also undertake prevention tasks and provide the necessary advice to the potential victims. The federal police are actively participating in CCB prevention campaigns. Mr Cogolati, in order to guarantee the country's nuclear safety and security of supply, the Doel and Tihange nuclear power plants have been placed on the list of so-called critical infrastructures, whose activities must be maintained in all circumstances. In order to ensure that the nuclear safety and security of the sites continue to be ensured, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (FCAC) closely monitors the situation and regularly informs itself of the measures taken as part of the continuity plan that has been put in place by the operator. In the framework of this plan, a review of the critical functions is drawn up, with a view to ensuring the safe operation of the installations. Measures are also taken by the operator to perform these critical functions in the best possible way. The operator also follows recent federal directives to combat the spread of the virus. In addition to basic hygiene measures, social distancing and the intensification of telework, the operator has taken very concrete measures such as restrictions on access to the control room and the postponement of non-emergency and non-critical operations. The PSAN did not have to impose additional measures. In the Royal Order prescribing the safety of nuclear facilities, you will find several items that require the operator to determine what resources are required for these activities. It is also stated that sufficient resources must be available under both normal and exceptional conditions. The operator has sufficient staff to perform critical functions. If necessary, additional measures will be taken to ensure that critical activities are maintained. These include postponing or limiting non-critical operations, adapting the shift system, placing or moving people who normally perform a different function, but who nevertheless have training required for critical activities, etc. It is expected that, in exceptional circumstances such as a pandemic, the duration of a shift may be potentially extended to 12 hours. By following recent federal guidelines to combat the spread of the virus, the operator must, to the extent possible, promote home-based work for non-critical staff. It is clear that for a number of functions – unit control, regulatory testing and inspections, maintenance and repair – personnel must be present on site. The hygiene and social distancing measures advocated by the government are obviously applicable. Mr Colebunders, you had a question about the unfortunate death of a twelve-year-old girl and the possible role in the operation of emergency power stations. As you have no doubt heard, the P Committee was asked to carry out an investigation into the handling of the call received by the 101 East Flanders plant. I propose that the results of this investigation be awaited and that the necessary conclusions be drawn if necessary. If necessary, recommendations may be made, or guidelines may be issued. In general terms, however, I can say that it is the procedure that a call for medical assistance or fire department due at the 101 plant is transferred to the 112 emergency centre, which then takes over the call. That's a so-called warm transmission. Switching on hot means that the calltaker of the 101 line forwards and follows the call further. This naturally presupposes that the calltaker of the 101 line can derive from the call that it is a medical emergency. Furthermore, the operators of the 112 plant have clear guidelines on what to do when it comes to a call related to a COOVID contamination. These guidelines are determined by the Public Health Office. When a call is unintelligible and the call is interrupted, both in the event that the call came in through the 101-central and when it entered through the 911 emergency centre, the caller will always be tried to call back. If this is not possible, then the standard procedure that is requested from the police is to go through if the localization data is available, because not all mobile calls have such a localization function. An ambulance is not sent out by default, so that the medical equipment remains available as much as possible for confirmed medical emergencies. However, when the calltaker has elements that could suggest a medical situation, such as pain cries or certain breathing sounds, an ambulance is indeed sent on site if the localization data are known, You also had a question about the surveillance sector. In these special times, too, the private security sector plays a special role in the overall security policy through its specialization and experience. The current situation in Belgium does not alter the role of the private sector and the way in which its cooperation with police forces is conducted. From this point of view, the private and special security sector has been explicitly identified as a key sector with essential services and can continue to carry out its basic and necessary activities. During the current exceptional period, my administration consults structurally and on a daily basis with the main representatives of the private sector, in order to be able to act appropriately and quickly if necessary. For example, several measures have already been taken to ensure the continuity and operationality of the sector in the most safe conditions. In carrying out surveillance orders, surveillance undertakings shall strictly comply with the safety measures in force to limit the spread of the virus. At present, civil protection is invested in the fight against coronavirus by a fairly diverse panel of missions such as the transport of personal protective equipment (over 25 million masks transported) as well as other types of equipment, the production and transport of hand-disinfective gel for services identified as priority by the task force Shortages, logistical assistance for pre-sorting centres, assembly and organisation, logistical support to the police for border control, containers, lighting, the provision of drones, support for the treatment of deaths through the preparation and installation of temporary morgues in Saint-Trond and Herstal, support for patient transport and, finally, almost daily participation in multidisciplinary coordination through the presence of federal and provincial management meetings and various working groups. Civil protection has been providing hand-disinfectant gel relief services since 27 March. Since Monday, 30 March, production has been increased to approximately 10,000 litres per day. As the initiator of the project, the Brasschaat Civil Protection Operational Unit, in collaboration with a number of companies, oversees production. Then, together with the Crisnea Civil Protection Operational Unit, it is responsible for transportation to the various services. The initial objective of the approach was to provide a quantity of 120,000 litres to cope with the shortage of hand disinfectant gel and then to assess whether or not to launch a second production according to the needs identified on the ground. You are aware that the issue of disinfectant gel is also taken up in the task force Shortages chaired by Minister De Backer. The task force's mission is, among other things, to monitor and manage strategic deployment stocks for the supply of medical devices and medicines. It brings together the different offers of producers and the demands of organisations in relation to their needs for VOCID-19 control devices – protective equipment, masks, gloves, screening tests, disinfectant gels. It subsequently identifies the operations that are in priority need. Therefore, the production of the civil protection disinfectant gel is completely complementary to this. At present, civil protection is responsible for transporting the hand-disinfectant gel to the services that fall within my jurisdiction: police areas, emergency zones, 112, CICs and others. Part of this production has been handed over to the Task Force Shortages, which will determine the services to be supplied as a matter of priority and will regulate the mode of transport. Finally, the production phase of the 120,000 litres is expected to end in the coming days. It is up to the task force to decide whether a second phase of production is necessary, given that there are currently other producers on the market. There were also questions about the Task Force Shortages, questions about shortages of mouth masks, to aprons, to handles, to testing. I've already given you some answers to that. It is true that the government has given the relevant powers to Mr De Backer. I would like to mention a number of other matters relating to my competence. In the beginning, from the moment the government was able to take action, I have claimed 187,500 tests and hectolitres of reagents to make new tests. Civil protection's working handballs. I asked for and got permission to the nuclear cabinet because we were not on a priority list for reasons that are known to purchase mouth masks for our police services. Meanwhile, I can say that there are about 120,000 plus 50,000 of these masks available. Afterwards, there will be a large purchase that is already under way, worth EUR 3.9 million. These cases have been carried out in close consultation with the police union and have also ensured that the legitimate questions relating to the protection and security of police personnel have not only been followed by me but have also led to a practical solution. A number of colleagues have asked questions about the application of the gas fines. That is not on the agenda for this sitting. This is an item on the agenda for the corona committee. I refer to Parliament's decision in the context of the particular legal framework in which we work. I'll give you some information. I will give you the figures quickly, Mr President. A number of colleagues have asked questions about the ministerial decision. The ministerial decision must always be taken in a very short time following the decision of the National Security Council on the basis of the opinions of the CELEVAL, whose operation you know. Adjustments should be made before the expiry of the measures currently in force. So, we were on a expiry date that was set at midnight April 4th on April 5th. In view of the fact that, even after the decision of the National Security Council, several consultations were held and are still taking place, and given the time needed to incorporate new measures into a bilingual and legally correct text, it was and is not always possible to seek advice from the Council of State's legislative section in the more recent ministerial decisions. The deadline is too short. The Minister of the Interior is, on the basis of Article 11 of the Police Office Act and on the basis of Article 82 of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007, the competent police authority to take the necessary police measures. That's the so-called Civil Security Act. The relevant ministerial decisions are, of course, always discussed in the Council of Ministers. The FAQ document aims to inform the public about the measures taken and their consequences on their health and their daily lives. In this way, constructive cooperation can be achieved with the people whose majority, moreover, is very willing to comply with these measures. The FAQ document is not intended to constitute an additional means of imposing sanctions. The minority who nevertheless ignores the measures will only be punished on a legal basis, in particular on the basis of the ministerial decision in force at the time. Finally, with regard to Ms Matz's and other colleagues' questions on the Directorate-General of the Judicial Police, the theoretical substantive tables provide for an operational staff of 4,268 investigators and 549 members of the administrative and logistical framework. In fact, because the organic tables are not completed, the DGJ has 3,562 investigators and 608 members of the administrative and logistical framework. Of this actual number, 237 are ill, or 6.6 per cent. This means that more than 93 per cent of the workforce is available. In the specific circumstances, measures to maximize social distancing are applicable. They are also in the judicial police. This means that office work, field work and telework are combined, and these three opportunities are considered if the possibility arises. The staffing is of course available for the execution of missions, including judicial investigations. A business continuity plan was developed by the Directorate-General of the Judicial Police. It is declined in each deconcentrated direction. To date, all the features of the specialized judicial police continue to be executed throughout the country. In a very practical way, the Director-General of the Judicial Police and the 14 judicial directors of the country are in frequent contact with the judicial authorities, the College of Attorneys-General, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, the King's Prosecutor's Office and other bodies, to grant the work of the judicial police and that of the judiciary, a fortiori in the current context in which everyone works. Let me turn to your last question on civil protection. Civilian Protection has so far responded to all official requests addressed to it and ensures maximum response to all requests that could be made, such as disinfection of pre-triage centres and support for rest and nursing homes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have given an overall answer to all the questions. I do not think any of the questioners have had an answer to his questions. I've had to leave out the details sometimes, but I commit myself as always to deliver them to you. I can do that in writing, through the committee secretariat. If I were asked a question about this, I would have the opportunity to give you a formalised answer. I can and must decide. With the measures taken, the National Security Council has one goal in mind: to save lives on the basis of medical advice from our experts. We're facing a tough challenge, but we can keep this up. It is no different in the exercise of my powers to ensure, together with Parliament, that we can control and control the matter. So much for my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic140x.u43	Colleagues, I'd like to take up the Minister's offer. If members of the committee have additional questions, they may submit them to the committee secretariat. The Minister has committed himself to answering them as a matter of urgency. This also applies to today's additional answers to questions about figures and certain technical details. I appreciate that everyone has kept their very busy agenda clear for this very interesting exchange of views on the corona crisis.
