ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u1	Minister, the conclusions of the Advocate General at the European Court of Justice state that the general retention obligation for data by telecom operators would not be legal and that the regime should be limited. Following a judgment of the Constitutional Court in 2015, data retention was already strengthened and now there is a chance that it will be further restricted on the basis of those conclusions. It is important that people's privacy is protected, but keeping data is not necessarily a violation of privacy, I believe. As far as we are concerned, it is essential to regulate access to these data very well. At all costs, it must be avoided that fewer data would be available, since the work of investigators, for example, would make it virtually impossible, which would in turn result in more cases remaining unsolved and criminals remaining at large. An important judgment was delivered last week in connection with the reading of mobile phones and the release of their codes, but here again there is another threat to the work of the investigators. Hence my questions, Minister. Are you aware of the Advocate General's Opinion on data retention and its full content? If so, how does this possibly affect Belgian legislation? Do you anticipate a ruling that might be detrimental to the proper functioning of justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u2	Ms De Wit, the Advocate General has simultaneously issued several opinions on data retention, including one on a Belgian case. It is the Belgian Constitutional Court, which, on a proposal from the government, asked the question in an action against the annulment of Belgian legislation. The legislation is the result of a draft that I submitted after a first annihilation. It is clear, therefore, that we are following the matter very closely. The opinion of the Advocate General is always an important step, but I think it is premature to draw conclusions. I remain convinced that the preservation of communication data for a minimum period is absolutely essential in the fight against crime and threats to national security. The investigating judge, the prosecutor, the Belgian police, and also an association like Child Focus, clearly argue in this direction. All the arguments were put on the table, including during the oral debate before the Court of Justice. We must now wait for the judgment that should be delivered in a few weeks' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u3	Like you, I'm looking forward to seeing what will end up in the arrest. But if that is indeed negative and there will be a restriction, we will have to be very quick to fix the law. We see technology moving forward. Criminals have more and more resources and opportunities. Certain rules, which are important in themselves, are increasingly hindering the work of researchers. That's not supposed to happen, is it? It would be a pity if we took one step forward, like last week's groundbreaking judgment on the codes of mobile phones or smartphones, we should take a step backwards here. I think we should avoid that. I look forward with you to the judgment and I hope that, if necessary, we will be able to restore the text very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u4	Minister, in De Tijd and in other newspapers, we could not, for the first time, read that the collection of fines and other capital punishments continues to be completely flawed, despite the additional possibilities given in 2014 in the form of the criminal investigation. The examination of a magistrate of the General Court of Ghent shows once again that the government is failing to pay significant sums due to the lack of recovery of capital punishment. For example, there appears to be a practice in which recipients of finance claim wrong amounts, forgetting to multiply the fine by the number of employees or to carry out a sentence with delay in full, while only half of it should be done. The main reason for this would be unclear judgments, which do not include a precise calculation of all effective capital punishments, but there would also be a lack of staff in the Treasury. Not only is there not enough staff at Finance, but there are too few people available for the intensive criminal investigation. Computerization is also a bottleneck here. Since the different services work with different applications, each service separately needs to provide the same info manually, and that in 2020. Here, too, MACH is colliding with her limits. Even forwarding the verdicts wouldn't get automated. At the correctional court, this even happens with paper. Those aren't my words, as the magistrate's investigation shows. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, has the number of outstanding fines dropped or increased in recent years? If you have any figures, I'd be happy to have them. Secondly, is an evaluation being carried out with a view to correcting the criminal investigation in order to make it more efficient? Thirdly, is there any prospect of improving the coordination of the various computer systems? Fourthly, have you discussed this with the Minister of Finance? Finally, what are your views on the idea of a multidisciplinary central body dealing solely with the recovery of fines?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u5	Mrs De Wit, like you, I am concerned about the better collection of fines and other capital punishments. Major steps forward have been taken in recent years. The gains from the better collection are spectacular. We have even won an important prize for the digitisation project. Occasionally there is also something good, because the only thing that is ever said about Justice is not digitization and MACH is again falling short. I'm just getting used to the whirlwinds, but, I'm telling you, we did win a prize. The automation and digitisation of these work processes allow capacity to be released for more substantive work as a major administrative burden is removed, but many other aspects of the problem have been and are being addressed further. As you know, the collection is for the time being a responsibility of the FPS Finance. So I do not go into all your concerns about this, but if necessary leave it to the Minister of Finance to reply. As regards your first question on figures, I would like to refer to the Court of Auditors' report of 25 October 2019. The report shows that between 2014 and 2018 both the total and the outstanding amount to be recovered increased from 249,329,897 euros to 629,073,910 euros and from 109,707,617 euros to 264,687,047 euros respectively. Secondly, an evaluation of the criminal investigation is being carried out. This is done by the Advisory and Investigation Committee of the Supreme Court of Justice. On this basis, the next Justice Minister will be able to amend and supplement the Action Plan. Thirdly, I would like to point out that the entire chain of penalties, with the exception of the courts of appeal, has been operating on a single system, in particular MACH, for one year. In addition, the FPS Finance and the FPS Justice are working to integrate their two computer systems. A great deal of progress has been made in recent years. The two systems already exchange a great deal of data, for example in the context of the collection of registry fees. This constructive cooperation between the two departments is continuing. The consultative body for the coordination of the recovery of non-fiscal debts in criminal matters will meet this month to discuss the Court's report and to look at a new additional action plan, which shows once again that efforts are continuing. Fourthly, there is very regular consultation at the level of the technical working groups and our cabinets. Fifthly, I am convinced that we need to take further steps, but it is a policy choice that the next government deserves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Let me start with the final point, the policy choice. I believe that this should be continued in 2020, but good and workable choices need to be made. The computerization and digitization are a historical fact, I will not claim that something is your fault. Steps were taken, but we are still a long way from where we should be. I will never forget last year's debate in Ghent, where there was a magistrate standing straight and asking, "What have we done to have to work with that system?" I'm just saying, it's not my words, but I won't forget this soon. I have already seen a number of applications in large fraud cases, with different claims, different suspects and different charges. It is not all that easy to give this in, and I wonder if there are better systems available. I note that further work is being carried out and that there will be policy choices. I certainly hope that the right choices will be made. In order to prevent impunity, this is done not only by sending people to prison when necessary, but also by collecting fines for property penalties. In certain cases, people who only get fines must be punished where it hurts. If there is no recovery then we will get another story of impunity. That's a jaw blow for all the people who got the conviction, from which I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u7	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Özen's 3087 was withdrawn. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Özen's 3091 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u8	Mr Minister, in the debate on racism, the possibility of being able to file a complaint online, via his electronic identity card, was highlighted in order to combat harassment, racism, xenophobia and other forms of discrimination, especially on the Internet. In this way, it would be easier and faster to file a complaint. On the other hand, people who feel a degree of shame to go and share their experiences are likely to take this path more often. If this possibility were to prove feasible, it would, in my view, be a real added value for our judicial system. Minister, can you tell us more about the online complaints project? Will this offer be open to any form of complaint or only to offences such as racism or online harassment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u9	Ms Jadin, work has been done to improve the registration and collection of data on hate crimes. This work concluded that it was useful to develop tools to report a hate crime via the Internet. The project that is being prepared is based on the Police-on-web tool, an online tool that already facilitates certain steps with the police. The aim is to enable citizens and victims in particular to report acts of discrimination and racism via the Internet. The exact scope of application still needs to be clarified, but the initiative must help build trust among victims and witnesses and should encourage them to report such events more quickly to the police and to the justice system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u10	Minister, thank you. I think it's a very good thing, especially for harassment. It is known how frequent they are on the Internet and how much discrimination or hatred, whether racial or otherwise, are hidden on the Internet. Many barriers thus fall off new technologies with many advantages but also disadvantages. It is therefore important that the judicial system, our federal police and all authorities be able to mobilize to meet the challenges that these evil sides of the new technologies also represent. It's also part of everything that's hat speeches, etc. I think this is a first step. I can only encourage you to continue in this direction. You can count on all my cooperation and that of my group to move the situation in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u11	Madam President, Minister, in Belgium, the prisoners who work do so for three different actors: for the prison itself, for the Prison Labour Board, or for outside companies. To date, some 1,700 inmates have been working on behalf of private companies, mainly in the textile industry, for derisory amounts. This is a low-skilled job which rarely allows the prisoner to gain an experience which he will be able to value once he has been released from prison. This prison work business is the subject of a long-standing legal battle between the Prison Labour Board, the Belgian State and Prisonworks. Indeed, since 2012, Prisonworks has pursued the Belgian state for unfair competition. The company denounces the fact that the Prison Labour Board itself has turned away companies when a non-competition commitment had been concluded. In addition, Prisonworks denounces the commercial units created by the Régie offering even more competitive rates. Recently, the Court of Cassation ruled in favour of Prisonworks, rejecting the State's appeal. That is what justifies my question. Minister, I have several questions at the reading of this judgment. The first is probably the most fundamental. What conclusions do you draw from this judgment? What impact will this have on future prison labour market practices? Does the judgment bind the Régie to this society, which Régie would be bound feet and fists? Or will the administration retain room for independent prospecting and contact with either company? I still have a subsidiary question, but not so much. What are the terms of the contract between the Belgian prison administration and Prisonworks? What are the consequences of this judgment on the continuation of this contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u12	Madam President, Mrs Khattabi, the agreement between the Prison Labour Board and Prisonworks, formerly known as Comptoir de Russie, provided that the Board could not contact the clients and prospects of Prisonworks. In 2012, Prisonworks actually brought an action for violation by the Régie of the non-competition clause. The Court of Appeal ruled in favour of Prisonworks. The appeal in cassation of the Régie was dismissed in December 2019. The Régie's conviction is to pay damages as a result of the violation, for a period from 2011 to 2013. The damages provisionally awarded amount to EUR 25 000. An expert was appointed to determine the final amount of damage sustained. Since 2018, there have been no contractual commitments between the Régie and Prisonworks. The Régie can therefore approach, explore and contract independently.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answer. I did not have the information that, since 2018, there was no longer a contractual link. I saw in this judgment an opportunity to evaluate and review our entire prison work policy, not only in terms of economic issues, but also – and this is the subject of my second question – of the issue of re-integration of the inmate. We could make prison work a tool, as such, of a proactive policy in terms of reintegration. I will come back with various questions about the operation since 2018 and the policies that the Régie has adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u14	Minister, this timely judgment has led me to reflect on and question you about a more global but fundamental and too often forgotten aspect, in my view, alongside the economic stakes, of prison work. It is understood that prison work is a means of development – as far as we can say in prison – and allows the prisoner to reintegrate more easily into society. This assertion implies a minimum of analysis of the work offer and the profiles of the inmates. It must be noted, however, that the choice of work is too little based on the professional skills or choices of the prisoners, but rather on the needs of the enterprises and the means available to the prison. The following questions therefore arise, Minister. How many prisoners currently perform professional duties in detention and how many of them work for Cellmade? What are the criteria for assigning a job? Currently, prisons provide manual jobs for inmates (reliance, clothing, printing, etc.).). Don't you think, minister, from the perspective of what I referred to in my reply to the previous question, that prison work, as a real tool of a reintegration policy, must offer a more diverse range of jobs, taking into account current labour market trends? What is the strategy of the Prison Labour Board and Cellmade in this respect? European prison rules provide that "health and safety measures must ensure effective protection of prisoners and must not be less stringent than those enjoyed by workers outside prison". Minister, who ensures that the minimum health and safety rules are respected in our prisons? How often do these checks take place? Are prisoners represented in each institution by a "trade union delegation"? According to European prison rules, "inmates carrying out work must, as far as possible, be affiliated with the national social security system". What is your position on the matter? Finally, Mr Minister, do you have any statistics to say that prison work in Belgium makes it easier to reintegrate into society?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u15	Khattabi, currently, about 4,500 prisoners are working or undergoing skills training in prisons, according to the following breakdown: 2,000 prisoners work for the Cellmade Prison Labour Board, 1,700 for private companies and about 300 prisoners in the prison production workshops of their own establishments such as carpentry, printing and bakery. Five hundred prisoners receive vocational training, 2,000 prisoners perform domestic tasks such as cleaning, cooking, maintenance, etc. Local directorates determine the criteria for the allocation of work. Cellmade strives to offer a wider range of training and jobs. As far as the work is concerned, Cellmade has in recent years developed scanning activities and is currently designing telephone exchange activities. The internal service for prevention and protection at work systematically gives an opinion before a new job is proposed or a new client entrepreneur can start an activity. No work can be proposed before the agreement of the environmental coordinator. In addition, the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation carries out checks. The detainees are not represented by a trade union delegation. However, there is a consultative body in each institution where inmates can discuss with staff topics relating to work and training. With regard to the possibility for working prisoners to be affiliated with the national social security system, a detailed study of the consequences of such a decision would first be necessary before a response could be provided. We do not have statistics in Belgium to answer your question as to whether prison work leads to easier reintegration into society. However, it is certain that work in detention is one of the essential components of reintegration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answer. I can join you when you say that work is one of the essential elements of a reintegration journey. As we know, the prison is not intended to provide companies with cheap labour. Nor does it aim to unfairly compete with those who comply with the laws in force. As I said on the occasion of my previous question, there is a need to reflect – and I will return to this point – on a prison work policy with the primary objective of re-integration of prisoners. For example, in Italy, labour law applies even behind bars and prisoners enjoy the same level of pay and social guarantees as others. You mentioned an analysis to measure the impact of this application in our prisons. I will not fail to ask you again in order to obtain clarification on this subject and to see how we can move forward with regard to the rights of prisoners, as long as they work in prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u17	Minister, this January 29, at a meeting with the Senior Operational Plans Consultation Committee, you made a final proposal. This proposal does not seem to me to comply with the law of 23 March 2019 for various reasons. Indeed, this proposal is not formulated as prison by prison, it is global figures. In addition, this proposal is too flexible and leaves an arbitrariness and unpredictability in the implementation of the plans. Finally, this proposal distinguishes between large prisons (more than 200 prisoners) and small prisons (less than 200 prisoners) taking into account the theoretical and non-real capacity of prisons with overcrowding. In other words, if, due to overcrowding, a small prison with an official capacity of 150 inmates actually has 250, it will still be subject to the so-called minimum service plan of small prison. In all legitimacy, the trade unions proposed to restart a 30-day consultation period in order to be able to work on prison-by-prison plans. You refused. In the face of this refusal and despite your threats of sanctions, the workers confirmed the continuation of the actions originally planned, including general strikes every Friday. Also on 29 January, in a topical debate in the Justice Committee, you said: "It is much easier to have private prisons, if we continue to do so". Your comments say a great deal and are unacceptable under Article 24bis of the Constitution, which guarantees workers the right to information, consultation and collective bargaining. Minister, are you going to give up making excessive use of your authority to force prison workers to apply minimum service plans that are totally contrary to their interests? Will you finally decide to return to a real consultation, establishment by institution, in order to ensure the sufficient security of agents and detainees while allowing the right to strike?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u18	Two weeks ago, Minister, we held a small topical debate on the negotiations you had with the trade unions. You made a final proposal after consulting them in the morning. I asked you about the state of affairs. I understand from your answer to the previous question that there has been a counter-proposal there, to return to negotiations by prison, as you had done in recent years. I understand, however, that the previous negotiations have not shown up. I am therefore very curious to hear your answer to my questions. What is the state of play now? Where are we now? What's going on? Will you resume the negotiations, yes or no? Or will you simply try to apply your scheme, as laid down in the law? A law must still be observed once it has been approved here. Will you agree to the request to renegotiate per prison? If you did that, I hope that people will show up this time. Otherwise, it's gonna be hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u19	Mr Hedebouw, first of all, I have not threatened anyone. Everyone knows that I am a faithful believer in the status of our prison staff and that I have contributed to the maximum of my possibilities. Let me then point out that in each prison an operational plan has been submitted for consultation. My last proposal is formulated in a comprehensive manner and must be calculated as prison per prison. I am confident that heads of institutions will use the 20% or 25% range depending on their institution's capacity. These plans have been drawn up on the basis of uniform and logical principles, which take into account the particularities of each prison. They were then submitted to the basic consultation committees. I cannot be held responsible for the fact that the unions did not consider this method to be a genuine consultation. I have always respected the rules of social consultation in the Higher Committee for Consultation. On the other hand, I believe that it is not the practice of heads of institutions to violate these rules. A minimum service is not a abolition of the right to strike. It only imposes restrictions on this right, within the limits set by the International Labour Office and evaluated by the Council of State in its opinion on the relevant law of 2019. I would also like to inform you that the Royal Decree of 4 August 2019 and the plans per prison based on this Royal Decree must be accompanied by the provisions of the Royal Decree of 19 November 2019 laying down the rules for consultation in the event of a social conflict. The aim of these rules is precisely to avoid strikes by encouraging and ensuring maximum cooperation in the event of conflict, thereby resolving it. The deadline for the unions to react – 15 working days from January 29 – expires on February 19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answer, which obviously does not suit me. You won't be surprised. I have a whole other return from the field and people who work in prisons. As a reminder, the goal is that 70% of staff work. It's huge, Minister. You say the right to strike remains...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u21	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u22	Exactly. On the other hand, do you not feel that, in this negotiation, you go beyond the mandate you have in your day-to-day business? We see there's a problem, and you want to be strong. With what mandate does a government that no longer has a majority decide to go into force with these measures? I think it would be better to stop this forcing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u23	Firstly, Mr Hedebouw, the law was passed last year, democratically, by a majority. A government, whether or not in current cases, shall be deemed to implement the laws adopted. Secondly, Minister, I understand that there is still time to respond formally and that we have just received informal information. You may know what the answer will be. However, I can only make one appeal. I understood last time that you, prison-by-prison, tried to negotiate and that at those meetings all the trade unions were never present, which made the negotiations very difficult. If you don't come to the table, you can't. If you were to respond to the offer to recreate the exercise, I really hope that the trade unions will be present, because otherwise there will be no talk. As I said last week, I understand everyone in the file, inmates, guards and the police, but an arrangement has been devised and approved. The Council of State has said that this arrangement does not restrict the right to strike. We must therefore implement it, preferably negotiated, but if it cannot be negotiated, it will have to be done in a different way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u24	Minister, on February 5, 2020, you were finally bringing to our attention a statistical overview of the extended criminal transactions proposed by the prosecution offices in 2018. We have discovered many interesting figures. In particular, 117 extended transactions were paid in the amount of €8,487,652, an average payment of €72,544.03 per defendant. These figures are clearly incomplete when they indicate what was obtained but not what was originally requested. However, these transactions were concluded after the initiation of the public action and are therefore verifiable. Furthermore, there is no indication of what types of alleged offences were involved. However, it is clear from the reading of these amounts that only powerful and wealthy defendants have been able to afford to stalemate a public trial and buy a blank criminal record. You will agree, minister, that 72,000 euros is not nothing, it doesn't pay off like that. I couldn't do it anyway. Add to this the last statement of the prosecutor of the King of Antwerp in the language of Vondel: "ik wil zoveel mogelijk buiten de rechtbank regelen". Ghent and Antwerp alone made use of Article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation on the extension of public proceedings, which averaged the payment of a sum of money in 2018. In view of the above, class justice seems to us to be generalizing. More than ever, we feel that there is no equal justice for every citizen. For these reasons, Minister, I would like you to answer the following questions. Is it normal for a King's prosecutor to declare that he wants to settle white-collar crime amicably as much as possible? Have you given any instructions to this effect? If not, how do you justify such statements? What were the amounts claimed ab initio for the 117 extended transactions that were settled independently of the amounts paid to the tax authorities, the ONSS or other parties that had suffered injury? What are the offences primarily affected by these transactions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u25	Mr Hedebouw, thank you for using the language of Vondel. I'll answer in Voltaire's. The Joint Directive of the College of Attorneys General and the Minister of Justice COL8/2018 outlines the legal framework and provides guidance on how to proceed. In addition, Annex 3 provides an overview of the criminal offences that may in principle be the subject of an expanded criminal transaction. Economic and financial crimes are not excluded. However, each offence must be assessed by the magistrate, taking into account the elements mentioned in the directive, such as the seriousness of the facts, the total absence of confessions, the existence of serious challenges on the part of the person concerned, the relevant background or the suspect's uncertain financial situation. Since the 2018 legislative amendment, the judge also assesses the transaction according to its proportionality to the facts committed. The King's prosecutor can fine-tune criminal policy for his district and within the framework of the common directive. The statistics provided cannot give details of the transactions initially requested. Furthermore, this information relates to the negotiations between the prosecutor and the suspect. The negotiation file has been removed from the criminal record. The figures available do not allow for a breakdown according to the nature of the infringement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u26	Minister, I have heard your law course. It is not that it was not interesting, but I would still like a political stance on the figures you gave us. With an average of 70,000 euros per transaction, it is still clear that not everyone is able to pay such an amount. That is exactly what is being denounced in this two-speed justice system: I have 70,000 euros, I am arguing with the justice system to stifle the case; I do not have the money, justice is taking its course. This is a two-speed justice! Don't the numbers you might not even know yourself ask yourself? If you have it at your disposal, you will not say that there is a problem, that there is something going on there. If an attorney in Antwerp says that as much as possible is best done outside the courts, then you, as the social minister of justice, should acknowledge the problem and seek an agreement to call the friendly settlement back into question. Then perhaps we will also have our support for abolishing that law, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u27	Mr President, on 6 February, we learned of the acquittal of a man accused of having raped students of the Academy of Fine Arts in Liège. This story caused a great concussion in Liège, both on social networks and in the discussions within the population, when this man was already known for sexual harassment. At issue is a lack of knowledge by the correctional court of the so-called "consideration" mechanism. Sideration is common in cases of aggression and is defined as a state of emotional stupor in which the subject is frozen, inert, to the point that emotions seem practically absent. The court therefore finds consent. Both victims expressed their sense of being abandoned by the courts. This recent ruling confirms the statistics according to which, of the few 12% of women who dare to file complaints, only 1 in 100 rapes is convicted. In the report of the Supreme Council of Justice, already dated 25 April 2019, on a better approach to sexual violence, carried out following a conviction of the Belgian State by the European Court of Human Rights on 2 May 2017, the emphasis is on the importance of training judges. Last Thursday, the Van Espen family also shared nine urgent priorities by means of an open letter to our attention. It reads as follows: "Provide in-depth training in the field of sexual violence for police forces, prosecutors, magistrates in office, as well as legal assistants." Last week, you confirmed in the Justice Commission that training exists, but that, like the existing training for the police force, it is not mandatory. This is in the order of one day for the base module. You are currently in the midst of discussions with the federated entities on the development of an action plan against sexual violence. My question is this: in this plan, Minister, are you committed to ensuring that thorough training of the various judicial actors is made compulsory and fully effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u28	Thank you Mr. Hedebouw, Madam Chair, I have been developing an action plan against sexual violence for some time now. The federated entities are active participants in the plan. Indeed, one of the main points is the obligation to undergo in-depth training for the various judicial actors who have to deal with cases of sexual violence. These include judges, judicial interns and judicial staff. Training for magistrates, interns and judicial personnel is provided by the Judicial Training Institute. A scientific committee within the Institute is responsible for making recommendations and opinions on training programmes. For already appointed magistrates, compulsory training currently exists only for those who wish to have a specific mandate – for example, investigating judge, family judge or sentence enforcement judge. I therefore call for a general obligation for all judges to undergo continuing training. Such an obligation exists in neighbouring countries. The law could indicate the number of hours of training per year that a magistrate must follow as a minimum, as well as the topics to be addressed or the skills to be acquired.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u29	Mr Minister, I am pleased because, if I understand correctly, we agree that this training is mandatory. This is an important step forward. The societal context is quite permeable to this kind of action. The question of consent that is often invoked – as we see in the case of Liège – is something very regrettable. I hope that in the coming weeks, in the face of the concussion created by this open letter from Julie's parents, we will indeed be able to continue to move forward on the path of justice that actually punishes these acts that are essentially the work of men – I remind you – and in the path of restorative justice especially for all those victims who today do not feel sufficiently listened to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u30	Madam President, Minister, in the Finance Tower scandal, on which my colleague, Marco Van Hees, spoke in plenary session, three Belgian businessmen close to the Verhofstadt I government, in particular the former Minister of Public Enterprises, Rik Daems (Open Vld), were charged in 2016 with money laundering and tax malfeasance. On 11 September 2019, the Indictments Chamber decided that the defendants will be tried in criminal proceedings by the Brussels Correctional Court. Main accusation: suspicions of payment of a €9 million occult commission paid during the sale of the Tour des Finances on 20 December 2001. Correspondingly, on Friday, January 17, 2020, a contract for the sale of the Tour des Finances was signed. It is probably one of the largest hold-ups of all time for Belgium. Both the terms of the lease and the terms of sale are and have been extremely unfavourable to the public authorities. The State lost nearly one and a half billion in this sale and the rent paid by the Régie des Bâtiments is very high, well above the market rent. The incredible affair of the Tower of Finance is indeed composed of an accumulation of scandals. It is aberrant to observe the general impossibility of this wastage of public money to inflate the bank accounts of millionaires. In particular, no decisive information was provided, namely the state of play of the above-mentioned trial. Therefore, Minister, I would like to know the status of this trial with precision. Where is this trial in the proceedings? If the trial is still ongoing, should the State not take precautionary measures to safeguard its interests? Is it not possible for the State to revise the rents downwards in the intervening period of the judgement? Moreover, if corruption is proven, is it not for the State to question the terms of the sale of 20 December 2001 and, by extension, the sale of 17 January 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u31	Madam President, Mr Hedebouw, the case in question was tried at first instance by the 52nd Chamber of the Dutch-speaking Court of First Instance in Brussels by a judgment of 26 February 2016. One of the convicts appealed against the judgement, which was appealed by the Public Prosecutor's Office in his case. The decision of the Court of Appeal is not yet final given that the case is still pending before the Court of Cassation, the introduction of the appeal in cassation dated 27 November 2019. Given that this is an ongoing case, I cannot yet comment on the possible implications for civil law. However, the Régie des Bâtiments is currently examining what is legally possible at the contract level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u32	Minister, I do not feel you very willing in this matter. There is a growing body of evidence to defend the public interest. We're losing a lot of money. There are many debates on austerity applied in many public areas. Here, it is very clear that we have lost a billion euros, "in the bagatelle". It seems to me that there are still arguments. I wish I'd seen your firm a little more proactive, more proactive. We have to open up a way. I'm sure you'd get a lot of support if you opened this path. I understand that various politicians have had a bit of a hard time in the case: Rik Daems, Frank Zweegers, who is a businessman close enough to the political community, played a role in it. That is no reason to testify to a lack of will. I hope, Minister, that we follow the procedure very closely and that if the decision were to be in favour of the state, which I have no doubt, all appropriate measures will be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u33	Mr Minister, the Dubai Papers contain 160,000 files that expose the secret of an international financial network suspected of tax fraud that has been operating between Belgium, Switzerland and the United Arab Emirates for the past 25 years. These documents provide new information on the case of the Hélin group, led by the Belgian prince Henri de Croÿ, suspected of being at the heart of a network of tax fraud and money laundering. The Dubai Papers suggest that it cannot be merely tax engineering, contrary to the conclusion of the Liège Court of Appeal in 2015. This exceptional wealth of information makes it possible to decipher for the first time from inside the functioning of a very closed circle composed mainly of entrepreneurs and wealthy heirs. In our view, financial crime is all the more harmful as these abusive enrichments are made at the expense of abandoned public projects due to a lack of sufficient budgetary resources. Belgium opened judicial information at the beginning of September with a view to obtaining the documents from the judges of the national financial prosecutor's office in Paris in order to shed light on the sinuous methods of large-scale financial crime networks. On 22 January, you said that this Dubai Papers issue is now a priority. In these computer listings, the names of other Belgian personalities appear: business lawyers Thierry Afschrift, also an alternate judge, and Arnaud Jansen, as well as former magistrate Jean Lotz. Both lawyers are currently the subject of a disciplinary investigation by the Brussels Bar Association, their actions being completely incompatible with their professional ethics. Minister, in the fight against financial crime and the prevention of corruption of judges, would it not be appropriate to introduce a system of functional incompatibility for the office of judge when it comes to lawyers, in particular business lawyers, tax lawyers or accountants? Are you in favour of such a reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u34	Mr Hedebouw, most recently, the law of 23 March 2019 made changes to the system of substitute magistrates. The Judicial Code is supplemented by provisions aimed at strengthening the requirements for the recruitment of judges and alternate advisers and their functioning. From now on, candidates must pass a recruitment examination, while new alternate judges must undergo mandatory initial training, including ethics training. These new provisions entered into force on 1 January. The law also removed the possibility for alternate judges to replace judges of the Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as the provision to serve as an alternate judge and lawyer at the same hearing. With this law, Belgium has responded favourably to the recommendations made by the Group of States against Corruption (GRECO), a working group of the Council of Europe. Now, it takes time to assess its effects. As far as individual cases are concerned, an alternate judge is subject to the same rules of ethics as an effective judge. The Judicial Code provides that the disciplinary authority may always suspend a judge from his or her duties. As a matter of order, in the interest of the service, he is prosecuted for a crime, an offence or discipline.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u35	Mr Minister, you do not answer my question: do you not think that criteria of incompatibility should be set? It's interesting as a proposition, isn't it? I can see that this is a sensitive debate. However, if the fight against financial crime is to be given priority, it would be healthy if the boundaries between those who judge and those who will be tried were less blurred. That is the problem in such cases. My question was quite simple. So I'm still hungry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u36	Minister, justice is a public service that must be accessible to all. The right of access to a judge is a fundamental right recognized by the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The United Nations has targeted justice as the sixteenth goal of sustainable development, and I quote: "Providing equal access to justice for all". We are defending community justice in order to solve a problem in an accessible, fast and cheap way. However, the number of justices of peace was reduced during the last legislature by the law of 25 December 2017. You have closed no less than 34 justices of the peace, which, as a reminder, deal mainly with disputes related to invoices or between tenants and their owners. As a result, justices of the peace, who have already seen their material competence extended, since they are now called upon to deal with disputes involving sums of up to 5,000 euros – rather than 2,500 – will see their workload increase due to the increase (estimated between 23 and 42%) of the population integrating the reorganized cantons. Indeed, while they embody local justice, it is at this level that savings are made, further enclosing justice in an ivory tower. Even more disconcerting are the testimony of the judges that it is the most impoverished people who will be the most affected by this measure. I quote: "At hearings, people are regularly confronted with people who lack the means and are affected by poverty. For the latter and those with mobility problems, it is clear that this will complicate access." Minister, has an impact assessment of the Act of 25 December 2017, which came into force in January 2018, been completed? If so, is its impact, in particular on access to justice, compatible with our international obligations? If not, when will this impact assessment be conducted? Will the consideration of the criterion of access to justice be given particular attention?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u37	Mr Hedebouw, with the reconfiguration of the cantons under the Act of 25 December 2017 and the extension of the powers ratione summae under the Act of 1 September 2018, the justices of the peace have indeed undergone important reforms, which have enabled them to be strengthened. The cantonal reform has been prepared in consultation with the local judicial authorities. Each submitted its proposal. These proposals then served as the basis for the bill. Several criteria were also taken into account, such as the equitable distribution of the workload, the number of inhabitants, the presence of psychiatric care centres, the surface of the cantons, the location, accessibility, the condition of the buildings and the staff. The implementation of new cantons and thus the closure of the justices de paix and their move to their new seats have spread over almost two years. The reform of the last cantons entered into force on 1 December 2019. It is therefore necessary to allow some time before the reform can be evaluated. It also took place in full cooperation with the justices of the peace and the judiciary and did not lead to major difficulties. At the same time, justices of the peace are now competent to deal with cases of up to EUR 5,000, which has enabled more litigants to avail themselves of it. By the simplicity of these procedures and their proximity, justices of peace are easily accessible to citizens. This reform will therefore facilitate access to justice and strengthen the justice system in its role of community justice. Finally, I would like to point out that the law of 1 February 2019 postponed the collection of role rights to the delivery of the judgment. Therefore, this is less of an obstacle for the litigant if he wants to appeal to the court.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u38	Minister, I hear your argument that it is too early to make an impact assessment. Do you still have any idea when you'll do it? It's going to be more than a year since January 1, 2019 and our returns from the field are less enthusiastic than yours. You say that everything has been done in excellent coordination but I hear a lot of complaints, including from magistrates because they have more cases to deal with. In itself, it is democraticly important, but if the means do not follow, this democratisation falls short of its goal. On this side, Mr Minister, I hope that you will quickly carry out this assessment so that we can have a more open debate on the concrete problems at this first level of justice, which is essential to guarantee equal access to justice in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u39	Madam President, Minister, the Royal Order of 15 December 2019 setting out the organisation of the borough's judicial expenses offices, as well as the procedure for the allocation, verification, payment and recovery of criminal justice costs and related costs, proves to have implications for narcotics. Following the entry into force of this Royal Decree, compensation for environmental damage related to drugs, drug precursors and associated waste cannot in principle be made under the guise of taxation in court fees. This is indeed a pollution problem which must be treated as such and falls within the competence of other authorities, namely the municipalities and the regions. However, the removal of drugs, drug precursors and associated waste may be taxed as legal expenses if required by the Public Prosecutor's Office. This royal decree entails a charge to the communes and the local police which is unlikely to have been agreed and negotiated. However, on the basis of Circular 2/2002, cannabis crops are treated a priori by the Federal Police. In practice, the various police areas are required to deal with several cases per year in which thousands of cannabis plants are seized. This implies a huge burden for local police services (removal and destruction of plants, dismantling of electrical installations, evacuation of equipment, etc.).). Minister, the Royal Decree of 15 December 2019 involves significant costs for municipalities and local police areas. Why has this not been the subject of consultation with the competent authorities? How can we avoid putting the authorities in difficulty and limiting the increasing cost of seizures of narcotic drugs and their destruction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u40	Dear colleague, the law of 23 March 2019 on criminal justice costs and the implementing decree of 15 December 2019 entered into force on 1 January 2020. As for the subject matter of your question, Article 35, 10°, of this royal decree contains two criteria indicating which costs constitute legal costs. The first criterion concerns possible environmental remediation and other environmental costs. These elements do not constitute legal costs. This royal decree does not change the rules governing the allocation of powers. As in the past, the reorganisation of an environment is the responsibility of the Regions and the municipalities. The second criterion concerns the absence of requisitions from the Public Prosecutor's Office for the removal of drugs, precursors and associated waste. On the other hand, the costs of justice do include the removal of drugs, precursors and waste from drug laboratories and plantations if they are part of the judicial procedure and if they are required by a magistrate. In itself, therefore, no additional costs are incurred by this royal decree, first because this royal decree does not alter the agreements reached within the integrated police regarding the division of powers between the local police and the federal police. It therefore does not entail any additional workload at the expense of the local police. In this regard, the Royal Decree should therefore not be the subject of concerted action. Second, the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Law of 23 March 2019 stipulates that the costs incurred in the designation of service providers in order to restore to their state of origin goods which have been damaged or whose value has been reduced in the course of an offence in the process of being committed, or an offence, constitute legal costs. In this respect, and as you note, municipalities may intervene on the above-mentioned conditions and be reimbursed for the services provided. Here, too, the municipalities must not bear any new costs. In order to give more concrete effect to the scope of Article 35, 10°, of this royal decree, a consultation will be organised with the various parties concerned. This consultation should lead to a circular issued by the College of Attorneys General.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u41	Mr Minister, I am pleased to hear that consultation is planned in a short time, we hope. Indeed, this information goes back to the ground, with concern from the municipalities and the police services, which obviously have to face these costs. We will remain attentive to developments in this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-02-12-55-commissie-ic109x.u42	Question No 55003252C by Mr. Van Hecke is postponed to a future meeting.
