ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u1	Good morning, everyone. As Ms. Jadin was absent, her question lapsed. I call Mrs Van Bossuyt, who is with us via videoconference. You have five questions about the travel sector. You can ask them all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u2	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, since June 20, travellers who have had their stay cancelled due to the crisis of the VOCID-19 are no longer obliged to accept properly. They can now demand a refund within 14 days of the termination of the contract, as required by the European Directive and the law of 21 November 2017. We have already asked a lot of questions about this voucher mechanism, which was a temporary system valid for three months. The aim was to support the sector and prevent it from experiencing the economic crisis by having to repay large sums of money. What is your assessment of this system? Do you have any indicators that our companies in the sector have resisted better than abroad because of this system? Could you take stock of the rules applicable from this 20th June? At the same time, we still receive evidence that some agencies issue vouchers that do not comply with the Ministerial Order; for example, some agencies do not at all mention the possibility of being reimbursed once the 12-month period has passed. Will your administration continue to monitor the compliance of these vouchers with the Ministerial Order? If so, which one? Some vouchers indicate in the general terms and conditions that they are nominative and non-feasible: is this in accordance with the Ministerial Order which states that the traveller uses it at his or her own discretion? What happens in case of death or physical impossibility to travel within 12 months? Can a consumer who considers a good contrary to the ministerial order require rewriting? You announced at the May 27 session the establishment of a task force with the SPF Economy and professional organizations. Can you provide an overview of the work of this group? Finally, school trips were cancelled, representing a loss of €517 per basic school and €4,222 per secondary school, which is not negligible. There are also fixed amounts in vouchers issued by tour operators for the following year. Can you tell us about the impact of regulation on the cash flow of organizing powers in education?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u3	Since Ms. Dierick was absent, her question became moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Coronavirus crisis has created unprecedented chaos in the air sector. Many Belgian citizens had to go abroad this year, at Easter or during the summer period, but now find themselves in an untenable situation. Thus, some of them no longer have any news from the airline or the tour operator because of the financial difficulties they face. Others are simply denied reimbursement of the amount of their trip or are offered vouchers that do not correspond in any way to the value of the reservation. Minister, how will you ensure that all companies and tour operators comply with current legislation? Can you guarantee the refund to all users who wish to obtain it? Finally, how do you intend to ensure that companies and tour operators provide their customers with accurate information in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u5	I would like to look around to see if colleagues would like to join the topical debate. I do not see any speakers other than those who have already asked a question, so I give the floor to the Minister for her answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are again a number of questions relating to the travel sector. That's not abnormal. First of all, I confirm that we have been in regular contact with all the professional organizations in the travel sector, both those representing the tour operators and those representing the travel agencies. According to the latest figures I received from the Business Carrefour Bank, seven travel agencies have been declared bankrupt from the beginning of this year until June 16, including two in June. There was no bankruptcy of tour operators. According to the Ministerial Order of 19 March 2020 and according to the latest figures received from the sector, 205,000 vouchers with a total value of more than 345 million euros were issued. This amount is sufficient proof that this order strongly supported the sector's liquidity position. However, I do not have information that allows me to make a comparison with abroad. With respect to other support measures, the federal government has taken a range of measures to support businesses in this crisis, which can also benefit travel businesses. I am thinking of the temporary unemployment which has been extended, of the possibility of a payment plan for the employer's social security contribution, VAT, withholding tax and income tax on natural persons and companies. For self-employed workers, a deferral or exemption from the payment of social security contributions can be obtained, not to mention the bridge right. The Regions have also taken various support measures. Today, I am not in a position to give a precise answer regarding the perspective for coach travel. In general, it is clear that the travel sector will still be affected by the coronavirus pandemic for a long time; that is why I am of the opinion that this sector will have to be able to benefit from the planned extension of the temporary unemployment scheme which can be applied for certain sectors or companies until the end of this year. The voucher system has not been extended, as the Code of Economic Law always provides for temporary emergency measures. As far as the European Commission is concerned, I replied to the request for information from Commissioner Reynders within the deadline set on 28 May. I confirmed that the voucher scheme would remain an exceptional and temporary measure which would not be renewed after 3 months. I am now waiting for a possible response. Fortunately, travel to other Member States of the EU, to the Schengen countries and to Great Britain has been possible since last week. The borders are open again and it is to be expected that further relaxation will follow. I read in Le Soir this weekend that the Commissioner said that certain countries had replied and he also referred to Belgium. It is, of course, a pity to have to read something like this in the newspaper, when one does not get a reaction. The Commissioner also said that he would go to the European Court of Justice for those countries that have not replied or that the measures will continue. I therefore assume that he will not do that for Belgium and that he agreed with my answer. However, I have not yet received any formal confirmation of this. The Ministerial Decision of 19 March 2020 shall not be repealed. If we were to do this, there would no longer be any regulatory basis for the travel vouchers issued, so that no doubt a massive refund would be requested. I have just said that a sum of EUR 350 million is at stake. A withdrawal would increase liquidity problems in the sector exponentially, and it is certainly not the intention to launch a wave of bankruptcy. Furthermore, I remain of the opinion that we have adequately protected the consumer through this regulation, even better than by strictly applying the provisions of the directive on reimbursement. After all, once a package travel has been cancelled, the traveller is no longer covered by insolvency insurance. The decision allowed vouchers to be issued instead of refunding them, which meant that the travel sector could also refund in the event of cancellation, which some have done. So I do not see what is unclear about this and why action should be taken. Today, tour operators who cancel package travel can still propose to the traveller to accept a travel cheque. The traveller obviously also has the opportunity to book another package trip. In this way, he will continue to enjoy the protection of insolvency insurance. Some tour operators have already made a strong commitment to this, and the consumer organisations have already made it quite clear, as I have already said, that rebooking a trip clearly offers more protection than keeping a travel cheque after 19 June. I invite travellers who have received a voucher that would not meet the requirements of the Ministerial Order to report to the point of contact. The Economic Inspectorate will continue to ensure the correct application of the provisions of the Order, for example as regards the manner in which it is used or the reimbursement of unused vouchers during their period of validity. With respect to the nominative and non-viable nature of the good, the Order does not state this. Consequently, the issue of such vouchers is not prohibited. A traveller who has not used his voucher during the period of validity may, upon expiry, obtain the refund in cash. In the event of death, the heirs enter the rights of the deceased and have the right to use or be reimbursed the voucher. When the voucher issued does not meet all the requirements of the Ministerial Order, this implies that the traveller is entitled to an immediate refund. I do not think it is illogical for group travel to be subject to the same rules as for individual travel. Normally, the travel organisation for a group trip has a single contractor. As for individual trips, the voucher is issued in the name of the contractor. The Ministerial Decision of 19 March is no longer applicable. A review is not on the table. All I have just said is the cancellation of package travel. Passengers' rights in the event of cancellation of flights by an airline are governed by European Regulation 261/2004. The implementation of this regulation falls within the competence of the Minister of Mobility. The questions relating to airlines should therefore be asked. The aim of the task force announced is to ensure a clear and correct view of the new situation, following the gradual de-finition of travel, as well as communication to companies in the travel sector, which must also be in line with that transmitted to consumers. The first working paper prepared by the Association of Belgian Travel Organisations (ABTO) was recently transmitted. The other professional associations now have the opportunity to comment on this text. FPS Economy was asked to browse the document. The Task Force will meet shortly. The annual accounts of the Guarantee Fund Travel was approved by the General Assembly last week. I can give you the following figures. An equalisation provision includes EUR 15.1 million and the solvency margin EUR 4.3 million. The Guarantee Fund buffer is EUR 19.5 million. In addition, policy holders must also provide additional guarantees. The Guarantee Fund expects the corona crisis to have a significant impact on its financial performance and solvency, but it expects an even greater impact on the collection and on the damage burden. The corona crisis inevitably puts a heavy burden on insurance companies that cover the insolvency of travel companies. The voucher scheme which supports the travel sector has therefore been of interest to them. The insurers concerned and their professional organisation Assuralia ask whether a State guarantee can be granted to them. I'm following that situation closely. In any case, I sent a letter to the Minister of Finance asking him to be very attentive to this issue, also taking into account the European obligation to set up a guarantee system in the event of insolvency. Figures of the number of notifications were requested. Since the outbreak of the corona pandemic, the hotline has received more than a thousand reports of cancelled travel. Most of it refers to cancelled flights. Only about forty deal with cancelled package travel and have a variety of content, such as a non-agreement with the cheque, the non-reception of the voucher or the inaccessibility of the travel company. With regard to the specific file on recent bookings and cancellations, as from 10 June, when I saw the first reports in the media, I immediately instructed the Economic Inspectorate to open an investigation into the practices of the companies concerned. The inspection started the investigation quickly. I have called on consumers to address the practices through the hotline. We have received about 500 reports of cancelled travel and after analysis 100 of them appear to be specifically about the practice of cancelled flights, which is what the demand is about. I now prefer not to engage in conversation, because I await the investigation and the outcome of the Economic Inspectorate. However, I can say, as you have already heard from the press, that TUI has directed a letter in which the company apologizes and undertakes to contact each customer concerned and to offer a solution without any additional costs. At the moment I have no idea the number of cancellations. The Economic Inspectorate's investigation concerns compliance with rules on unfair commercial practices. The purpose of the investigation is not to analyse the prices themselves, as they are freely determined. If unfair commercial practices are established, the Economic Inspectorate will, in complete independence, assess the outcome of this: a report, a warning, a proposal for transaction or transfer of the file to the public prosecutor. If there is a risk of continuation of that practice or likelihood of recurrence, a claim for strike may also be brought. For the question on the application of the regulation on air passengers' rights, please refer to Minister Bellot. There was also a question from Mrs Dierick about the FSMA's control of travel insurance. This question was not asked because it is not present, but I suggest that I give her the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your different answers. First and foremost, I believe that everyone agrees that the travel sector is one of the most affected sectors of the whole corona crisis. It is certainly a good thing that the necessary measures have been taken. I naturally regret, like you, the fact that certain points of view need to be heard in the press. That is not the correct way of doing things. The Guarantee Fund for Travel has the necessary resources to continue to repay travellers. You say you will make a specific request to the Minister of Finance. There is certainly a justification for this, in order to support this sector. We must also note that there may have been no abuse, but indeed almost misleading consumers about the so-called ghost flights, or the cancelled flights. It is very good that you have taken the necessary steps. There's got to be a solution. There must be no deception. If there are already unfair commercial practices, they must be tackled. The travel sector has been severely affected and consumers must not be distrusted in this sector by things that are happening. Every effort must be made to ensure that confidence in the sector is restored to the consumer, who may be affected by this confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u8	Thank you, Madam Minister, for the very comprehensive answer to the same issues and questions again. Despite the measures taken and the ministerial decision, it seems to remain open to interpretation by some. That is a pity for the consumer. For my question about misleading commercial practices at Ryanair, please refer to Mr Bellot. However, the Minister always refers me back to you as Minister of Consumer Affairs. Well, then, of course, I'm not gonna get an answer. Ryanair offers a voucher, but if a journey is cheaper than what was initially paid, it does not match that amount. For example, if you originally paid 50 euros for a trip and then book a 40 euro trip, the difference will be left that way. That was not really the intention of the voucher system. In a previous round of questions, you had confirmed that no additional costs can be charged. These are additional costs that are charged to the consumer. That's not according to the rules of reimbursement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u9	Even the voucher is invalid for the aviation sector. I've made a ministerial decision on package travel. Those are flights and overnight stays. I am indeed responsible for consumers, but it is up to the Minister of Mobility to speak to airlines. We wrote letters together. In response, the aviation sector is in so much trouble that it does not have the liquidity to repay the flights. But you're right. If a flight costs 80 euros and the new flight costs 70 euros, the remaining 10 euros should be used next time. You're right about 300 %. But even giving the cheque is contrary to European regulations. Not only in Belgium, but also in all European countries. The large companies such as KLM and Air France also do the same across Europe. There too, action must be taken by my colleague at European level. I can only repeat this. Of course I protect the consumer, but everyone's job.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u10	I'd love to hear you say it, but that doesn't solve it. In my opinion, a lot of consumers want to join the voucher system just for the flight ticket. Often it is not about EUR 10, but about much larger amounts. That's why I think it's problematic. But I will try again to raise this with your colleague, Minister Bellot. About the group trips, you say it makes sense that there's only one voucher, because there's one contractor. Actually, I don't think that makes any sense. Legally it may be logical, but if there is a group of 20 different people travelling, it is very difficult to reorganise it with the same 20 people. Often these trips happen in an educational context or something. So it is not obvious that this can take place next year with the same group. For a consumer, it is not logical that there should be one group voucher for everyone. Thank you, however, for your answer. I shall put the question again to your colleague, Mr Bellot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u11	Good luck with the ping-pong game. If you want a referee, we'll find someone. Otherwise, you'll have to ask the Prime Minister everything if they continue to refer to each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u12	Minister, thank you for this long and detailed answer. You are used to it and it is obviously comfortable for us, parliamentarians. I simply regret that, despite this ministerial decree, an artistic blurry remains or, in any case, a possible interpretation of the legislation that some do not hesitate to take advantage of, to the detriment of the consumer. In this committee, which also takes over consumer rights and protection, one can of course only deplore this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u13	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. However, it is irritating to see airline owners, such as Ryanair, making a complete mockery of the legislation in force. He has already done this on a regular basis with the social rights of workers. Today, he puts the cover back with the users. I therefore hope, Madam Minister, that you will be more strict in the event of non-compliance with the rules. Too many citizens have suffered hard from coronavirus and need air to blow a little. We will therefore closely monitor what will be put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am also concerned about these airlines. As Minister of Consumer Affairs, I am responsible for relations between two parties, but I also come across the airlines as Minister of Work. I've already taken action against many of them. For passenger rights there is the ombud service at the FPS Mobility, if one has a problem with the train or with aviation. Different things have to happen, from that power. I have suggested several times to colleagues to do things together, to write letters together to the European Commission. The only answer we get each time is that, although Member States support them financially, this must be done correctly. Mrs Depraetere, you are still kind to the examples you give. I also get a lot of e-mails from consumers. Someone has, for example, received a travel cheque of 150 euros. The flight has not continued, one wants to rebook and one often ends up at a call centre in India, where one applies a manual and states that one cannot book a particular flight because it is not about the same destination. However, no one is saying that one should take the same destination. The next day people call again and they are told that it is a short-haul flight, while the check relates to a long-haul flight. The third time one calls, there is suddenly no problem and one can redeem the check. These things happen too. This was about a flight from Brussels Airlines. We will also pass on these comments, including to the Economic Inspectorate and the hotline, to take this into account in the ongoing investigations. I want to fight with you, but I hope others will fight with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u15	With call centers in India, we won't get very far.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u16	Madam Minister, I would still like to ask you a question which you can very well answer in writing, if you wish. One person contacted me over the phone telling me that she had booked her August vacation, that she had paid a deposit and that she was now being asked to pay the balance, which is quite logical. But what if, in the meantime, the trip had to be cancelled since the destination of his trip is Turkey and Turkey is not yet one of the countries where one can travel?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u17	What exactly is the reservation about? Is this a package?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u18	Yes. The reservation includes the return flight and the hotel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u19	She has to pay the balance. If the trip takes place, so much the better! If she doesn't want to leave because she's scared, she can always cancel her trip. But perhaps an amount will be withheld for cancellation fees. I draw attention here to the fact that if she decides to cancel her trip only a few days before August 1st, these costs can be high. If entry into Turkey is not possible, it will be reimbursed for the full amount it has paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u20	I can take what you're saying for granted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u21	Yes. But it is possible that a travel check will be offered to him. In any case, when it is not possible to make a trip because the country of destination – I am thinking here of Turkey and Vietnam – does not allow travellers to enter its territory, a refund must be made or a travel cheque must be offered, a solution which the customer is not obliged to accept.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u22	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u23	I have already asked Minister Bellot about specific passenger rights for air travel. It is specifically about the current European negotiations on this subject. Then he says Minister Muylle is at the table. I just wanted to check with the Minister. Is that effective? Otherwise, I don't understand at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u24	Mrs Van Bossuyt, we do not understand you very well. You need to use better equipment or you need to come to Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u25	Bang & Olufsen is however good in my opinion. Can you hear me better now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u26	A little.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u27	I have already asked Minister Bellot a question about the passenger flights. He referred to Minister Muylle, who would conduct the negotiations at European level. So he's shifting responsibility. I wanted to check with Minister Muylle to see if that's true.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u28	Madam Secretary, do you understand?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u29	I understand very well. Mrs. Van Bossuyt, I'm lucky to have someone from the FPS Economy in my presence today. This really isn't my jurisdiction. I have been here for ten months and I have not been present at any European forum on passenger rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u30	Madam Secretary, when you meet Minister Bellot at the Council of Ministers, I suggest you talk about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u31	Mr President, I tabled this question on 11 June, and I am pleased that since yesterday, many colleagues seem to recognize the importance of the problem. Probably an interest organisation has noticed the question and wrote to several people, who have also been woken up. I can only welcome this. Madam Minister, there are still hundreds of historic lifts in Belgium, especially in Brussels, Antwerp and Ostend. They have a great heritage value, because they are historically unique and give great added value to a building. However, we see that the historic lifts dating back to 1958 are in danger of disappearing if they fail to comply with today's safety standards by 31 December 2022. That would not only be a pity because the heritage will disappear, it will cost an association of co-owners in an apartment building a lot of money to have a new lift installed. Following an earlier consultation between the Länder and the FPS Economy, there would be a follow-up discussion with the owners' associations, the external technical inspection services at the workshop (EDTC) and the heritage administrations of the regions concerned to see how the adaptation to present safety standards can be organised in practice. However, that has not yet happened to my knowledge. It is now July 2020 and the deadline is 31 December 2022. It will therefore be very short notice to adapt all these historic lifts in two years' time, without compromising their historical value. Madam Minister, I have some very specific questions about this. Are you aware of the problem of these lifts and do you agree that it is of historical importance to maintain them? How will the preservation of the heritage value of lifts be reconciled with today's safety standards? The Royal Decree of 9 March 2003 on the security of lifts provides for an exception for lifts of historical value. A sub-committee on lifts of historical value was set up to grant the exception. How many files have been submitted there and how many have been dealt with? How often was an exception granted? There are often problems with the functioning and testing methods of the EDTCs, as they really want to exclude all risks and are not open to lighter solutions that respect the possible historical value of a lift. What solution do you see for this? Will the inspectors be offered specific training for this purpose? When will there be a start in the file? When will the file on the historical lifts be discussed with the owners' associations, the control services and the heritage administration of the regions? Will the deadline of 31 December 2022 be reversed if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u32	Mrs Van Bossuyt, may I ask you to consider using a headset? You are very difficult to understand here in the Chamber, and that also makes the work of the interpreters particularly difficult. You can also check if your microphone is not covered by documents, for example. I ask you that because the sound is very bad here in the room.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u33	Minister, this is our heritage. I already asked a written question on this subject several months ago. Open lifts (which date from before 1930) are rare in Belgium. However, these lifts may be the subject of historical recognition or classification, and are included in the Regional Architectural Heritage Inventory. In 2003 there were between 75,000 and 80,000 lifts, of which about 10,000 were from before 1958. According to a number of actors on the ground who have called us, the legal system that concerns the modernization of the elevators puts them at risk. In order to ensure the safety of users, lifts must meet a number of technical requirements – Royal Decree of 9 March 2003. Lifts put into service before 1 January 1958 must be upgraded by 31 December 2022 at the latest. For lifts put into service between 1958 and 1984, the upgrades were to be carried out by 31 December 2016, for lifts put into service after 1984, the upgrades were to be carried out by 31 December 2014. The owners of these lifts are confronted with the perverse effects of a standardised risk analysis carried out by the 12 SECT – External Technical Control Services – approved. This is a standardized control method adapted to modern elevators only. The law allows two types of verification: on the one hand, a kind of checklist, where it is sufficient to verify the actual situation in relation to the requirements of the Royal Decree and on the other hand, the Kinney method, which ensures that the solutions proposed by the ascendorists meet the prescribed safety standards. If the controllers are content with this checklist, the old elevators are in danger because the requirements of this method distort the style of the elevators. We are witnessing the destruction of beautiful elevators in buildings to replace them with functional elevators. Minister, do you intend to modify or, at a minimum, reduce the procedure to preserve the heritage value of these elevators? Have you contacted your regional colleagues in this direction? Do you intend to post the date of December 31, 2022 to allow more time for owners to renovate their elevator in a manner that respects its heritage value?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u34	Madam Minister, in the country's major cities, Brussels, Antwerp, Charleroi, Liège, we still find a large number of old elevators, which have a historical or aesthetic value such as to be able to preserve them. In the past, the political will had been to put in place a specific procedure for the modernisation of these old elevators, in order to reconcile the safety of the user and the preservation of the heritage. Unfortunately, this procedure did not work very well. Only a very limited number of modernization files – to my knowledge ten files, seven of which are incomplete – have been introduced in the last fifteen years. The Royal Decree of 9 March 2003 sets the deadline of 31 December 2022 for the modernization of the lifts put into service before 1958. The consequence is that many of these old elevators may disappear or be deeply denatured if a balance between the various issues is not found very quickly. Yet, a new dynamic is in place. The Brussels Region has set up an inventory and a typology of old elevators of heritage value, and is also carrying out activities to train ascensorists specific to their preservation. Then, citizens' associations are actively mobilized. Minister, can you take stock of the work done at the level of the Sub-Committee on Historical Elevators set up with the SPF Economy? Since the Royal Order came into force, how many old elevators have been brought into compliance? What is your approach in this case? Is there any consultation with the three regions concerned in order to find a solution to this problem, in consultation with the various actors – trustees of co-owners, technical control services, citizens' collectives? A citizen association has proposed to the SPF Economy to recognize electronic curtains as an alternative security solution for old open sheathed elevators: has this proposal been examined and what action can be taken? Finally, are you considering giving the owners of old elevators an extra time to give the dynamic set up by the Regions a chance to succeed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u35	Minister, this is a matter that I dealt with when I was a Member of Parliament for the Region ten years ago. In my capacity as Echevine du Patrimoine in Ixelles, we launched the cadastre of historic elevators. In fact, the old elevators are unique parts that have been made to measure. It is no longer possible to carry out such works in our time. In practice, the administration, the External Technical Control Services (SECT), the trustees, the ascendorists treat these elevators as if they were currently on the market. Owners feel distraught and are often led to replace these elevators with steel cages that completely denature their building. There is a difference between the application texts and the practice in this case. The Royal Decree provides for the historical value of old elevators to be taken into account after the advice of the services of protection of monuments and sites. It is known that the Regions are working to find solutions and that you are expecting feedback in this regard, but for the moment it is the owners who have to propose solutions to the SECTs and they never commit themselves to the list of works to be carried out. In practice, therefore, some owners have had work done in consultation with the SECTs but have not committed themselves to doing so. Later, when the work is completed, they do not obtain the certificate of the SECTs and their elevator cannot be returned to service. On the other hand, the historic elevators sub-committee met, I think, only barely more than three times. That means everything. So trustees and owners are in a dead end. Some give in to pressure and replace their elevator by sending a work of art to the scrapyard. It is therefore urgent and it is certainly necessary to delay the deadline of 31 December 2022 in order to try to find solutions. This will allow the Regions and the federal government to work on it. The Royal Decree of 9 March 2003 stipulates that old elevators must be upgraded by 31 December 2022. Heavy fines would be imposed on owners who failed to enforce the modernization. These are the penalties provided for in the Code of Economic Law, which is primarily aimed at protecting the security of the user. It requires producers to place only safe products on the market. The penalties provided for apply to producers. In the case of the modernization of historic elevators, penalties are applied to consumers to protect them from companies that place dangerous products on the market. However, owners and associations of co-owners are not producers or distributors but users. Old elevators have, by definition, been on the market for a long time and there is therefore no "market entry". Former elevators currently in service are "safe products" under the Code of Economic Law, which also states that "the possibility of achieving a higher level of safety or of obtaining other products with a lower risk is not sufficient reason to consider a product as dangerous". The old elevators that are maintained are therefore "safe products". Sentencing to a criminal penalty presupposes that there is an offence and that a law punishes this offence, in accordance with article 14 of our Constitution. Minister, my questions are as follows. What legislation makes it a criminal offence for owners or associations of co-owners not to upgrade their elevators within the time limits laid down in the Royal Decree of 9 March 2003? What legislation punishes this offence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u36	The problem is well known to me. The head of the Safety and Quality department, Mr Vandercruysse, who is responsible for the lifting file at the FPS Economy, is here to provide additional technical support. A lot of meetings have been organized in front of me. The Royal Decree on the security of lifts, published in 2003, imposed on the owners of lifts deadlines to adapt the lifts to a level of safety expected for the 21st century. It is therefore not intended to bring the lifts in line with today's latest safety standards but to improve the safety of lifts, as expected in the 21st century of utensils. Some of our lifts are almost a hundred years old and have never been adapted for safety reasons throughout their lifetime. With respect to historic elevators, it is quite possible to preserve their heritage value while bringing them into line with the safety requirements as described in the Royal Decree in question. But this usually requires a greater financial effort than just modernization without preserving historical qualities. The Royal Decree of 9 March 2003 does not provide for any real exceptional rule for historic elevators. Article 4 of the Order only states that in carrying out the risk analysis it is possible to take account of the historic nature of the lift. In practice, this means that standard solutions should not be chosen, but that it is possible to develop specific acceptable solutions from both an aesthetic and a safety point of view. The Order does not define which method of risk analysis should be used by the External Services for Technical Controls (SECT). It falls within the competence of the SECTs themselves to see the method they can offer. The owner has the free choice as to which SECT he wants to address. Together, they will choose the method to be used for the elevator concerned. The committee responsible for supervising the owners of the lifts has so far received three complete files on lifts of heritage value, one of which has already been dealt with. The committee has neither the power nor the competence to approve the lifts after modernisation, that is for the EDTCs. When they reach a consensus on security, one can move on. The proper functioning of the EDTCs is not under discussion here. They are open to any solution that meets the safety aspects that they are required to legally monitor, such as electronic safety curtains, if they ensure adequate safety. Furthermore, the EDTCs themselves are competent to train their inspectors. This is not one of the tasks of the government. With regard to historic elevators, an extensive consultation took place on 11 October 2019 with the relevant Federal Public Services (Economy and Employment, Labour and Social Concertation), the SECTs, representatives of industry and those of the owners' associations. Even heritage and regional governments have been consulted on several occasions. One of the points of action in these discussions was that heritage authorities and homeowners' associations would establish cooperation to communicate to the FPS Economy proposals for the modernization of historic elevators, as a result of which my administration would discuss with the EGTCs and elevator installers. In this way, certain technical solutions can be validated, after which everyone can apply them in a similar situation. This approach should make it easier for owners, modernisation companies and the EDTCs to draw up a good modernisation dossier. No proposal has been tabled so far. The FPS Economy, the EDTCs and the industry have always acted proactively in the case in question. The proposal to validate certain technical solutions was submitted to the owners' associations years ago, but was still unsuccessful. It is true that the Royal Decree on 31 December 2020 will be nearly 20 years old, but it seems to me that it is too early to decide on the question of postponement by 2020. At the meeting that took place last year, it was agreed that proposals would be submitted to the FPS Economy to see how we can proceed. I'm willing to have a discussion about a delay, but I'd like to have some suggestions on the table first. If there are certain processes in progress, a delay is still possible, but that is not for two years to come. I am waiting first for proposals so that we can move forward before taking any further steps on a postponement. With regard to the legal basis of the Royal Decree on the safety of lifts and the penalties related to the Royal Decree, I can inform you that this Order is based on Article IX.4, Chapter 1 of the Code of Economic Law and the failure to comply with the Order is an offence under Article XV.102, Chapter 2 of the Code of Economic Law, which also provides for the sanction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u37	Madam Minister, I understand that a meeting took place on 11 October. You say that they have been asked to submit proposals and that they have not been submitted so far. I agree with you that it may then be too early to postpone after 31 December 2022. On the other hand, legal certainty for, among other things, owners' associations is very important. There are many who would like to keep their historic elevator. It would be a pity if they had already taken steps and put a very large amount of money on the table, and afterwards it would have turned out that this was not necessary and that they could have fixed their old historic lift in a certain technical way with safety standards. I hope that there can be a concession on both sides or that a solution can be found so that we can preserve as many historic lifts as possible, which have heritage value.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u38	Madam Minister, you did recall a whole series of facts from the past on this issue, but honestly, there is no concrete proposal to move forward. I hear you are also waiting for proposals following the October 11, 2019 meeting. I think that is the role of the government. I know that we need to work with regional governments and that this issue covers several levels of power, but there is an urgent need to move forward. In fact, whenever we reject the stone to other interlocutors to formulate proposals, we find ourselves in situations where nothing moves. And that's the conviction I have in this case. I'm still hungry about your answer, which describes the situation well, but we've all described it, it doesn't make any progress. On the other hand, I welcome the fact that there is a very broad democratic base of questioning in relation to what you have said. Ecolo-Groen tabled a resolution on this issue this morning. We invite all interested groups to join the process and co-sign. Parliament must be able to deal with this matter. This text of the resolution will help us to do so and we will come back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u39	Minister, I think this is far from symbolic. We see here all the difficulty of finding the right balance between safety and heritage. You mentioned this famous meeting of October 11, 2019. I understand that, as it stands, a request for postponement is premature, since no proposal has been made at this time. I think that in this type of case, which covers competences at different levels of power, someone has to take the lead and have a proactive policy. I think, Madam Minister, that you can be that person who, at some point, is instigating a dynamic to have a discussion in consultation with the three Regions to try to find a solution on this issue. I understand from your answer that you were aware of the subject. In doing so, rather than waiting for proposals to be submitted after this famous meeting in 2019, perhaps you could play a leading role in taking the initiative to organise a consultation between the three Regions in order to move forward effectively on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u40	Madam Minister, there is a real urgency. In fact, every day, owners are forced, under certain circumstances, to denature their elevator. We must at all costs prevent this massacre from continuing. If I make a comparison with the owners of an old car, would they have the idea of incorporating airbags that would distort their vehicle? You talked about a meeting that took place in October 2019 and about proposals for concrete solutions that should be made by the owners' associations. But we already know the solutions that exist. I am thinking here of the electronic curtain, the positive lock, the plexiglas panels. All these techniques have been certified. Unfortunately, the situation has been blocked for some time and elevators are no longer being renovated using the said techniques. Or the owners give in to panic: they have their elevator replaced, opt for a solution that distorts the latter or awaits, hoping, either a change in the practice – because the legislation is not so bad – or a postponement of the entry into force of the law. I think I can say that we are many to be aware of this problem, to love this heritage that conveys a whole history. It is touching to hear the testimonies of the owners who report the sensations they have using these elevators. One can also think of all the artisans who have used their know-how to make these magnificent objects designed to measure with bevelled mirrors and wooden doors. Yet, such lifts are destroyed every day that passes. There is therefore a real urgency and I am pleased that in this Parliament we are all mobilized to move forward. But I encourage you, Madam Minister, not to wait for proposals to be made to you because – I would remind you – technical solutions exist. It is simply necessary to find a way to reassure the SECTs so that they agree to take responsibility for validating these alternative solutions and issuing a certificate of conformity for the lifts that have been renovated with these techniques.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u41	Madam Minister, I believe that the debate shows that there is a broad concern about the preservation of that property. I see that concern in your reply. You're open to this. We can discuss who should take the next step. We still have two and a half years before the deadline. You can say that's a lot, but that's actually very little. If we have to think about the approach and the investment, then we have to start now. So I guess we don't have much time to waste. If we all agree that we need to find a solution, then the steps must come from both sides. I think it would be good if the different parties grew together. It would be a pity to know the historical lifts in the future only from old films about Paris and New York. This is the first time that the debate has taken place here. That will happen in the coming weeks and months. I believe that Parliament can also take steps to find solutions together in a healthy and constructive way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u42	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I sincerely hope that your political will will will turn into action because solutions exist. New technologies should not replace old ones at all-va. They must also be used to improve them, to secure them and to make them more sustainable, because, Madam Minister, when you see some images of modernization, it does not have the same stamp as before. You must therefore act to preserve as much as possible our rich cultural heritage. It is all the more important to stress that the field associations denounce an inspection system that is too rigid and too unilateral in its decisions. We believe that it could be more flexible. Finally, we wish to deplore, once again, legislation that serves the interests of major industrial groups, such as Schindler, when we know their fraudulent practices, to the detriment of a fabric of artisans who would be happy to renovate our historical jewels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u43	Speakers can join the topical debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u44	It is clear that everyone loves the historic lifts and everyone is convinced that they should be spared, including the Minister. But where does it go wrong? Is it a problem that the technical service no longer dares to declare the lifts safe? It is very bad that the alarm is only now being sounded, while the problem has been known for so long. Everyone wants to keep the elevator, but perhaps they do not have the budget to invest in adjustments or they do not want to. Why are there no proposals? They are needed if they are to be tested. Then one can also make progress. I do not understand why we would now ask for the deadline to be postponed if we have not even tabled a proposal. It is certainly worth pointing out today the urgency of the problem and calling on everyone to move forward in such a way that proposals can be tested. Apparently, elevators have been renovated, but now they don't do that anymore. Why is that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u45	For years I was ships of Patrimonium and Architectural Heritage. So I have a very big heart for architectural heritage. I'm sure it's in my intention to keep the elevators. Mrs Verhelst was quite right. There are indeed solutions, such as the placement of plexi. However, the solutions are either not beautiful, in the light of the fact that they are heritage, or they are aesthetically beautiful, but at the same time very expensive, which means that they are not chosen for this solution. If we are to be able to move forward, we must have solutions that will enable us to move forward. I will consult with colleagues from the regions responsible for heritage. We'll try to warm everyone up. A period of two and a half years is not long, but the deadlines simply slide backwards without looking for solutions, is also not wise. If something happens to such an elevator, Members will undoubtedly come and ask questions about the safety of these lifts. So we have to work together, take initiative together. I'll do the same. I will call on my colleagues and the relevant patrimony associations to re-record the file and see where we can land. Finally, I would like to thank you for the constructive debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u46	Madam Minister, between awarding a public contract and carrying it out, there is often a considerable period of time. Construction companies are almost always confronted with a price revision formula. Those price revision formulas contain two indices. With the S-index, the evolution of an average hourly wage is measured. The I-index measures the evolution of most materials and raw materials used by construction companies. The recent decline in these two indices has therefore led to a negative price review. At present, a negative price revision of an average of 3% applies. The negative price revisions are mainly due to the strongly declining I-index, which is outdated. Modernisation is under way, but it has not yet been completed. A further negative revision of more than 15% is expected by summer, while material costs would have fallen by only a few percent, as was the case during the 2008 crisis. Many contractors who already had problems due to the corona crisis now fear to get into even more trouble with a further reduction through the price review formula. Madam Minister, is there any provision for a revision of the I index so that it is more up-to-date? If so, what is the state of play? In corona times, it is also important that public contracts are paid on time. In what period are construction companies now paid by the federal government for the execution of public contracts? What is the evolution of this term?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u47	Mrs Verhelst, thank you for your question, which consists of two parts: the Mercuriale and the payment of invoices. This dossier has been on the table of my predecessors and of the FPS Economy for a very long time. For ten years now, the Belgian I index has been changed in the context of the prices of building materials in the construction sector. Ever since I was in this chair and since I was often addressed as ships responsible for heritage and buildings, there has been a new dynamic in my policy cell, in the FPS and in the sector. We look at the slopes through which we can come to a solution. In this file, the Netherlands was our guide country, where the price evolution is more of a constant. We're with us with big peaks. We have therefore based our exercise on how this is handled in the Netherlands. We are now looking at the different elements of and the weight in the hive, because that's what it's about in the end. That's going the right way. My policy cell is also working very intensely on this. We're waiting for the final exercises. It is mainly about public procurement because it is standard. At some point we have old and new public contracts or price provisions in old contracts. How will that be dealt with? How will we link this new index to the old one? Will it be applied to new public procurement contracts which may run for years or will we also break into existing contracts? There, too, we are legally assessing what our basis is. This consultation is very constructive. If this worked out, it'd be a unique thing, after ten years. We are trying this month to see how we can do this. We proposed 1 August for ourselves. We are very close to an agreement and it is only about the application and the modalities for existing and new contracts. The sector is asking me not to make any negative price revisions. This is more difficult because we are breaking into certain contractual commitments that have been entered into, but I think we need to look at how we can apply this new index as soon as possible in existing contracts. That's important. We do not yet know what the next figure will be. You say this will be negative. In June we had a figure for the first time, which shows that the decline is slowing down, but that of course has a lot to do with cement prices and so on. You know the sector much better than I do. We are fully engaged in this and hope to have a breakthrough in the short term. We have had several discussions on this subject this week, including with the sector. With regard to invoices and the latest figures, this works through the FEDCOM accounting system, which is used by federal and programmatic administrations, including administrative services with accounting autonomy, the Ministry of Defence and the Federal Police. We see that there was generally and on average paid on 20 days, so well within the statutory payment period of 30 days. At the Ministerial Councils of 6 and 20 March, a decision was taken in the framework of the COOVID-19 measures to ensure that this progress was made as quickly as possible. For example, we see that for the month of May we are on an average of 17 days. So we get the figure down, which is good news. As the Buildings Directorate is not currently using FEDCOM's system, no figures are available. But with the additional measures that have been taken, I can tell you that payments from all other public administrations are currently well below the 30-day period, particularly on average 17. Those are the latest figures I have.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u48	Thank you for the information. It's very nice to hear that there's been a lot of hard work. However, I would like to make a suggestion in connection with the negative review, to include an exception in these dossiers for a certain period of time. I can't name them myself because I'm not a contractor. I can't testify about this myself, but I do think it's important that we find a middle ground somewhere, because it's obvious that there's been a mistake in the story. That is why perhaps a temporary measure could be introduced? I'm impressed with the payment period, but I'm not surprised that the Buildings Control doesn't give me any figures, which disappoints me. So there is a system that does not work properly, so there is no clear accounting, as expected from an entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament 55006537C by Mrs Depoorter is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u50	Mrs Depraetere, according to the analyses provided by the FPS Economy, the charging of a corona supplement is not prohibited in itself. However, the undertaking that does so must apply the rules of the Code of Economic Law on display of prices. You refer to the provisions on abnormal profit. However, it is not enough for a company unilaterally to decide on a sudden price increase in order to be able to discuss it. The amount of the corona bonus will certainly have to be substantial. Since the outbreak of the corona pandemic, the Economic Inspectorate has been particularly attentive to all kinds of abuses that appear in that context and systematically analyzes every report of them. If deemed necessary, action shall be taken and an investigation shall be initiated. Through the hotline, 254 notifications related to the indication of prices were received, in particular on the total price, the maximum price and the abnormal profit. It is not possible to determine exactly whether they were related to a corona supplement. A total of 411 investigations were opened, of which 272 were initiated on their own initiative, which is not small. In 2020, reports were received through the hotline 191 on traders who requested additional charges for payment by bank or credit card under the COOVID-19 pandemic. In each case, consumers state explicitly in their reports that they wanted to pay with the bank card themselves for safety and hygiene reasons. In this respect, 10 investigations have also been opened to date and 8 minutes of warning have been initiated for an infringement of Article VII.30 (3) of the Code of Economic Law, which prohibits the charging of a surcharge. A surcharge can be charged in itself, but only under certain conditions. For example, the surcharge must always be displayed. It must be either in the total price or, for example, when replacing tyres, the supplement is added as an additional amount, it must also be disclosed or indicated that the surcharge will be charged. Of course, the supplement must also be proportionate. This is why abnormals or usury prices also occur. The figures of the hotline and of the FPS Economy also show that abnormalities are effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u51	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. A number of conditions must indeed be met. If the price increase is indicated in advance, it may be. However, the consumer will not always be aware of it and perhaps even the company will not always be aware of it. It goes without saying that quite a lot of reports have been received. In any case, it is a good thing that the Economic Inspectorate is also carrying out an investigation on its own initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u52	Mrs Depraetere, we have a lot of questions about it. When a hairdresser raises his prices by 3 euros tomorrow, that is possible. Those prices aren't fixed. There is freedom of pricing in this area. So he can do that perfectly. He can now charge 3 euros more for corona measures, because he had to invest extra, but he has to let his customers know. He's got to post that right. That is the essence for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u53	Madam Secretary, it's nice to see you again. We were good colleagues in the Health Committee. I am asking this question not only as a Member of Parliament but also as a vessel responsible for markets in the city of Herentals. I tabled my question in May and it is now dated, in the sense that we are very happy that the limit on the number of stalls has been lifted. However, I would like to return to that point, which is why I have explicitly retained my question. Suppose we go back to a reduction, then we can bring back the scenario we had in Herentals. We had a plan to split the market into two pieces of 50 stalls each. To our surprise, our governor did not approve of this, but we saw that this was approved in other provinces. I would have liked to have clarified that. What exactly was the purpose of that limitation to 50 stalls? Suppose we should go back to a restriction, is it possible to split a market into two pieces of 50 stalls? However, I would like to say that this case makes it a little clear that the legislation was not always very clear to the local authorities. For example, we have experienced in Herentals that with fewer stalls but a full offer there were more people per stall, because people really come to the market to buy a particular product. By the way, our market is one of the most popular in the region. When the limitation was lifted and there were more stalls again, we saw that we could spread the people much better. We are therefore looking forward to the completion of our market, with about 130 fixed stalls alone. When I look back, I also wonder why the limit of 50 stalls was lifted so late. It was really disproportionate to other measures and created an unfair situation and competition. It wasn't necessary, I mentioned the example. So I wanted to know the ratio behind it. I also hope that you will bear this in mind if there are any further measures or flares. Why did the ministerial decision come so late? Last week, the good news finally came that this limit to 50 stalls would be lifted. We had to wait until yesterday for the ministerial decision. We, as local government, have worked twice and were therefore ready for all scenarios, as with the previous changes. However, market stallers must be able to prepare themselves. For them, the call came very late. Our market takes place on Fridays, but I wonder what happens to markets on Wednesdays and Thursdays. We're missing opportunities there anyway. The nuisance premium is now also dropped. It is then very sad and just unfair to the market stallers. Is it possible to communicate earlier in the future, to come up with a ministerial decision earlier and to give information to the municipalities, so that they can get ready to store all the stalls and guarantee the livelihoods for this group back?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u54	Since 8 June, municipal authorities have been able to allow the organisation of the markets, subject to the conditions laid down in Article 1 to which you refer. The Ministerial Decision of 23 March does not prohibit the splitting up of a market and organising it in places other than the usual, provided that the market has a maximum of 50 stalls and that the number of visitors admitted to the market is one visitor per one and a half meter at the stalls. Access to markets is organised in such a way as to ensure respect for the rules of social distancing, as well as the appropriate prevention measures at least equivalent to the generic guide to the opening of commercial matters related to COVID-19, to be found on the website of the FPS Economy. The governors are also responsible for police matters and the enforcement of federal and federated legislation. They may decide that the situation on the spot or the proposed method of organisation does not allow the reopening of a market under the conditions mentioned above. Mrs. Van Camp, the judgment of the governor's decisions is not within my jurisdiction. However, I have been involved in both ministerial decisions and in the decisions of the National Security Council. This was very sensitive to the virologists. They saw the people on the markets as very threatening in the context of the evolution of COVID-19. People are close together, it's often about fresh food, there's a lot of talk, there's the market's own dynamics. Therefore, mouth masks were imposed on the market stallers and were not allowed to be eaten or drunk on the market. Food may be purchased on the market, but not consumed. In addition, it would be counted. We also felt very clearly that at some point there was an imbalance that could no longer be explained. In commercial centres and shopping streets much more and people could again take tourist trips to the sea and walk on the dike, visit shopping streets, but the markets were still subject to that limitation of 50 stalls. The choice of food or non-food and which stalls were allowed, we have always left to the local authorities. Of course, that 50 was a limit imposed in consultation with the virologists. First it was 30, then 60 and then 50 again. You are talking about 100 or 150 stalls, but there are also markets with several hundred stalls and people were afraid to let them continue. As of today, the number of stalls is no longer limited. You can also eat and drink according to the rules used in the catering industry. The only thing we are asking for is to do crowdcontrol and to monitor the distance of one and a half meters per person. Certain concentrations are indeed possible, but it is intended that the towns and municipalities that prevent concentrations and ensure that there are no long queues at the fish stall and the vegetable stand and that the distance of one and a half metres is respected. Why is this late? You know the dynamics of a ministerial decision. We made the decision on Wednesday. From Thursday and Friday the debate and the writing of the ministerial decision began, together with the regions. It was not the market debate that took a lot of time, but it was about events and other aspects. I understand that you have problems with the fact that this has taken so long. We sat together with those responsible for the markets two weeks ago. They would have already received a new adapted protocol. Last week, even before the decision, there was a lot of information available to allow cities and municipalities to organise themselves for this week. The most important news today is that we can start. I believe that we can draw lessons from these measures with a view to a possible second wave.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u55	Thank you very much for your clarification. We agree on that. We don't understand the virologists very well. A market is ultimately the same as outdoor shopping and the virologists have indicated that there the risk is much lower. We also have a lot of confidence in our market rooms and our services to organise this in a very good way. We see that in our city, with all the counts and all the regulations, we are very much following the measures. I am also very pleased that you have clarified the fact that the two-time-fifty rule is in line with the spirit of the law. We can certainly use this if there is a second wave and new measures are to be imposed. We can also learn from this for the future. The most important thing is that the imbalance has now been eliminated and that we no longer have a limit on the number of stalls. I would also like to say that you understand that things are coming so late, that we are a little less. But I would like to give a compliment to our services to set up all the scenarios and ensure that our market in Herentals can be fully restored on Fridays and Sundays. We will watch and monitor that this can happen in safe conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u56	Madam Minister, a few months ago in the Netherlands a controversy arose about the double service costs Airbnb charges respectively to the landlord and the tenant at booked stays. On 9 March 2020, the Amsterdam court ruled that the charging of the service costs to both tenant and landlord is double-up. It would also be contrary to the law that a mediator should not ask both the tenant and the landlord for compensation. If that happens, the tenant is legally protected. The Dutch Consumers' Association wants Airbnb to adapt its terms for Dutch consumers, so that the tenants will no longer have to pay any service fees in the future. It is also demanded that consumers who have paid too much get their money back. Madam Secretary, what is the situation in Belgium? Has the FPS Economy received any complaints about this? Is the double charging of service costs also in breach of Belgian law? If so, was this contacted with Airbnb? Will measures be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u57	Mrs Van Bossuyt, the Economic Inspectorate has so far received no reports regarding Airbnb's double payment of service charges. The payment of service costs to both the tenant and the landlord under a rental contract, concluded via a platform as Airbnb, is not prohibited under Belgian law, provided that both the landlord and the tenant were clearly and intelligibly informed about the applicable service costs prior to the conclusion of the contract. Companies must always comply with their pre-contractual information obligations and must not engage in misleading commercial or market practices, as laid down in the Economic Law Code. If Airbnb works as a go-between in the rental of a property covered by the Housing Rental Act, Article 5b of that Act shall apply. Where appropriate, the clause laying down the costs of the rental mediation at the expense of the tenant shall not be held to be written. However, the issue has been regionalised in the Sixth State Reform. I have nevertheless asked my services to consider whether it is necessary to include in Belgian legislation a provision similar to the Dutch provision prohibiting practice. I am waiting for the answer and if necessary I will take the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u58	Madam Secretary, thank you for your proactive work. I assume you will keep us informed of the response of your services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Freilich's 55006858C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u60	Madam President, Minister, at the beginning of this year I asked you a question about the aggressive sales practices of energy suppliers. This was in response to a whole series of complaints about the way energy vendors tried to recruit customers in branches of certain retail chains. You indicated in your reply that a code of conduct with the energy sector had been drawn up two years ago and that the Economic Inspectorate would check in March whether that agreement was being complied with. Has the Economic Inspectorate's evaluation of this code of conduct been completed in the meantime? What were the main conclusions? On the basis of this evaluation will you impose additional legal obligations to protect the consumer from such aggressive and misleading practices? If so, will you consult Parliament in advance on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u61	Mrs Van Bossuyt, the Economic Inspectorate has completed its evaluation of the agreement "Consumer in the freed up electricity and gas market." To this end, a study was carried out by ten energy suppliers who are currently active in the residential market and who have signed the consumer agreement. The investigation consisted of two parts: a review of the specific provisions of Regulation (EC) No 26 in total applicable to the websites, and a survey of the application of the other verifiable provisions of the Code of Conduct (hereinafter referred to as "the Code of Conduct') 19 in total. Most of the deficiencies identified relate to the mandatory entries on the websites. No controlled energy supplier complied with all 26 provisions there. In some it is limited, in others the number of shortcomings is significant. The provisions which are least respected are the mandatory links to the tariff simulator of the regional regulators and the indication of the contact details of the federal ombudsdienst voor Energie. Direct access to the contract conditions for the different products is also not common to a number of suppliers. As far as compliance with the other commitments is concerned, according to the investigation, the situation is significantly better. Five deficiencies were identified with 4 suppliers. In the case of energy suppliers selling at a distance and selling outside the undertaking, procedures are provided for to ensure that those sales are carried out correctly. Those sales are an important means to bring about a change of supplier. However, in view of the notifications received by the Economic Inspectorate, it remains to be decided that the procedures are not always complied with. I asked the Economic Inspectorate to take the necessary action in this area, too, to ensure that suppliers comply fully with the consumer agreement. I have also asked that the problem of flat-rate flat-rate compensation be clarified in the light of the provisions of the energy laws, which prohibit cancellation fees. According to data from the investigation, the flat-rate flat-rate fee in some contracts amounts to EUR 180. Most of the practices covered by the consumer agreement are commercial practices. They are regulated by the European Unfair Commercial Practices Directive, which, as you know, aims at maximum harmonisation. The margin for Member States to act in a legal or regulatory manner is extremely limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I'm glad the evaluation happened. I hear you say that one of the major shortcomings or shortcomings identified by the evaluation is a link to the tariff simulator. It is very important that this is borne out by the investigation. This link is precisely a way of helping consumers to easily compare one supplier with another. It is therefore very good to point out that this link must be there. This only strengthens me in my belief that we should not always create new legislation for all kinds of things, but that it often amounts to effectively implementing the existing legislation and here, for example, the codes of conduct.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u63	Mrs Van Bossuyt, my administration works closely with customs on a daily basis for the control of product safety. The aim is to remove non-compliant products from the market or not to allow them on the European market. During the last few months, the focus was mainly on the mouth masks. I wrote Test Purchase on 2 March to give the FPS Economy full access to the research conducted on product safety. My records have received no response from Test Purchase. Therefore, it has not yet been able to contact the relevant online sales platforms. The Economic Inspectorate has raised the issue of large foreign sales platforms with the European Commission through the European Consumer Protection Cooperation Network (CPC). The Economic Regulation 2019/1020 on market surveillance and product conformity will apply from 21 July 2021. It will be ensured that control services have the supervisory powers provided for in this Regulation by that date. It is not known how many Belgian webshops use dropshipping, but it is an increasing practice. According to consumer law, the selling company is responsible for compliance with consumer law, conformity, right of withdrawal and guarantee. Thus, when selling via dropshipping, the consumer should be able to contact the Belgian seller on a Belgian web shop for the exercise of his consumer rights. Many web stores selling products related to COVID-19 use dropshipping. All kinds of delivery and quality problems frequently arose. The Economic Inspectorate took action in several Belgian files and also passed on files relating to foreign web stores to its European colleagues. It is often unclear who runs such web stores, because they do not provide identification data and use non-European online services. Following the CPC action on COVID-19 scams, the Inspection has also proposed this issue as a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u64	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. There is a great deal of European e-commerce regulation to protect consumers. It is also very good that these regulations exist, as this will give consumers the confidence to buy online as well. European quality standards should also apply to products purchased online. Thank you for taking the necessary steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u65	Madam Minister, I would like to ask you about the very difficult situation, and my words are weak, which taximen across the country are now experiencing, both in Brussels and in Wallonia and Flanders. In Brussels, they are also subject to competition from certain players from a totally deregulated economy. Unfortunate unfair competition has developed. You could have some leverage, Madam Minister, to restore not only a little balance but also some justice to those taximen who were severely affected by the coronavirus crisis. They are heavily impacted by increasingly difficult working conditions. In particular, I would like to ask you about the doubling of the rates charged by the Public Liability Insurance Tariff Office. As you know, taximen are finding it increasingly difficult to find private insurers or private insurers with reasonable prices. This is why they are reduced (we are talking about three out of five) to have to contact the Bureau of Fees. The Bureau de Tarification, which is basically a service of the State, has therefore doubled its tariffs. We went from a premium of €2,450 in civil liability to about €5,000. This represents an additional cost of more than 200 euros per month. Taximen who are already struggling to make ends meet because of a huge drop in customers and unfair competition from some players can no longer do so. Their work is becoming particularly difficult. Therefore, Madam Minister, since the number of claims has not increased, there is no reason to increase this premium as the Bureau of Tariffs does. So what do you intend to do to help this service? I consider, like other politicians abroad, particularly in France, that it is a service of general interest, not to say a public service, a service to the public. Because of this essential function, which he fulfils professionally, with controls and moral requirements, he deserves our support. That is why I would like to know what you intend to do to ask the Bureau of Pricing to reduce its prices so that these workers can work in good conditions, which are financially accessible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u66	Mr Laaouej, insurance subscriptions to the Auto Pricing Office represent only a very small proportion of the insurance market for taxis, i.e. only 1.9% of the number of motor vehicles registered as taxis with management for the registration of vehicles for 2019. I therefore assume that the vast majority find insurance in the market. For a risk for which there would be no insurance coverage in the market, it is always possible to turn to the Bureau de Tarification. On the other hand, a risk for which there is no insurance in the market is likely to have particular characteristics that justify a refusal of insurance or a high premium. It is therefore also logical to cover this risk at the Bureau de Tarification with a premium higher than the market level, which takes into account the increased risk of the sector concerned. But you're right, we don't need excessive tariffs. My firm had a meeting with the president of the taxi sector yesterday. It came out that we were going to ask Assuralia for information about the tariffs. We will then have a new meeting with the sector. The price may be higher than that of the market, but it must not be excessive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u67	Thank you, Madam Minister. I take note of the fact that you will continue discussions with Assuralia to examine the level of tariffs in the private sector. You will also continue the dialogue with the Bureau de Tarification to ensure that the rates are not too high. More generally, Madam Minister, you are in charge of the Economy. I would really like to say that the taxi sector is essential as it contributes to the dynamism of our metropolises. I am also thinking of rural areas where distances are sometimes long, elderly people, people with reduced mobility who regularly use taxis. This contributes to the vitality of our social and economic fabric. This sector requires support today. We have to give him back what he gives us. It is an area of general interest and we must live up to what it brings added value to our society. On the issue of insurance, but also on other issues, including the regulation of the economy, I really ask you to send positive signals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u68	Madam President, Madam Minister, when we interviewed the Minister of Defence a few days ago on this issue of the procurement for the supply of masks that we talked about a lot, he told us that it was not his department that drafted the specifications, but yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u69	We're at a ping-pong party.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u70	You're taking the words out of my mouth. So I'm waiting to see what you're gonna do with the ball. One of the serious and worrying problems is that these masks cannot be washed at 60°. Indeed, as indicated in the instructions for use, they can only be at 30°, which is in contradiction with all the firm recommendations, the WHO instructions, but also other bodies working on the quality control of masks. The change in the terms of reference consisting of replacing the word "requirement" with the word "recommendation" has taken place in your department. Minister, could you let me know when this amendment took place? Why? Who made this decision? Have any experts been consulted? Has this major change in the specifications taken place on the basis of external opinions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u71	Madam Minister, a Test Purchase test shows that four out of ten mouth masks on the market do not meet the quality standards. The substances masks that the government distributes through the pharmacists then score well again. The disposable comfort masks available in the supermarkets also passed the test. It is mainly the surgical masks that were purchased in the pharmacy that are absent, because only one in five examined were properly scored. Of the ten fabric masks that Test Purchase investigated, two did not meet that standard. In a third mask, the elastic bands were not properly mounted and the nasal bridge was loosened. The fabrics mouth masks of the federal government, which have been available in the pharmacies since 15 June, thus offer a guarantee of quality according to Test Purchase. Given the importance of mouth masks in the exit strategy, Test Purchase therefore calls for stricter rules and controls on manufacturers. For example, it wants the standards for comfort masks, which today apply as a pure recommendation, to be converted into an obligation. Madam Secretary, will you have the standards for comfort masks converted into an obligation, as Test Purchase requires? Failure to comply with the essential health and safety requirements constitutes an infringement of Article 5 of Regulation 2016/425 of 9 March 2016 on personal protective equipment. Does the FPS Economy actively carry out checks on this? What conclusions do your services draw? On the website of the FPS Economy I read that mouth masks should not carry a CE mark for the general public. It seems obvious to me that this cannot be done for home-made mouth masks, but would it not be good for the quality if masks sold were to be marked in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, I have received six questions on this subject. I therefore have an answer to those six questions. All the questions are intertwined. Only two Members have asked their question, but I will also answer the questions of those Members who are not present. Given the subject, I think that is important. The NBN document / DTD S 65-001:2020 is a technical document. That's very important. It does not have the status of a standard. The document is like a standard, although not mandatory, but it represents a state of the art to which buyers can refer in charge books or with which mask producers can demonstrate that they are placing safe products on the market. The first national specifications were available in France from 27 March 2020 but only in French and English. An equivalent Belgian document was not required, according to the National Bureau for Standardization (NBN). For this reason, the Office of Standardization, which is an autonomous body of public utility under my supervision and which is composed in accordance with the Act of 28 February 2013 of representatives of companies, trade unions, authorities and consumer organisations, established a technical commission whose first meeting took place on 20 April 2020. Working meetings were held daily between 21 and 24 April 2020 to discuss the content of the document.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u73	Standards are published at the end of a long process of standard development. Companies, governments and other stakeholders participate. For technical documents, these steps are shorter and simpler, but the parties concerned are the same. Standards are not legislative texts. Therefore, competent authorities, regions, cabinet staff or ministers are not consulted unless they are members of standardisation committees. In such cases, they participate on the same basis as other stakeholders. The following stakeholders were involved in the development of this technical document on mouth masks: Centexbel for technical expertise and the chairing of the technical committee, Sciensano, Febelsafe and Creamoda for technical expertise, the FPS Economy for market surveillance and product safety and the NBN for drafting and publishing the normative document. Other public authorities and/or Cabinets were not present. The calendar was next. The first version of this document was available on Friday 24 April on the NBN website free of charge on request. On 27 April, a meeting was held for the revision of the document, which required adjustments based on feedback from stakeholders and early users of the document. A second working meeting was held on 28 April and version 1.1 was available that evening on the NBN website. This document was drawn up in a very short time by the working group already mentioned, which was set up for this purpose within the Standards Office, and which thus includes the sector. When publishing the first version, it was found that there were some differences between the Belgian document and the French similar document and that the Belgian document did not entirely follow the advice of the Risk Management Group on masks. It was therefore decided by consensus that the Belgian document should be reviewed immediately, taking into account the French document and the opinion of the RMG. Thus, it was also avoided that conflicting messages would be given by different governments and federations. Among other things, the materials and maintenance instructions have been changed. The current wording of the maintenance instructions as a recommendation makes more sense. After all, one cannot impose the same maintenance instructions for all types of masks and all materials. It is up to the manufacturer to determine the maintenance instructions based on the properties of the substance used. The questions of whether substances may be ironed or resistant to high temperature washing, 90 degrees, are important elements in this. Finally, the use of soap is an important element. The modification of the document and the procurement by the Defence Department are completely separate. The fact that the change happened while a tender file was running is an unfortunate coincidence. It leads to suspicions that are not at all justified. Defence was not involved in the preparation or amendment of the NBN document. The document of Friday, on which Defence's invitation to tender was published on Monday, was amended on Tuesday or Wednesday, with the adapted technical characteristics of temperature, ironing and others. The fact that that publication fell between those two dates was unfortunate, but has no causal link. The defence tender, published on Monday, fell back on Friday's correct document. That was also important at the time. The FPS Economy was not associated with the purchase or control of the Minister of Defence's oral masks. I cannot therefore express myself, on the basis of my own file and my responsibility, with regard to the safety of these masks. I can only note that they meet the requirements of the NBN, that they are tested by independent laboratories and that the SPF Social Affairs concluded, with regard to the biocidal aspect, that "oral masks treated with the SILVADUR 930 anti-microbial product meet the requirements of the BRP (European regulation 528/2012 on biocidal products) and can therefore be placed on the Belgian market". I said at the beginning of my reply that standards are not mandatory, except for a few exceptions. That's the way it's supposed to stay. Standards form a consensus between interested parties, mainly from industry, on technical requirements relating to certain products. Standards complement regulation. The voluntary nature of standards makes it easier to adjust them if necessary and ensures that alternative innovative technological solutions for which there is no standard can be used. Several national technical documents have been published specifically for the comfort masks. Since last week there is also a European document. Even if the Belgian document were to be mandatory, we would still have to accept all other European national technical documents for the sake of mutual recognition principles, that is, the internal market. You will therefore understand that there is no point in introducing a national obligation at all. Comfort masks are not covered by the European Regulation 2016/425 on personal protective equipment. That is why they should not bear a CE marking. For comfort masks, therefore, no verification is carried out on the basis of this Regulation. I decide. The quality of the product is independent of whether the product bears a CE marking or not. The CE marking means that the product is in conformity with one or more European product regulations. It is not because a product is not covered by a specific regulation that the quality is therefore less good. Think for example of regular bikes, chairs or tables. These have no CE marking and are not known as products that cause major problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u74	Minister, thank you for your answers. I do not know if I understood correctly: this change between a requirement and a recommendation was made to be consistent with what was happening in France. Is that it? All right! This is somewhat surprising, because it would be the first time that we would go elsewhere to see the specifications, in comparison with what is happening at home. I don't know if that's the habit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u75	They were the first. They had a properly prepared technical document. Therefore, why draw up a new document if France has one that was acceptable to us. But that was the case. So I don't see why aligning with a document is a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u76	I'm not saying there's a problem, I'm saying it's an unfortunate coincidence about an explanation that was already underway. Although you consider the suspicions that this has generated to be unwarranted, it is not yet a month that this has, in any case, given rise to a whole kind of doubt about this change. It might have been appropriate to report it at that time. Moreover, the term "recommendation" is a rather strong term. When it comes to WHO, when it recommends, it does not give instructions to States. It can make recommendations, which are generally followed. But here, it seems that we have played on words to award a market to masks that could not be washed at 60°C, which has led to all sorts of questions, because this saga of masks has taken so many forms since all these months and all these weeks. But the population had always been told to "wash them at 60°C because it is at this temperature that the virus is killed". And all of a sudden, they say, "Finally, it's not very serious and it works at 30°C too." I continue to believe that some statements have not completely reassured the population. I hear that today, only two million of the 15 million masks have been distributed. That's a small proportion. For the future, such misunderstandings must be avoided. We must return to the much stricter notion of what a recommendation means at the international level. When a country such as Belgium, which is generally very attentive to international recommendations, must be able to follow them to the letter, especially in such sensitive situations and markets.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u77	Mr De Vriendt has arrived. He can still replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u78	Madam Minister, unfortunately I have not been able to put the question. I apologize for that. I was stuck in a working group where I couldn't leave sooner. However, I would like to thank you for the answer and to read it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u79	Madam Minister, you say that the CE marking should not necessarily be linked to quality.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u80	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u81	It does not necessarily mean that it is not quality, that is indeed something else. However, it is striking that there were mainly problems with the surgical mouth masks sold by the pharmacists. It could then be argued that pharmacists should only sell mouth masks which have an effective CE marking.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u82	They've checked a marker by the FAGG.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u83	Then I don't remember either. It is, of course, problematic, as people who buy mouth masks in the pharmacy assume that they are high quality. That should also be the case effectively, even in times when everything has to go quickly and this is not so obvious. After all, this is the least we can expect from sales in pharmacies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u84	Ms Depraetere, the investigation into distortions of competition in the security sector was opened by the Hearing Officer of the Belgian Competition Authority on 10 March 2020. The decision to open the investigation is based on serious indications of infringements of Article IV.1 of the Code of Economic Law and possibly also on Article 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The secret of the investigation does not allow further consideration to be given to these indications. The Belgian Competition Authority is independent in its investigations. The Authority indicates that the investigation will last one to two years. The effective duration of the research depends on its complexity and on the concrete elements that will emerge during the research. Finally, it is up to the Belgian Competition Authority to take a decision, except where the Auditorate would conclude a transaction with the undertaking concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u85	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer that the investigation will last one to two years. That is quite a long time, but as long as the investigation is under way, we cannot, of course, comment on it. We will certainly come back to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u86	Debates of the European Parliament 55007281C by Mrs Dierick is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u87	Mrs Van Bossuyt, I have taken note of the White paper on leveling the playing field as regards foreign grants proposed by the European Commission on 17 June 2020. The Commission has launched a public consultation on this subject which will run until 23 September 2020. However, it is too early to make an assessment of the content. However, I can tell you that the European framework for the screening of foreign direct investment and this new initiative on foreign subsidies are complementary, as both have different objectives. The European FDI screening tool provides a framework to investigate the potential security risks arising from foreign investment in critical sectors in the EU. The focus is on security and public order and is therefore not aimed at addressing distortions in the internal market caused by foreign subsidies. However, the European Commission's action plan on foreign grants focuses on these possible distortions and is not limited to critical assets and is not necessarily linked to investment. A first quick reading of the white paper shows that there would be an opportunity to initiate parallel procedures if a foreign direct investment took the form of an acquisition facilitated by a foreign grant and would give rise to security and public order concerns. My administration will continue to monitor the Commission's action plan and the possible legislative proposals that the Commission will put forward in the future. As regards the state of play of the screening instrument, this draft law and the cooperation agreement is currently under discussion in an interfederal working group with the regions and communities. Belgium is obliged to take action from this European context. I am therefore convinced that, from a national point of view, we have an instrument here in the context of an investigation into potential security risks to our open economy. I would, however, like to minimise any administrative burden on companies and remain in line with the procedures already imposed or still to be imposed by the neighbouring countries. The Netherlands is currently drafting similar legislation. Furthermore, there is no explicit intention to put the open nature of our economy and our very international investment climate under pressure. The philosophy of the EU regulation is very clear and, as far as I am concerned, needs to be taken on board at Belgian level. It is not intended to hinder trade and investment. However, there is a need for an instrument to protect our public order and security from potential threats.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u88	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. This is indeed still at a very preliminary stage, but I think it is very important to keep a close eye on these issues. In these corona times we must avoid our crown jewels from companies being taken over by foreign, non-European companies. If you say that we must reduce the administrative burden on our companies as much as possible, you will certainly find a supporter in us. For me, that was also a stick horse in the European Parliament: cut the red tape. I think we should be careful about this, but I believe that we can all support these plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u89	Madam Minister, the COVID-19 measures have a very big impact on all of us. The federal, Flemish, municipal and even sectoral restrictions imposed may result in our agreements not being implemented or not being implemented in time. Anyone may have to deal with a co-contractor who does not carry out his or her commitment in good time. Anyone can also be a potential misapprehensionist. An agreement may contain a force majeure clause, but it is not so clear whether COOVID-19 is covered. The policy holder must check whether the COVID-19 virus or the COVID-19 measures are covered and what the agreement determines. If an agreement does not contain a force majeure clause or does not include the virus or the measures, the question arises as to whether there is force majeure under ordinary law. We need to look at the specific circumstances, which means that there is a great deal of uncertainty and room for different interpretations. It is therefore necessary to know whether a pandemic, such as the COVID-19 virus, is an exclusion ground, for example for hospitalisation insurance, voluntary insurance or insurance guaranteed income for self-employed persons. Can insurance call in the pandemic in order not to meet their contractual obligations, for example for hospitalisation insurance? Were you already in contact with the insurance sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u90	Hospitalisation insurance does not exclude pandemics. Persons who are hospitalised because of COVID-19 will be reimbursed according to the terms of the insurance contract. Also insurance guaranteed income does not include exclusion for pandemic. If a person is unfit for work, the insured income will intervene in accordance with the conditions of the insurance contract. Finally, voluntary insurance generally does not exclude pandemics. If voluntary insurance covers diseases incurred as a result of voluntary work, the compensation in the case of COVID-19 shall be paid in accordance with the conditions of the insurance contract. The insurers cannot therefore rely on force majeure not to intervene. I myself and my cabinet have regular discussions with the insurance sector, in particular on the impact of COOVID-19 on the insurance sector and the insured.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u91	Thank you, Minister, for a brief and clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u92	Debates of the European Parliament 55007391C) by Mr Calvo and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Mr Bihet's 55007482C is converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u93	Mr President, those questions are in fact 90% identical to Question No 55007291C by Mrs Van Bossuyt on the hostile takeovers. This is about the same thing, which is about screening foreign investments. My answer is 80 % of the same. We were a little surprised that those questions weren't merged. Those Members who have not asked their question can find the elements of the answer in that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u94	I only got the diary. Mr Calvo and Monsieur Bihet had asked for their questions to be converted into written questions, and I will give them the same. It will be inserted into the system and the system will ensure that it gets there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u95	Minister, the coronavirus crisis has had and continues to have a significant impact on the price of consumer goods in our supermarkets. The work of Test-Achats, which aims to analyse the evolution of current prices with those before the crisis, unfortunately attests to this trend. The results are unanswered. With a few exceptions, such as at Delhaize, product prices are more expensive now than they were before the crisis. For example, Colruyt saw its prices increase by 5% compared to the beginning of March. For Carrefour, that's 3.3%. For Albert Heijn and Cora, that's 1.8% and for Aldi, that's 0.7% more. The whole, while the earnings of the workers are constantly decreasing. In fact, briefly, there is temporary unemployment with a loss of income of at least 30%, there are quarantines within the framework of tracing which represents a further loss of income, there is the risk of seeing its various advantages as the annual premium and the end-of-year premium partly affected by temporary unemployment and there is obviously the risk of redundancies and massive corporate bankruptcies in the coming weeks and months. So my questions are as follows. In the face of a price curve that struggles to return to a normal level, what are you going to do to prevent citizens from experiencing a new wave of impoverishment? Will you finally look at the introduction of a ceiling for basic necessities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u96	Mr D'Amico, thank you for your question. First of all, I would like to stress that total inflation in Belgium is very low at the moment. In its first quarterly report 2020 published in May, the Price Observatory found that total inflation in Belgium decreased throughout the first quarter to 0.4% in March. The same trend can be observed in neighbouring countries. According to the latest available data, total inflation even became negative in Belgium in May: -0.2%. This decline was mainly caused by the acceleration of the rate of decline in energy prices, with a negative inflation in May of 18.9%. This year-long decline in energy prices is due to the global health crisis, which has significantly affected oil demand. Food prices increased by an average of 1.7 per cent between March and April. This is well below the 5% advanced in some media. The prohibition on promotion has had an impact on the prices of commonly purchased products. However, other factors have also contributed to price increases since the beginning of the year. After relatively low inflation in 2019, a predictable upward trend in prices has been felt for many food and non-food consumer products, and has continued in recent weeks; weather conditions and seasonal factors also play a role in this price increase. It should be noted that food prices stabilized between April and May. As part of the Economic Risk Management Group's work, Statbel and the SPF Economy continue to monitor the weekly evolution of consumer prices for food and other common product groups. At present, there is no excessive price increase. In view of the above, there is no need to impose maximum prices.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u97	I had quoted in the preamble the report recently produced by Test-Achats and it was to this report that I referred to the increase in prices. You're telling me it's not exactly that! Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u98	Mrs de Laveleye has stated that her question No. 55007420C may be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u99	Mr.President, Madam Minister, in 2017, the FSMA had made dismaying and even dismaying observations with regard to the distribution of certain insurance products related to consumer credit. The issue was very high fees for sellers; with an insurer, fees and commissions accounted for more than 70% of the premiums paid. There was also talk of significant profits for insurers – in the order of 35% of the premium amount – for a very limited usefulness for consumers, since consumers were only compensated in 0.24% of the contracts under way. According to the FSMA, which knows how to handle euphemism, "these high remunerations may lead sellers of these insurances to not sufficiently place the interest of customers at the centre of their concerns". Other reports dated 21 August 2017 on the monitoring of compliance with due diligence rules with insurance companies and brokers, as well as complaints by a debt mediator, can also be cited. These various documents tend to show that the current legislation is not sufficiently complied with. FSMA's mission is to control financial intermediaries (insurance brokers, banking agents, etc.) as well as products sold by banks, insurance companies and financial intermediaries, but also to ensure that the law is enforced. Following the financial crisis, FSMA was given additional powers in the area of consumer protection. Minister, what did the FSMA do with these findings and complaints? Did it conduct further more specific inspections of outstanding balance insurance with certain insurers or brokers? If so, what follow-ups were reserved for them? Did she reprimand, punish some of them? If so, who, in what way and for what facts? What action has been taken on consumer complaints?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u100	Mr President, Mr Prévot, it is important first of all to point out that the FSMA's mission is to monitor insurance products, but it is not competent to intervene in the event of a customer's complaint against an insurance company or an insurance intermediary. A consumer who has a specific complaint may apply to the Insurance Ombudsman. However, FSMA may use the information it receives through questions or complaints as part of its controls. However, it is not competent to express itself on cover and exclusions stipulated in insurance contracts. In 2017, FSMA reviewed the terms and conditions and the advertising of outstanding balance insurance sold with consumer credit. From this survey, it has been found that serious questions may arise about the usefulness of this type of product. In addition, the communication on the amounts of commissions paid to intermediaries placing the products is rarely transparent, although in some cases these commissions represent more than half of the premiums paid by policyholders. Contract and advertising documents were not always prepared in accordance with the regulations in force. The controlled companies have had to adapt their documents to the regulations in question and have made this adaptation. A press release was issued warning the public of the limited usefulness of these products. Under section 288 of the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014, a company is required to assess whether a product and its characteristics still meet the needs of the target market. FSMA intends to develop a more general control plan to monitor compliance with the "government" product rules mentioned. In addition to these rules on insurance products, rules of conduct apply also to insurance undertakings and insurance intermediaries. These rules provide consumers with additional protection in addition to those relating to insurance products. In principle, insurance distributors are free to determine their compensation on a contractual basis, provided that the legal provisions are complied with. However, insurance distributors must always commit themselves fairly, equitably and professionally to the interests of their customers when distributing insurance. In addition, those who develop products must comply with the rules on product validation processes and, among other things, comply with obligations to prevent conflicts of interest. The client must also be informed of the type of compensation received by the insurance intermediary. In addition, insurance distributors must provide information to their customers on costs and expenses prior to the conclusion of a contract and at each maturity. In conclusion, if an insurance policyholder finds that the rules mentioned have not been complied with and that he has suffered damage, he may, as indicated, lodge a complaint with the Insurance Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u101	Minister, thank you for your full response and clarification on the mission of the FSMA. With regard to outstanding balance insurance, I hear your common sense and I hope that other people, including your government partners, also want more transparency and appropriate legislation for this product. I myself have tabled a text in this committee which has not received the necessary support as it stands, while I remain convinced that legislation on these products must be adapted, the usefulness of which is sometimes limited, in your terms, and whose consumers are not sufficiently informed. I hope that your common sense will be able to percolate to other levels and to your partners, and that this text can be supported if it returns to the benches of this committee in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u102	Mrs Van Bossuyt, yesterday I also read the media report which is probably the basis of your question. The FPS Economy confirms to me that the number of notifications related to e-commerce has increased considerably through the hotline. The non-or late delivery is often discussed. We know that the corona pandemic and the closure of physical shops has led many consumers to more purchases via web shops and that many consumers who had never bought online have now made the switch. The Ombudsman shall not disclose individual information on undertakings. I can understand, however, that the companies were not prepared for the much larger purchase volumes. As far as supplies to suppliers and transport companies are concerned, the coronapandemic has also caused problems. I believe that we should have some understanding for that. However, it cannot be accepted that the consumer will not be reimbursed within the time limit laid down by law if the sale is cancelled or revoked. The increase may also partly be explained by an increasing awareness of the Ombudsman for Trade, which started in May 2017. The number of companies accepting its mediation is also increasing. My cabinet will also organise a consultation with the Ombudsman for Trade in order to examine the effective problems and see how best to deal with them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u103	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. You are indeed saying that corona can certainly be one of the causes of the increase in the number of complaints. However, we must not place the cause solely on corona. The Ombudsman's increased awareness of trade will also have a part to do with it. It is good that consumers find their way to this Ombudsman. Measuring is knowing. If we receive complaints, something can be done about them. Thank you for keeping a close eye on the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u104	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, in your question there are several aspects, including the late delivery and late repayment, but you also refer in your question to certain swimming pools, trampolines and fitness equipment, if I am not mistaken. Certain websites are created, such as Fit Basic and not Basic Fit, which gives consumers a sense of confidence. Last week, from nine Dutch websites, seven or eight websites were removed from the FOD Economy offline, immediately after contact with the Dutch authorities. The problem is that the Dutch authorities also act, but that a lot of such websites are also operational from far exotic places. The moment they are traced, there are already other products. I now hear that electric bikes are now in the boom. They are now often offered. Before making such important and expensive purchases, it is important to also look for the ratings and check whether a particular website is reliable. This provides more security guarantees when purchasing on e-platforms.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u105	Madam Secretary, I fully agree with you that it is a shared responsibility. The consumer also bears part of the responsibility. If one can buy an electric bicycle for 100 euros, it is too good to be true and one has to ask questions. So this is certainly a shared responsibility. I think that the government should also do everything possible to remove the abuses that exist from the system, but I hear that you are certainly doing so, for which I thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u106	Mr President, Madam Minister, according to a study conducted by a mobile bank, 73% of Belgians have already received unexpected banking fees. One third (32%) of respondents believe that their bank charges unjustified fees. More than 7 out of 10 Belgians denounce the lack of transparency in the pricing policy of the majority of traditional banks. Current account fees (51%), ATM fees (39%) and credit card fees (41%) were cited as the three most common fees. Moreover, Belgians feel that banking is too complex and too often accompanied by a jargon that they do not understand. Finally, the survey shows that the removal of hidden costs is a priority for consumers. Madam Minister, as this survey shows, most Belgian consumers are calling for the removal of these hidden costs at the level of the banking sector. Do you intend to take further initiatives in this direction in the coming weeks? If so, can you tell us more?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u107	Mr President, Mr Prévot, the current legislation imposes the greatest transparency on banks as to the costs they charge consumers. Strengthening this transparency has been one of the objectives of the last two EU reforms in this area, namely the CSA and PSD2 Directives. There is a pre-contractual information obligation. The bank must provide the consumer, long before entering into a framework contract with the consumer for a payment account, with all the information relating to the charges it applies for that account. The costs which are thus communicated to the consumer are communicated by means of a tariff information document harmonised at European level. This document includes all user fees for the main services related to a payment account. These include charges related to the maintenance of a payment account, charges related to the provision of a credit or debit card, and charges related to withdrawals or transfers. There is also an obligation to provide information during the contract. Banks must provide the consumer, at least once a year and free of charge, with a statement of costs. This fee statement is also a harmonised European model. It covers all charges related to the payment account that are due by the consumer. The law also provides that customers must be informed of the new rates at least two months before they come into force. They must then be able to close their account free of charge. Naturally, I remain attentive to all developments in the sector and will not fail to make use of the prerogatives which are mine in case of necessity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-01-55-commissie-ic225x.u108	Madam Minister, thank you for reminding us of our legislative framework – with legislation and transparency coming from European directives. I hear your will to remain attentive. I really invite you to do so because I assure you that the testimony from the industry and consumers shows us that there are still a lot of hidden costs involved and that impact household budgets. You have also recalled the information obligations of the banking sector but it is sometimes written in a complicated vocabulary for some people and therefore not all is understandable. These people do not always have the opportunity to know that they can terminate their account free of charge. There is also work to disseminate the information to be done so that consumers can maintain or not maintain the product, but with full knowledge and knowledge.
