ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u1	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for taking the time to answer our questions and mine in particular. Minister, in ten years, the number of banking agencies has decreased by about 40%. We had the opportunity to discuss this in greater detail in plenary last week. Over the past three years, approximately 900 vending machines have disappeared from the country. This poses problems for all citizens, especially the elderly and those who do not have access to digital technology, not to mention the impact on the commercial fabric of deserted municipalities. Here I will give the example of Spriont in the province of Liège. Banking agencies have deserted its territory in a few years. Four banks have disappeared in two years. The last one, located in the centre of Spriont, stopped its activities last October. The municipality has around 15,000 inhabitants, nearly 3,000 of whom are over the age of 65 – a percentage of the population that is not negligible. It is an average municipality in the region of Liège. One hundred and thirty shops (food, decoration, bakery, pharmacy, etc.) are established throughout the territory, of which thirty in the centre of Spriont alone, this centre completely deserted by the banking agencies. For all these people, all these traders, these independents, banking desertification is a real problem. Mr Minister, I know that solutions are being sought on the bpost side, and I welcome them, through its management contract (i.e. ultimately state intervention to remedy market failures). It is therefore the State which intervenes financially through bpost and the municipalities are also often asked, which obviously does not fit into the system. But it is also important to mobilize traditional, commercial banks and remind them of their societal responsibility. I believe that the mission of providing the population with a minimum presence of ticket distributors throughout the Kingdom is for all banks. So my questions are as follows: Are you aware of the particular situation in the municipality of Spriont? Can possible solutions be considered to address the problems that arise there? Beyond that, the government agreement provides for measures to facilitate access to banking services for vulnerable groups, in particular the elderly, persons with disabilities or those excluded from the digital sector; can this provide an entry point to confront this problem of bank desertification with courage and determination?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u2	Mr President, thank you for your question. It seems to me that the case of Spriment is unfortunately not a unique case, as you have mentioned, both in Wallonia and throughout Belgium. It is well known that the decline in the number of banking agencies is a clear trend throughout the European Union, and this is also the case in Belgium and its different regions. At present, ATMs are often attached to banking agencies, resulting in a shortage of equipment in some places and an overabundance of them. As you know - we had the opportunity to discuss this in plenary last week - Batopin (Belgian ATM Optimization Initiative) brings together the four major banks, namely Belfius, BNP Paribas Fortis, ING and KBC, and is now the new company responsible for setting up and managing a new common network of ATMs. These banks have set themselves the goal of giving 95 per cent of the population access to a distributor within a radius of up to 5 km. It should be noted that these distributors will no longer be linked to a specific bank and will also be placed outside banking agencies. The first aircraft are expected to be operational by mid-2021, while the subsequent aircraft will be gradually deployed in the Territory. There is also the JoFiCo project which for the moment does not go as far as the Batopin project. JoFiCo consists of five banks: Crelan, Argenta, Axa Bank, VDK Bank and bpost bank. These five banks wanted to conclude a service contract with a third party, which will be responsible for the maintenance and placement of distributors in the various locations held throughout the territory. Of course, the practical implementation of these two projects will be closely monitored by the government and myself. As I have mentioned in response to your question in plenary, I believe that these initiatives, if interesting, are not sufficient to address the digital divide. As we know, banking services are in a phase of growing digitisation and, for the government as for myself, the financial and banking sector must provide a minimum service in terms of access to ATMs throughout the national territory. As I have already mentioned, the government will also work on this, as provided for in the government agreement. Indeed, I intend to take measures to protect the most vulnerable people, especially people, who are too often excluded from the digitalisation process in general and from the process of bank digitisation in particular. This objective will be a priority project by 2021. I therefore intend to set up a universal banking service, which would link several compulsory services to payment accounts. This is one of the priorities for the coming year, both for my department and for the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u3	Mr. Chairman, I would like to express my deep satisfaction with the minister's response, which was of quality and comprehensive. You have demonstrated, Minister, your desire and ambition to go further in the service of the community, whether in rural or urban areas. For example, in Brussels between 2017 and 2018, 80 agencies closed. So, even in big cities, there are agency closures. This is therefore not just about rural areas. As far as Spriont is concerned, as I have told you, almost 19% of the population can be excluded overnight from a basic banking service. I also note with satisfaction the government's intention to call on the banking sector and, more than that, to take the ad hoc measures to compel it to assume its responsibilities and not to report them to the State through bpost or through the municipalities. So thank you and good courage in this hard work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u4	Minister, after two years of bitter negotiations, the European institutions finally approved the Copyright Directive on 17 April 2019. The European Union has thus validated the principle of better remuneration for artists and press publishers from the traffic generated by their content on online platforms. This Directive on copyright and related rights in the digital single market must be transposed into national law by 7 June 2021 at the latest. As you pointed out in your general policy note, the directive is very comprehensive and covers a wide range of areas. These include exceptions to copyright, the protection of press publications with regard to online uses, the use of content protected by online platforms, and copyright law provisions. A wide-ranging consultation on the transposition of this Directive has already taken place in the Intellectual Property Council, an advisory body made up of experts and representatives of interested circles in intellectual property. The Council is attached to the SPF Economy and consists of two sections: "Industrial Property" and "Copyright and Neighboring Rights". On 19 June 2020, the latter section adopted an opinion on the transposition of Directive 2019/790 on copyright and related rights in the digital single market. In practical terms, the opinion is drawn up in accordance with the structure of the Directive. The purpose of the article concerned, the suggested method of transposition and the main points of discussion, as well as the various opinions put forward in the Council, are briefly indicated for each article of the article concerned. Minister, can you first tell me which organisations have participated in the work of the Section for Copyright and Neighboring Rights? How did they go? What action is planned to be taken? What timetable have you set for transposing the directive to come to fruition on 7 June? In your policy note, you also refer to the objective, in addition to transposing the directive, of being able to "take prompt and effective measures against copyright infringements committed on the Internet". Consultations and studies have obviously already been carried out in this context in Belgium. Can you tell us more and give us the snapshot of the situation? What objectives have you set in this regard? Is a work agenda planned? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u5	Member, thank you for your question. Indeed, the transposition of Directive 2019/790 on copyright and related rights in the digital single market has been discussed in the Copyright Section of the Intellectual Property Council. The appointment of the members of this section derives from the Royal Order of December 18, 2018. This section consists of twelve experts, academics and lawyers, eight representatives of the beneficiaries, namely management companies and producers, eight representatives of users, including the Belgian Federation of Enterprises and UNIZO, three representatives of the Communities and three representatives of consumers. As you mentioned, this transposition concerns a whole range of areas and themes. Between June 2019 and June 2020, we therefore organised a series of meetings and consultation meetings with the various stakeholders to try to reach proposals for transposition of the Directive on the basis of the opinions provided. I hope to be able (...) on the basis of the various opinions gathered so far and those which still have to reach me, and to make a synthesis of them. To be completely transparent with you and with Parliament (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u6	Minister, sometimes we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u7	Mr President, I propose to join you in the committee room. I'll be here in five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u8	We're waiting for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u9	Welcome to the committee room, Minister Dermagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u10	Mr President, Mr Prévot, I apologise again for the technical trouble and the setback that he caused. Perhaps I will not repeat the whole answer to Mr Prévot's question, but I confirm to him that there are indeed a number of issues related to the transposition of this directive, as Mr Prévot mentioned in his question. A large number of stakeholders were consulted and co-ordinated between June 2019 and June 2020 at various consultation meetings. On my part, there is a desire to bring to the table of Parliament around April or May - April is my preference - a bill that will take into account the various opinions received. In order to be very transparent with Parliament and its members, I immediately point out that it will not be possible to comply with the deadline for transposition of 7 June 2021, but, as I said, my real wish is for the law to be adopted in the first half of 2021. When I refer to the objective in addition to the transposition of the Directive to be able to take swift and effective measures against copyright infringements committed on the Internet, I refer to the incorporation into the draft transposition of a text which has been being drafted since 2012 and which is based on studies by the Centre for Research in Computer Science and Law (CRID) in Namur and ULg. It has been the subject of intensive consultations. This law facilitates the closure and blocking of access to certain sites by judicial means and also allows, by administrative means, the extension of judicial decisions to mirror sites that appear as soon as measures are taken against a particular site. An opinion of the ICC on this subject is also available on the SPF Economie website.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u11	Minister, I thank you for this two-step response, which I am fully satisfied with, because you know that this is a theme that I care about. In addition, the transposition of the European Copyright Directive is expected by the sector. Beyond the moment of the situation and your explanation of the contacts that have already been established since June, I will remember the arrival of this bill or, at the very least, the willingness to pass a law in the first half of 2021. This is, of course, excellent news, and I can only encourage you to continue in this direction. I will not fail to return to you, if any, when this law has come into being. Thank you, in any case, for your voluntarism and your willingness to reach this extremely important issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u12	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55010998C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u13	Minister, on 23 October, my proposal to introduce a basic banking service for enterprises was approved by the plenary session of the Chamber. Since many companies are waiting for this law to enter into force, I would like to ask you a few questions about the current state of affairs. Mr Minister, implementing the law still requires implementing decisions. For example, the law stipulates that the King must establish a basic banking office within the FPS Economy. What is the status of these implementing decisions? What implementing decisions are in preparation and when can we expect the CFCs? The Act will enter into force on the first day of the sixth month following its publication in the Belgian Official Journal. Will the implementing decisions be ready when the law comes into force? Finally, we know that a lot of companies are really waiting for this law to enter into force, because we are still getting a lot of emails with poignant stories. Have you had discussions with the banking sector in the meantime? If so, what arrangements were made to help these companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u14	Mrs Dierick, the implementing act which falls within my competence and which includes the compulsory action of the King is currently in the draft phase. My administration considers to what extent it is useful to include the King's optional action in the implementing act. The Law of 8 November 2020 introducing provisions on basic banking services for enterprises was published on 24 November 2020. The law will enter into force on 1 May 2021. It is planned to announce the royal decree by the date of entry into force. There has been no consultation with the banking sector, but consultation with the stakeholders concerned is certainly on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your feedback. I am pleased that the administration is working on implementing decisions. I have something to look forward to, because it is a beautiful birthday gift that this law will enter into force one day before my birthday. So we have perspective and hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u16	Mr Dierick, I'd like to join you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u17	Mr Minister, Mrs Matz has asked for her question No. 55011010C to be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u18	Mr President, Minister, I ask you this question at the request of the social real estate agency of the good city of Tournai, which, as you know, is managed by a coalition PS and Ecolo. In the context of the covid crisis, it had first been decided that private real estate agencies could no longer organise visits for the goods they offered. Since 17 November, this prohibition has been lifted provided that no person other than the potential tenant or buyer is in the property at the time of the visit. The real estate agent must therefore stand outside, which can still be understood in the context. What is less understandable, however, is that this condition in fact also prevents sellers or owners from being on the premises, in other words, at home. The latter are reluctant to visit their homes without being able to find themselves there, for reasons of theft which one can easily understand, real estate agencies organize more than visits to empty properties. This situation is a real obstacle to the entire real estate market and sows incomprehension among professionals. Indeed, the real estate offer is seen to be greatly reduced. This is all the more worrying when you think of people in need of emergency housing (cases of domestic violence, for example). That's why the city of Tournai called me in. However, it seems to me quite possible for a potential buyer or tenant to visit a property while maintaining the required physical distances with its occupant or opening the windows. Minister, with a view to the Consultation Committee of 18 December, in view of these difficulties identified by the professionals in the sector and by the Federation of Real Estate Agencies, do you intend to review the conditions surrounding the visits of real estate in order to allow the occupants to be present during the visits, incorporating specific health rules? I want to be clear, I am not asking you to let go of the mess in the light of the health situation; you have to think twice about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u19	Mr President, Mr Vicar, as you know, the ministerial decree of 28 November 2020 amending the ministerial decree of 28 October 2020 on emergency measures to limit the spread of coronavirus has defined all the measures applicable to the exercise of professional activities, in particular on the basis of consultations with representatives of the various sectors and with experts at the Corona police station. As the conditions surrounding visits to real estate have remained unchanged, the presence of occupants during visits to real estate is still not allowed. Visits to real estate by persons wishing to buy or rent are only possible if no other person is present at the time of the visit. I am not going to foreshadow decisions to be taken by the Conciliation Committee this Friday, but, as you mentioned, the situation is not improving but stagnating and is, this and there, increasingly worrying. I therefore think it is difficult to argue today for these measures to be relaxed, but I hear the various special cases that you have mentioned (particularly in relation to emergency situations) and I believe that these issues should be considered with maximum pragmatism, given the health situation in which we find ourselves. I will therefore not fail to bear in mind the examples that you have cited in the discussions that we will have in the Conciliation Committee in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answer. I expected no less, and I know that because of your social fiber, you will certainly be paying attention to this particular point. I thank you in advance for your work, which must not be easy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u21	Mr President, Minister, my question dates back to 27 November 2020. Meanwhile, a lot has already happened and explained in the field of travel. However, I would simply like to update the current arrangements and rules, so that it is also very clear to the consumer what should and should not be done during the Christmas holidays. Are there also agreements at European level on travel and consumer protection? Have we agreed on that? What's on the table right now? Finally, the travel sector is having a very difficult time. If any bankruptcies were to occur in the travel sector, the Guarantee Fund will of course intervene. Can you clarify whether that fund is sufficient to cover the large amount of vouchers? If that is not the case, what initiatives will you take? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Dierick, thank you for your question. With regard to travel advice, I would like to inform you that the answer to that question falls within the competence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs Sophie Wilmès. Consumer protection has already been fully regulated in the European Directive 2002/702 on package travel and in the law transposing it. An evaluation of this will be carried out in 2021, as laid down in the Directive. The impact of the outbreak of the covid pandemic on the travel sector and travellers will be discussed on that occasion. The year 2021 will indeed determine the survival of many tour operators and their insolvency protection. A working group, which has explored some slopes, should a worst case scenario take place in 2021, is currently looking into this. The aim I set out for the working group is to define a mechanism to ensure that all travellers can be reimbursed in the event of bankruptcy. As soon as a concrete initiative is decided, it will be communicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I understand that next year's review of European legislation is under way and that a working group is currently in the process. It is your intention to ensure that a mechanism is put in place to ensure that all travellers are reimbursed. I have not received an answer to the question as to whether the current Guarantee Fund is sufficiently rigid to cover the large amount of vouchers. Perhaps you can answer that, because that seems to me to be an essential question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u24	You will have to ask a new question, I think, Mrs Dierick.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u25	Mr Minister, since the corona crisis, we have been reading almost weekly reports of rising prices. I quote a few titles: "The corona crisis makes food more expensive than a year ago"; "Corona effect on supermarket prices: up to 6 % more expensive"; "Corona drives real estate prices up to: apartment 7 % more expensive, house more than 4 % more expensive." Another quote: "The prices of my raw materials have increased as a result of the coronavirus. Can I then adjust my prices?" These messages have never been taken from the sky. They are always based on specific separate investigations. It would, of course, be a good thing if there were a comprehensive study, examining the impact of the corona crisis on Belgian prices. Have you already commissioned the Prize Observatory to investigate the impact of the corona crisis on Belgian prices? In what areas has the corona crisis led to price increases? Does this confirm the messages of which I have quoted a few? Are there certain sectors that have been hit harder than others? If so, which one is it? If such a study is not yet available, will you instruct the Prize Observatory to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u26	Mrs Van Bossuyt, since the outbreak of the corona crisis, the Price Observatory has followed closely the evolution of consumer prices. In recent months, inflation in Belgium has been very low. In the third quarter of 2020 it was only 0.4%. This is mainly because energy prices are much lower than last year as a result of the economic crisis: 1.2% on an annual basis. Unprocessed foods such as fruit and vegetables, however, have experienced high inflation rates of 6,6%, partly due to less favourable climatic conditions. The inflation rate for processed food is the result of an upward trend observed since several quarters: 2.1 %. This seems to have relatively little to do with the health crisis, even though the ban on discounts during the lockdown period certainly had an upward effect on the prices of some products. Moreover, the price evolution recorded by certain media seems to be exaggerated. They do not take into account the importance of the different products in the consumer basket. The price monitoring by Statbel for food is done mainly on the basis of scan data from the supermarkets and according to scientifically based methods. For non-energy industrial products and services, inflation will be limited to 0.5 % and 1.3 % respectively in the third quarter of 2020. Overall, therefore, the impact of the pandemic on consumer price developments remains rather modest. The evolution of house prices is closely monitored by the National Bank of Belgium. According to official figures on Statbel's house prices, the median price of houses in open buildings has increased by 2.4 % and apartments have become 6% more expensive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. In the functioning of the free market, there is the law of supply and demand, but there are also underlying factors in our country that contribute to the often higher prices in our supermarkets than in neighbouring countries. In this context, I am thinking, for example, of the lack of flexibility in labour legislation, an element which should certainly be taken into account. We must make an urgent effort to adapt this legislation. I also heard you say that not all the messages that appear in the media are correct. It is precisely for this reason that I regret that you have not responded to my request that the Prize Observatory should carry out a general study on the evolution of prices as a result of the corona crisis. Such a study could, on the one hand, be a means of suppressing these messages and, on the other hand, allow us to determine where the problems might be. This could be a way of acting in a targeted way. So I'm gonna call on you to do a study like this anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u28	Mr President, Minister, I have another question about the increase in prices, in particular the increased transport costs for containers. I understand from various sources that there is a major problem with the import of containers due to the corona crisis, in particular with its pricing. Prices for the transport and import of containers would have doubled compared to precorona times. These increased prices would, of course, be a concrete consequence of disrupted routes and transits of container ships. There is a very high demand for shipping, but there is also a large number of empty containers that are still in circulation. Can you confirm these messages first and foremost? Is it true that the prices for shipping and import of containers have increased enormously? If so, what impact will the increased transport costs, in your view, have on product prices and, consequently, on consumer prices?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, thank you for your question. There are no official statistics to follow the evolution of prices for shipping containers. Given the problems that corona raises in terms of logistics, administration and staff, it is likely that the price would rise. The Freightos Baltic Index indicates that tariffs have increased significantly in 2020. However, current inflation rates remain relatively low. Only for unprocessed food products, the price of which increased by 6,6% compared to 2019, the shrinkage in the third quarter of 2020 was significantly above 2%. However, this high inflation rate is partly due to the exceptionally low prices for fruit and vegetables in 2019 and partly to specific market conditions, such as the harvest of apples that was disappointing. The annual screening of the Price Observatory gives us an idea of the markets for which imports of products are substantial in relation to domestic production. There, an increase in prices for shipping could have a major impact. Examples of sectors that can be strongly affected include clothing, shoes, cars, computers and peripherals. Nevertheless, inflation for those products in the third quarter was limited to 0.1 %, 2.5 % and 5.0 % respectively. Of course, the Prize Observatory is following the situation further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u30	Minister, you mentioned a number of sectors that might have been severely affected, namely clothing, shoes, cars, computers and peripherals. However, these are just things that affect almost all consumers, because everyone needs shoes and clothes. Based on the figures you have just given, inflation has so far been relatively limited, but an increase of 2.5 % for cars and 5.5 % for computers and peripherals can already make a difference for many consumers. I suspect that this will not improve in the coming months, but will probably deteriorate. We certainly need to pay attention to this and see how our country can take action. The public authorities must of course not impose prices at all, but they must ensure more flexible labour legislation in the context of the free market so that consumers do not fall victim to such things.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u31	Mr Minister, the ministerial decision of 1 November decided that all types of accommodation should remain open, with the exception of holiday parks, accommodation parks and campsites, which should be closed down from 3 November 2020 until now at least 15 January 2021. There are exceptions to this. I honestly don't understand that arrangement. Let me give you a concrete example. One should not rent a cottage in the holiday park of Durbuy which is owned by third parties and not by the holiday park itself, even though the cottages are at a great distance from each other and one should not get in touch with other people. On the other hand, it is currently possible to rent an apartment in a large apartment complex with lifts and other common areas. I really don't understand that distinction. Mr Minister, on the basis of what criterion was it decided that accommodation in holiday parks, accommodation parks and campsites should not be rented out to third parties? What is the reasoning behind this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u32	Mrs Van Bossuyt, I have just a brief answer. The measures are the result of an agreement within the Consultation Committee. The decision was translated into the ministerial decision of my colleague, Minister Annelies Verlinden. I therefore invite you to contact her, if you would like more clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your brief answer. I will indeed contact your colleague, but I think you can see that this is incomprehensible to many people. For the record, I am not advocating dangerous situations at all. I believe that we must follow all the corona measures strictly, because that is in the interests of all of us. For people, however, it is often incomprehensible where the differences lie. Especially when we know that it is already a very difficult period for many people, it makes it difficult to establish a basis for action, which we really must maintain.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u34	Our colleagues Vanden Burre and Depraetere are sitting in plenary for the budget debate and are therefore not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u35	Mr. President, Minister, on November 18, you announced the release of the circular economy action plan. It will focus on three main objectives: to strengthen product circulation, to combat planned obsolescence and to facilitate access to finance. As regards circulation, the Government Agreement provides for the implementation of measures to enable the final seller to have a right of appeal vis-à-vis the producer in the application of the legal guarantee scheme. As you pointed out in your policy statement, "this is an important project to develop the circular economy and thus extend the life of the goods." Another measure mentioned was to force the manufacturer to make available spare parts, product plans or tools for repair. You have also planned to evaluate the legal guarantee system with a view to improving it when the European directive is next transposed. Minister, beyond the broad lines known, what will the circular economy plan consist of? What concrete measures will be taken and how will they be allocated? Have you been able to move forward on the issue of the manufacturer's obligation to provide spare parts and other product plans? What work schedule have you set for the evaluation of the legal guarantee system?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u36	Mr President, Mr Prévot, I thank you for your question, which deals with an important subject which will mobilise us, in time and energy, in this committee. It is indeed an essential subject for consumer protection but also for the environment. The whole government is involved in a transition to a more sustainable society. It is therefore clear that I will discuss in the short term the timing of the introduction of the action plan for the circular economy with my government colleagues, in particular with the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection. Measures are provided for in this plan to combat planned obsolescence. First, the transposition of Directive 2019/771 concerns certain aspects of contracts for the sale of goods. It should allow consumers to have repairs, replacements or refunds made easier when buying a defective product. This is clearly one of the first steps to be taken in setting up and introducing this action plan for the circular economy. In addition, a number of normative measures will be taken under the Ecodesign Directive to extend the life of products placed on the market and to facilitate their repair. Finally, consumers will benefit from better information on the environmental impact and lifespan of the goods they consume. This federal action plan for the circular economy will therefore be essentially normative and should not require a great deal of budgetary resources. In addition, the necessary investments will be partially financed by the European Facility for Recovery and Resilience (RFF). I hope so anyway, and we're working hard on it right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u37	Thank you for your answer, Minister. It is indeed an important subject and a dossier that will have to be taken up in arms under this legislature. We've been talking about this for a long time. In fact, my group had tabled texts and had repeatedly questioned the previous government on this subject of the circular economy. So to hear your willingness to move forward in this area of the circular economy, to reveal some of its nature to us beyond the broad lines already set out in your general policy note, confirms to me that this government will go much further than we have ever been in the area of circular economy and that it will move forward in the right direction both for the ecological aspect and for the aspect of consumer protection. I can of course only encourage you to continue your efforts and we therefore look forward to this 'circular economy' plan, which will also be financed by the European RFF Fund. Here too, this is good news for Belgian public money.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u38	This question concerns a judgment of the European Court of Justice, which certainly has an impact on the FPS Economy. It has been considered that at present there is little clarity about the definition of the role of the CREG as an advisor to that of the General Energy Directorate of the FPS Economy, as well as about the channels of communication through which the opinions should be conducted. A number of European directives are currently being transposed into Belgian legislation. There has been a dispute with Europe over this for several years. The judgment in question, to which I referred earlier, was delivered on 3 December 2020. It considered that in Belgium the directives on the European rules on electricity and gas were not correctly transposed. The Court rejects the argument put forward by our Belgian government that not the CREG but the Competition Service of the FPS Economy and the Belgian Competition Authority as administrative authorities would be exclusively competent to take binding measures that would promote effective competition on the market. On the basis of the current legislation, the CREG can take binding decisions, but they can only cover existing obligations. In the Court's view, therefore, the CREG should also be able to take new decisions independently. In line with Europe's directives, the CREG should also be given exclusive powers to lay down conditions for connection and access to national networks. In that sense, Minister, I wonder what your response to this judgment of the European Court of Justice is and what legal conclusions will be derived from it by the federal government?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u39	Mr Van Lommel, I have taken note of the judgment of the Court of Justice. With regard to the content of this judgment, I refer to the reply of my colleague, the Minister for Energy, to Parliament's question No. 55011338C. It is the intention of the Minister for Energy to initiate the appropriate legislative procedure with a view to the implementation of the abovementioned judgment. My services will follow this closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u40	That's a pretty short answer. This is about the FPS Economy. There has also been talk of the Competition Authority and so on. I take note of it, but I would have preferred a slightly more comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u41	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ben Achor's 55011596C lapsed. Debates of the European Parliament 55011763C, 55011764C, 55011765C, 55011766C and 55011768C of Mr D'Amico are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u42	Mr Minister, banks would today be very difficult to allow credit to the retail sector or worse, they would even refuse credit. According to banks, the risk of financing the retail sector would be too high in the context of tight lending. That's why the whole sector would be blacklisted. For fashion shops, but actually for all sectors that depend on seasonal collections, this is a very big problem, because they often let the bank prefinance their collection. Thus, if they are no longer able to make use of these appropriations, they will find themselves in difficulties in financing their collections. If they cannot purchase new collections, they no longer have goods to offer to the consumer. Even financially sound companies would no longer be able to claim a loan. So this affects the companies very much. Companies already have liquidity problems, so pre-financing a collection is often not possible for them. There is therefore a risk that shops will have to sell their collections at dumped prices in order to obtain the necessary cash to purchase the next collection. This seems to me to be a problem we should avoid. Minister, do you know of this problem? Will you, as Minister of Economy, consult the banks, on the one hand, and the retail sector, on the other, to find a solution to this problem? Are you already working on a solution or are you already working on it within the government?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u43	Mr President, Mrs Houtmeyers, thank you for your question. The State guarantees bank loans to companies to enable them to continue to finance themselves in these times of crisis. This is of fundamental importance. In the absence of financial revenues and liquidity problems due to a decrease in turnover or closure, companies have a vital need for credit. I would like to point out that the law provides for maximum interest rates. If the State provides a guarantee, it must ensure that the credit conditions required by the banks of the companies are correct. Credit must be accessible. It remains to be seen whether this mechanism will provide an answer to the problem you raise in the retail sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You say the government must guarantee the bank loans. Credit must be accessible. Apparently it does not happen in practice after all and there are a lot of banks that no longer provide credit. Healthy companies now absolutely need capital to run their business model. Especially companies that have recently invested are now getting screwed. There is a chance that they will be put on the market as a bargain, or worse, that they will go bankrupt. I believe that this is certainly a problem that we must continue to address with the sector and with the banks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u45	Mr President, I would just like to point out that the services had misplaced my question on the agenda of the Committee on Social Affairs in relation to the contact professions. An agenda change has been made this morning and my question is on the agenda here. I'd be happy to give that to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u46	Yes, but that question came to the back of our agenda. Soon we'll certainly get to your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u47	Minister, on Monday 14 December the National Bank gave a presentation on the state of our economy and on the forecasts they are making for the coming year. This would show that the impact of the corona crisis would be not all that bad, although it is now very difficult to determine the damage definitively, as the economy is still in an artificial coma. It will therefore be important for us to step back on our economy step by step, so that we can gradually regain sight of reality. Minister, does the government have a plan for phasing out the measures until we get back into reality? If so, what will this plan look like? If not, will you work on such a plan? After all, the National Bank has clearly indicated that the phasing-out of the measures must be done in a smart way, in order to avoid dramas. The presentation of the National Bank also showed that 22 billion euros were saved by the Belgians. In an economy, of course, the money has to roll and it is not desirable for everything to be hijacked by the citizen. How will you restore consumer confidence to invest money in our economy? Will you make a plan to ensure that as much money as possible ends up in our economy and not going abroad, for example to foreign web stores?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Dierick and Mrs Houtmeyers, the discussions on the Belgian plan for recovery and resilience are currently under way within the various working groups. The final report will be submitted to the European Commission no later than April 2021, in accordance with the conditions laid down, in order to benefit from European support. I have extensive contact with the Secretary of State for Budget. We are now working on the best possible support for workers and companies to help them through the current crisis. Once the lockdown is over and the support measures can be phased out, we can roll out our recovery and investment plan. The plan will be an excellent means of improving the living conditions of our citizens as well as our budgetary prospects. For consumer credit, we are working on a law that extends the moratorium. The law must be completed by 31 January 2021. Contacts have already been established with Test Achats and Febelfin on the subject. The return of consumer confidence requires an improvement in prospects for the future. The support measures and the recovery plan are excellent responses to this problem. The time has not yet come to cut down the aid measures. On the contrary, we are considering supplementing the existing aid measures. After all, no one must stand aside. The sectors most affected probably deserve more support. When the vaccinations start, we will see more clearly the phasing out of the lockdown. At that point, we can start with the recovery plan, in order to revitalise our economy instead of taking measures to support it. This will be the best way to improve economic prospects and restore consumer confidence. For example, the Belgians will tend to consume more and save less.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u49	Minister, I am pleased to hear that the preparations are in full swing and that we will certainly reach the deadline for the relaunch plan. I hope that people will also take the time to link back to Parliament. Mr President, I call on you to make time available in the planning of our committee for a thorough discussion of the relaunch plan. Minister, a second aspect is consumer credit. I am pleased that this is being continued and I hope that we will be able to obtain an extension by 31 January 2021. Many consumers are waiting for this, so please communicate it immediately if this is positive news. After all, a lot of people are having a very difficult time and this can help to make ends meet. I wish you every success in preparing the relay plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u50	Mrs Dierick, our committee will, of course, have the time to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u51	Minister, like Mr Dierick, I am pleased to hear that you are fully involved in this plan. You want to reinvigorate our economy rather than continue to support it. A feedback to Parliament with a state of affairs and the concrete implementation of the plan would be very much appreciated. When we look at who the victims are, we see that this is mainly about the small self-employed and the entrepreneurs. At the moment, families feel this crisis even less. We absolutely need to restore consumer confidence, something in which the government certainly has an important role to play. Consumers must re-use their money to our retailers and businesses so that they can contribute to supporting our businesses. Linking these two aspects could provide good prospects.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u52	Mr President, Minister, there is still no agreement between the European Union and the United Kingdom on the future relationship from 1 January 2021. The so-called no-deal is becoming more and more likely, although I hope that hard work will be done to avoid it, not at the expense of Europe, of course. Given the close trade relations between Belgium and the United Kingdom, a no-deal would be an economic shock for Belgium. We know that, we've all read about it. 42,000 jobs are at stake. This shock could be partially absorbed by the Brexit Adjustment Reserve, the European Brexit Fund of EUR 5 billion, which is currently being finalised at EU level. This will be possible not only in the case of a no-deal, but also in the case of a deal. I would like to ask the following questions about the latter. When can we expect an agreement on this? When will this be communicated? How much is Belgium expected to receive in total? How much will the federated levels get? How will this be determined and by what distribution key? Will we look at the relative volumes of trade between individual Member States and the United Kingdom? Which sectors are eligible? There is talk of the fisheries sector, but I am also thinking of many others, because this was rather a symbolic story. In addition, because I myself am an entrepreneur and do business with the United Kingdom, is there sufficient clarity for the companies in a no-deal regarding the direct effect from 1 January? Is there a preventive plan, because it is always a pity to have to come up with a reaction afterwards? Is there an emergency action plan for January 1st or is it under control? Are we prepared when January 1 means the beginning of a no-deal?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u53	The European Commission has not yet published the Brexit Adjustment Reserve Regulation. It is also unclear when this will be the case and whether this will be known before the end of the bilateral negotiations. As a result, no information on the distribution of these funds between Member States or sectors is currently available. The Commission has indicated that the distribution of funds will take account of the Member States and sectors most affected. Coordination with the regions has already begun at Belgian level. For Belgium, priority should be given to the most affected sectors and regions, including probably the fisheries sector. The appropriate attention should be paid to SMEs. Moreover, it is important that the award criteria take sufficiently objective account of direct and indirect trade flows with the United Kingdom. This Adjustment Reserve will be useful, regardless of whether or not a trade agreement has been concluded with the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u54	So, Minister, it seems that there is not so much clarity, but the most important thing is that the question will come anyway. We know the indicators, the rules of the game, the most affected Member States, sectors and companies. I hope, for our part, that we can identify which sectors and companies they are, so that there is no doubt about that. I also ask that it be done objectively and correctly, because now the public and the press are being played very much. Restaurants are always mentioned in the current crisis with us, but there are a lot of related companies that are not visible and yet equally badly affected. So I would like that to be taken away. However, I have one more question. Are you comfortable when a no-deal scenario takes place on January 1st? Is there an emergency plan or should nothing happen anymore and is there sufficient communication to the companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u55	I will reply to this at the next committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u56	There may indeed be some questions about the Brexit and its consequences in January.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u57	Debates of the European Parliament 550011778C by Mrs Houtmeyers has been sent to the Committee on Finance and Budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u58	Mr President, my question was not normally added. I have looked at this question today, but I will see to it that the date and order of submission are respected next time. Mr Minister, we have all been able to observe over the past period that the professionals of contact professions are calling the alarm bell. Just as the catering industry and the suppliers who are still suffering and today, the first and second lockdowns have hit the contact professions very hard. Once again, we see very clearly that they may be the last to open the doors again. During the reopening after the first lockdown of the hairdressers, a number of specific conditions were imposed. We have seen that these measures have been followed fairly well, which has greatly reduced the risk of contamination. The people in the sector have done very well to make the necessary investments to ensure that everything can go as coronaproof as possible. I note, however, that this sector is in danger of being forgotten. If no action is taken at the moment, many of those practitioners of contact professions may go bankrupt. We even see very clearly, and a number of practitioners also indicate that they are opening all their doors in the black circuit for a number of performances, which is the opposite of the effect that was intended. Minister, how do you justify the economic damage caused by the long-term closure of the sector? On the basis of what objective scientific evidence does the government maintain the closure of the contact professions, including hairdressers? Was a re-opening envisaged by the government, subject to compliance with certain conditions, which may be even stricter than the conditions imposed for reopening after the first lockdown? How does the government respond to the concerns of the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u59	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, like restaurants and cafes, contact professions are intrinsically difficult to reconcile with strict protection measures. However, the stricter rules are needed to put a stop to the pressure on our hospitals and to further reduce the contamination curve. The federal government is aware of the increased risk of bankruptcy, especially in small businesses. Therefore, the government has introduced support measures such as the right of bridging, the deferred payments and the reduction and exemption of social security contributions. Given the high risk of contagion associated with the nature of the jobs performed in this sector, the reopening of this sector is linked to the evolution of covid-related contagion rates. On 15 December, however, we saw that the seven-day average of the number of infections increased slightly again by 6%, while hospital intakes decreased by 6%. Furthermore, we see that the reproduction number increased to 0.97 %, approaching the critical limit of 1%. Furthermore, the affected employers and workers can still rely on the federal and regional support measures implemented with the aim of maintaining or restoring consumer and business confidence in the Belgian economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u60	You say, Minister, that this is necessary in the context of the contamination curve and so on. However, I still wonder on the basis of which scientific evidence you will continue to maintain the closure. I can only observe that in the Netherlands and in Germany there was another kind of lockdown. But we have been the only country that has not reopened the salons, for example. Why do we deliberately choose to keep the salons closed when we are the only country to apply this rule? You speak of bridging appropriations, exemptions from social contributions and so on. Those are finally drops on a hot plate. Certain costs continue to go on. The regions provide a number of support measures, but they are far from sufficient. I think we're moving too lightly here. The water is on these people's lips. No coincidence was a death march this weekend to the Prime Minister's house. I really fear that this will be one of the sectors for which the phasing-out of measures will be too late. A lot of them are gonna go bankrupt. The current measures will be insufficient. I am the first to say that there must be measures, that we must make sure that mortality rates are low, that hospitals do not fill up, but that this must be thought through and done scientifically. I miss that all over this story and I deeply regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u61	We have come to the end of the questions for Minister Dermagne. We will now proceed with the questions for Secretary of State Dermine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u62	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to apologize. I can see that this is a question that should have been put in writing. There's a lot of details in there. The question seems to have been dealt with by mistake in the oral questions. I read in your policy paper that EUR 1.6 billion is earmarked at federal level for fiscal measures for research, development and innovation. How will these amounts be distributed in concrete terms? What types of companies and measures are involved, by province? What types of institutions and types of measures are involved, by province? What are the main conditions for recourse to the measures? Which body or who will assess whether the conditions are effectively met? Who determines the level of the measures and how? How will the effectiveness of the measures be monitored? How will the results of the aid be monitored? In what way will projects be evaluated, both in advance and afterwards? What happens if fraud is discovered? What is the expected return of the measures? How will the measures be made known to undertakings and institutions which constitute the target audience of these measures? How is it avoided that the large industry in particular will be able to benefit from the measures? How will it be ensured that SMEs and start-ups will also benefit from the measures? Can you tell me how many applications were submitted per province and how many were refused? Is there always a reason to go back to the companies and institutions that want to use the measures in vain or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u63	Mr President, Mrs Gijbels, you seem to refer to a number of existing fiscal R & D aid measures, such as the suspension of the corporate tax on the wages of knowledge workers, the reduction of investment and the reduction of innovation. Indeed, these measures have an impact on the tax revenues of the federal government. The overall tax revenue of these measures can be found in the annual inventory of the tax expenditures made for Members of Parliament. A more detailed breakdown of the measures between the different regions, the different provinces and the different business sectors could perhaps be provided to you by my colleague from Finance. As stated in my policy paper, during this legislature, in consultation with the Minister for Finance, I will examine how to improve the application of fiscal support measures, but you should know that Belgium is very competitive today in the field of research. In a recent ranking of Eurostat, our country was in third place in Europe in terms of the attractiveness of our research. Perhaps yesterday you read in the press that GSK, GlaxoSmithKline, made an additional EUR 100 million investment in the Rixensart plant? I think one of the reasons for this is that we are a particularly attractive country in the field of research.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u64	Minister, that was a very brief answer. I will certainly ask the Minister of Finance to look at what results have already been achieved and how everything is distributed. I'll follow up on that. As you yourself say, Belgium is very competitive in the field of research. Scientific research, knowledge and innovation are indeed our raw materials, which we really must honour. It is also important that the funds released for this purpose are properly used and that they are properly monitored to ensure that there is a real return and a good distribution to SMEs, which are mainly the driving force behind innovation. I want to give you something else. When I was preparing your policy paper, I reported to my husband, who owns a company, that his company might be eligible for such a reduction in the company's withholding tax, but he had never heard of that possibility. So there is real work to be done in order to give more expression to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u65	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the explanatory statement on the Science Policy PPS budget refers to a new fund, the European Research Fund. The 2019 budget explains that this fund was established to identify the revenue and expenditure associated with the research projects financed directly or indirectly by the European Commission. This fund is distributed among the Länder, among others. It is remarkable that not every state receives money from this fund. For example, only the French Community, the Flemish Community and the Walloon Region are provided with funds. Can you give more details about the research projects that are part of this fund? Do you already know how much money will be in this fund for the rest of the legislature, or can these funds still grow? Why do the other Länder, such as the Brussels-Capital Region or the Flemish Region, not receive funds from this fund? On the basis of what criteria has the allocation of funds from this fund been established? Will the distribution of these funds be reviewed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u66	I will try to give a longer answer than that to the first question, Mrs Gijbels. The Law of 15 January 2019 amending provisions on science policy, integrated police and defence provides, inter alia, that an organic fund is to be established within BELSPO. This fund is responsible for the management of all European projects involving BELSPO as a partner. It is only projects that were approved after 1 January 2019. BELSPO, like all other institutions at the different levels of policy, can participate in a European cooperation project. On the basis of the type of project and the activities included, a budget is allocated to BELSPO. This budget can cover several activities. It may be the operational activity organised by BELSPO as part of a project. In some cases, this is also budgeted for what we call third parties linked to BELSPO. These are Belgian partners who can demonstrate a long-term relationship with BELSPO, for example the Federal Scientific Institutions. If BELSPO acts as coordinator of such a project, the administration will also receive the budget provided for the other project partners, which will then be passed on to them. These are therefore budgets which are or are not intended for Belgium, depending on the partnership. Additional funding, topping-up funding, from the European Commission can be obtained for the financing of research projects resulting from calls for proposals organised by some of such European cooperation projects. Some examples of such projects are ERA-NET projects or Joint Programming Initiatives. The projects are selected by international review panels and co-financed by the partner organisation within the project. There is therefore no a priori allocation of budgets between the Länder. The use of the budgets is laid down in the grant agreement concluded with the European Union. BELSPO is currently involved in eight projects for a total of EUR 6.5 million managed by the Fund. BELSPO acts as coordinator for one of these projects. The resources managed by the Fund vary on the basis of the projects approved by the European Commission and involving BELSPO as a partner. Given the new instruments to be launched in the new Horizon Europe Framework Programme, it is difficult to estimate the fund's future budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u67	I'll work on this, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u68	Mr Secretary of State, we had already had the opportunity to briefly address the issue of satellite pollution in your policy statement. Starlink, led by Elon Musk, recently launched the latest satellites in its orbital programme. A total of 893 satellites are currently in orbit. The aim of this project is to offer a high-speed Internet connection service worldwide. He also announced that he would increase the number of satellites to 12,000 by 2025 and 42,000 in the coming years. Recently, the press published images of take-off from these satellites, especially from France. The company of Elon Musk is not the only one to have seized the opportunity of this market. We can foresee an increase in the number of satellites in the sky in the coming years with the various projects under way. Apart from the fact that a few companies around the world decide to occupy space in a discretionary manner in this way, some negative impacts are calling for, and particularly with regard to Belgian soil, scientific and astronomical research that is likely to be impacted. These satellites, reflecting the sun and therefore being very bright in the sky for observation devices, appear as artificial constellations and come to hinder the field of vision of astrophysicists blocking them from then on in their research and the possible progress. The International Astronomical Union expressed concern about this in a communiqué issued in February 2020. The current regulations have not been foreseen for a situation where thousands of satellites exist in the sky and therefore allow companies to apply for them, provided that they comply with the few rules in force. It is therefore essential to fill this legal gap and to regulate the access and use of space in order to preserve research and astrophysics progress. We are in Belgium and this debate is part of an international framework. Nevertheless, Belgium has always been proactive and among the leaders in space management and space policy. In this context, have you already drawn up a strategy on this subject with a view, in particular, to Belgium's next major international and European meetings on space policy? Have you discussed these issues and issues with our federal science institutions related to space research and astronomy?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u69	Thank you for your question, which concerns a major issue in the medium and long term, given the proliferation of objects of human origin in outer space. In particular, the deployment of the multiple satellite constellations in low or medium orbit is likely to have an impact on scientific observation activities, but also on the access of other operators to these low or medium orbits. In this regard, the role of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) in the management of orbital resources should be noted. States remain individually behind initiatives that could or should ideally be taken at the international level to regulate activities based on the deployment of very large satellite constellations. The mechanisms of international law that are now aimed at preventing harmful influences between space activities, however, do not apply to terrestrial astronomy, precisely because it is a space activity. This is indeed a matter of uncertainty or legal uncertainty at the moment. The Belgian scientific community has not at this stage reported any substantial interference with its current activities, which does not protect us against potential interference risks tomorrow. Federal scientific policy (Belspo) today does not have a clear vision of the impact of the deployment of satellite constellations on Belgian astronomical activities in the medium term. However, this problem is taken very seriously by Belgium, which, inter alia, referred to this problem at the 59th session of the Legal Subcommittee of the United Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space. Moreover, the European Southern Observatory (ESO) of which Belgium is a member confirms that, according to the information currently available on satellite constellations, the various observatories for which it is an operator will not now or in the immediate future be subjected to substantial interference or at least interference which cannot be easily circumvented. However, such satellite constellations will not be without consequences in the medium and long term for astronomy and astrophysics observations, as well as for large-field optical telescopes or for some other radiotelescopes. The ESO is continuing its investigation into the indirect impact of these satellite constellations, and in one of its recent councils Belgium and the other Member States have requested that ESO, as an observer in the UN body, stand as a global defence of the astronomical and astrophysic community of our countries. Belgium has already notified that it would fully support this approach. I would also like to point out, Mr Belspo, that Belspo is in close and permanent contact with federal scientific institutions, mainly the Royal Observatory of Belgium, as well as with other Belgian astronomical research actors, in particular at the University of Liège, in order to identify the impact of the phenomenon on scientific activities, and for Belspo to represent Belgium within the ESO. The latter is the international forum that is best able to represent us at the international level, to monitor these potential impacts. In the short term, there is no impact, but in the medium term, there may be, especially if satellite constellations are to multiply. These could have an impact that needs to be monitored.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u70	Thank you for your comprehensive response, both in the short term and in the medium term. As you point out, if the impact is not demonstrated immediately, the amplification and multiplication of the microsatellite phenomenon suggests that we need to be particularly vigilant. I welcome both your position with regard to the tools that can be activated at international level but also for the complements that you have provided with regard to the Observatory of Belgium and the University of Liège. I do believe that we must be able to involve our research partners, but also universities, in order to analyse at best and jointly define a strategy for the medium and long term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic317x.u71	This brings us to the end of this meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. I'll thank everyone and I'll see you next year.
