ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u1	Hello everyone, I'm happy to meet you for an exchange on the use of the VOCID-19 provision. Without further delay, I give the floor to Minister Clarinval for the presentation of the various figures and estimates related to coronavirus. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u2	Madam President, I will take stock with you of the use of the Corona provision. A presentation will be planned and documents are at your disposal. The purpose of this presentation is to explain how the EUR 3 billion earmarked by Parliament for the Corona provision was granted and used. We will examine commitments and liquidations by department. Priority was given to the protection of the population: crisis centre and medical equipment. Secondly, emphasis was placed on support and prevention measures: food aid, shelter for homeless people, studies on VOCID-19, purchase of medicines and medical protections. Currently, spending is focused on testing, support for the economy, additional costs for public institutions, and measures for the most disadvantaged. The table I have just mentioned, which was presented to you on 16 June, concerns the appropriations we had on 12 June. As a reminder, these amounted to €906 million in commitments and €903 million in liquidated assets. There was no change. I would like to turn to the table which shows the appropriations currently allocated to the departments. In the first column the appropriations granted since June 12, therefore between June 12 and today, are included. There are 1,027 billion euros in commitments and 1,026 billion euros in liquidation. In the second column, the total expenditure is 1,934 billion euros of commitments and 1,930 billion euros of liquidated assets. We will examine this in detail, I assure you. The following table compares the appropriations allocated to the departments (first column) and the actual consumption of these appropriations (second column). The accounts are closed by 10 September. Today, we have already consumed EUR 1,612 billion in commitments and EUR 1,277 billion in liquidation. The amounts in yellow are provisional amounts since the ministerial decree is being validated in the Council of Ministers. A priori, it should not be corrected. The next Council of Ministers will make it official. Let us now look at the state of expenditure for each department. An amount of €3 million is allocated to the Chancellery as part of the federal campaign against coronavirus. Similarly, we have allocated EUR 1.5 million to Fine Arts and EUR 1 million to La Monnaie to compensate for the lack of financial returns due to the interruption of activities in these institutions. The total amount of consumption at the Chancellery as at 10 September is EUR 6 080 000. An amount of €5,247,000 has already been committed, and €3,329,000 has already been invoiced in liquidation. For both bicultural institutions, funding will be allocated shortly. The undertaking and liquidation have not yet taken place but have already been announced. I now turn to the expenses of justice. Since 12 June, we have released additional amounts of €850,000 for the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions (EPI) and €2.7 million for courts and tribunals (including €2.2 million for staff responsible for the reception of litigants and the reinforced cleaning of premises). The total amount granted to the judiciary since the beginning of our action is therefore €406,000 for management bodies, just over 1.3 million for prisons and €541,000 for ordinary courts. In total, therefore, the amount allocated to justice amounts to EUR 2,340,000. Information on staff costs has not yet been received. As regards the Internal FPS, new appropriations have been made since 12 June: EUR 165 000 for the operation of the Crisis Centre; EUR 70 000 for the Legal Service; EUR 1.6 million for the costs of guarding Fedasil; EUR 550 000 for containers intended to house refugees in quarantine; and EUR 750 000 for various expenses relating to hygiene in Fedasil centres. In terms of consumption until 10 September, we are at 941 000 euros in commitments for the Crisis Centre, 70 000 euros for the legal service and 2.9 million euros for Fedasil. As regards defence and the appropriations granted to this department since 12 June, the amount of EUR 1 364 997 represents the cost in favour of pharmacists for the distribution of a washable mask for each citizen from the age of 12. The consumption for Defence is €47.7 million committed and liquidated for the purchase of masks. As for their distribution, 1 364 996 euros were committed and 149 955 euros were liquidated. I come to the appropriations granted and consumed since 12 June by the Federal Police: EUR 15 000 for the maintenance of buildings, EUR 160 000 for health and safety purchases, EUR 246,000 for various non-ICT purchases, EUR 30 000 for the acquisition of Mantis licences. The policy pre-finances the expenditure on VOCID and is reimbursed by the provision. In addition, of the 1,037,000 initially allocated for the purchase of masks, 265,000 were used for hygiene and protection costs. As far as FPS Finances is concerned, SFPI has secured 290 million to intervene with SN Brussels Airlines (remember the agreement with Lufthansa!). Aviapartner has also been given 25 million euros as well as 692,000 euros to cover IT expenditure; €486,000 in legal aid has been allocated to the draft law on State guarantee in the banking sector and €298,000 in miscellaneous operating and investment expenditure. Since the inception of the VOCID provision, SFPI has received €315 million from SPF Finance: €989,000, legal aid: €296,000 and €277,000 in liquidation. For the social security component, the new expenditure is divided as follows: KCE (Federaal Kenniscentrum voor de Gezondheidszorg), 3.5 million for various studies; support for people with disabilities amounts to EUR 29.6 million. This is an estimate for the months from July to September, which relates to the granting of a premium of EUR 50 for the second half of the year. This is one of the decisions of the Council of Ministers extended to the ten parties. The Income Guarantee for the Elderly (GRAPA) receives funding of 16 million. This estimate also covers the months from July to September and relates to the granting of a premium of EUR 50. The amounts of these interventions are estimated, because we do not yet have the exact figures. For INAMI, the additional expenditure for compulsory health insurance amounts to 157 million. The additional costs associated with psychological care amount to 23 million and post-COVID rehabilitation care and supervision of VOCID units to 5.5 million. So these are new expenses. The Federal Pension Service also obtained €321,624 to adapt computer systems and hygiene products. In total, for the Kenniscentrum (KCE), the royal decree is being approved. So we don't have the exact number. For persons with disabilities, expenditure amounted to 29 million, of which 19 million were in liquidation. For GRAPA, the estimate is EUR 16 million. As far as INAMI is concerned, the allocations have not yet been committed and liquidated. Unfortunately, we still do not have the figures to give you. For the SPF Pensions neither. For the voluntary compensation fund, we have provided €400,000, which is committed and liquidated. Ambulance services receive 8 million. We also provided funding for the fight against VOCID-19 to the University of Antwerp (13 million) and ULB (6 million). We have set up a call centre, with a cost of 2.6 million. Various regular and ICT expenditures were also allocated for 1.2 million. AFSCA receives 91,000 euros. Also for FPS Public health: fight against VOCID-19: EUR 131 000. Here we have a summary for Public Health. It is true that it is still the biggest consumer. It is quite natural, that is where the most important means are invested. You have the basic allowances, numbers and titles next door. You can see that until 10 September, the expenditure for the Public Health FPS amounts to €983 million. We are almost 1 billion euros for this service alone. And we have already committed 863 million and liquidated 723 million euros. I'm not going to detail this table, but you can read about the major expenditures of the Public Health FPS. To make this clear, the amount of EUR 860 million relates to the allocation of appropriations by objective. The amount of EUR 479 million represents expenditure on equipment, that of EUR 123 million on testing. The Defence contract via NATO for the purchase of equipment amounts to EUR 200 million. As I say at the outset, this contract will be revised very sharply, as only EUR 28 million have been used under this contract. We are therefore going to recover 172 million euros by means of a credit note. It was thought that this contract would be more widely used than it was. The taskforce consultancies represent EUR 2 million, medicines about EUR 40 million, miscellaneous expenditure EUR 2.5 million and transport EUR 12.84 million. We tried to proceed by theme so that you would have a more complete vision. This graph illustrates what I just told you right now, but in a more visual way. It is clear that, for the time being, the new expenditure is instead allocated to testing (EUR 79 million) and to miscellaneous expenditure. At present, testing is mainly expensive. The following slide presents the amounts for the acquisition of medical equipment. The masks represent 20 million euros distributed as follows: masks (82%), handling (11%), material (6%). As far as pharmaceuticals are concerned, our country provides 89 per cent, the Netherlands 10 per cent, the rest coming from the United Kingdom. I am talking about current spending, not the total since the outbreak began. For the amounts, the equipment represents 39%, the analysis 61% and the platform less than 1%. As far as consumption is concerned, I gave you the figures earlier. In total, we have 809 million euros for medical equipment, 34 million euros for the platform, 38 million euros for testing capacity and 11 million euros for the VTM. This means that EUR 84 million relates to ongoing cases. With regard to the Mobility FPS, we have allocated €45 million to skeyes, €110 million to SNCB for the free ticket – which shows that it is not quite so... There is always someone who pays! [[Laughs]] After this little remark, I come to the credits granted since 12 June to the Social Integration PPS and more specifically to the measures for the poorest. For winter reception, 904,000 euros were released; in fact, we extended it for the whole year, since needs were expressed on the side of the homeless. Then, 705,000 euros will be used to subsidize the food banks. It was also decided by the enlarged Council of Ministers to allocate 100 million financial aid to CPAS – in addition to 50 euros. For the period July-September, it is estimated that this €50 aid, also decided by the enlarged Council of Ministers, will amount to €27 million. As regards support measures for CPAS, EUR 3 million was granted for additional food aid from CPAS and EUR 10 million for operating costs of CPAS (decision taken by the enlarged Council of Ministers on 6 and 13 June). When we look at consumption on 10 September, we see mainly that 112 million euros are committed for financial aid, 6 million euros for food aid, 27 million euros for the 50 euro premium, 13 million euros for support measures for CPAS, 1.7 million for winter reception, 705,000 euros for the food bank and 210,000 euros for support for seasonal workers. This brings me to the SPP Science Policy and more specifically to the interventions in the expenditure on hygiene, planning and other expenditure for scientific institutions: 20 000 euros are spent on the Royal Institute of Space Aeronomy, 10 000 euros on the IRPA, 138 000 euros on the Royal Institute of Natural Sciences and 63 000 euros on the Royal Museums of Fine Arts. This is the reimbursement of expenses incurred by these institutions for the purchase of masks and products. As I said at the beginning of my speech, we are at EUR 1.9 billion, but future expenditure is still planned. As always, we anticipate. I'm not saying everything will be done, but you have to be ready in case. At the Council of Ministers, which was extended to the ten parties on 6 and 13 June, a 15% increase in the Federal State's contribution to the new RIS was foreseen with an amount of EUR 43 million. No indication of implementation has been received so far, but we know that it will come. A cheque of EUR 50 was also allocated in the fourth quarter: EUR 27 million for RIS, EUR 29 million for disabled people and EUR 16 million for GRAPA beneficiaries. As far as hospitals are concerned, we are also prepared to provide EUR 143 million for health care insurance for doctors, physiotherapists and dentists. Similarly, first-line support for hospitals is planned for the second wave, amounting to EUR 34 million. We have ensured that we retain a provision of EUR 100 million to enable us to deal with new expenditure, because we can see that hospitals can be confronted very quickly with an increase in their expenditure. Studies are under way for the Federal Centre of Expertise in Health Care (KCE) and amount to approximately €7.5 million. In addition, given that public health still needs to acquire equipment such as machines and products used in testing, we are planning a budget of €61.5 million for this purpose. We have also provided €9 million for Sciensano, €800,000 for the Social Integration PPS, to enable it to maintain winter reception until 31 October, €3 million for food aid for the fourth quarter, and €3 million in support for CPAS. With regard to Fedasil and the modification of the reception of applicants in Belgium, we anticipate a budget of EUR 45 million. Moreover, at the Chancellery level, we expect a crisis communication for the fourth quarter. Here too, it is worth EUR 3 million. Finally, the management budget allocated to public social security institutions (IPSS) amounts to EUR 10 million. A provision of $40 million is planned to cover the protection and hygiene costs of all federal governments, some of which have already requested interventions. We believe that applications will come from other jurisdictions and we have anticipated an amount of $40 million. A total of €2.510 billion is achieved. We're sure we'll have to pay them. This leaves 490 million available in the third package of 1 billion voted in Parliament. I remain cautious because we know, for example, that at the level of SNCB and Infrabel, there are important expectations. We're talking about hundreds of millions. So if these entities get an intervention up to their expectations, the third envelope could be exhausted. So we'll probably need half a billion reserves. Ladies and gentlemen, here is the main information I have today. I am prepared to answer your questions. If some are too technical, my collaborator will answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u3	Minister, thank you for this detailed presentation. It already answers a lot of questions that have been introduced by the members of the committee. I will give them the floor in the order of the groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u4	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to see you here in large numbers. It has been since March that we have faced this terrible corona virus. We'll have to accept, I'm afraid, that we're gonna have to drag that nasty little bug along for a while. We're gonna have to keep fighting that fight. It is also the reason why, in the past, our group has been very collegial in adding additional interdepartmental commissions that you have repeatedly asked for. There was some resentment at first. Eventually, that 3 billion was needed. That is, of course, a very large amount of money. You will therefore understand, Minister, that, on a regular basis, clear and repeated questions were raised from various groups in Parliament about greater transparency and clarity in the use of these commissions. Parliament has a right to that clarity. You confirmed at that time that your cabinet would give an overview of the spending of these commissions, which happened after a few days, for which, by the way, thanks. Of course, this question of transparency means that you inform the committee on a regular basis and not just when we ask for it. That seems obvious to me. It therefore bothers me that this detailed information reaches us either during the discussion in committee or even after. It is therefore difficult for us to thoroughly analyse this rather technical and detailed information. That doesn't make our job any easier. Minister, I do not think it is too much to ask that we should be able to exercise our control on the basis of complete information and not quickly. You have given a good overview, but how can we check in detail whether all this expenditure is COVID-related and ask questions about it? Perhaps it is your intention to avoid difficult questions and you will give us this information only at the start of this meeting. I think the services of the various departments and your cabinet have done a good job. Perhaps we can ask more specific questions in the course of the debate. As we had noted at the beginning, it turns out that the main part of the commission goes to health care, which makes sense. On 12 July there was an amount of EUR 820 million, which has now risen to EUR 1 billion. Looks like there's gonna be some more money. You have given details of specific uses such as support to skeyes and Aviapartner. I appreciate that. Nevertheless, I would ask you, and I will continue to do so, to provide more detailed information and, above all, to deliver it to Parliament in good time. Parliament is and remains the heart of democracy and must exercise control over the executive. That's constitutionally established. Therefore, give us the necessary means in good time to take up the task of monitoring. You give us an overview. In the statement of expenditure on the general expenditure budget for 2020 of 23 July, in particular on page 28, we note that EUR 1.7 billion has already been spent on appropriations and EUR 1.5 billion still to be spent. I have a question about this. How do we find these amounts in the current tables you are presenting to us? Maybe we'll find them if we had a little more time to look at those documents. If we dig a little further into the texts that were at our disposal at the time, on which we have already been able to do study work, then I read in the overview of the expenditure of 12 July last that 2 billion has been spent. There's a difference of about 300 million. On the basis of the texts that we have been able to analyse thoroughly, we have not been able to find that difference. I was going to ask you that question today. I will put them to you as well, but perhaps there is a simple and logical explanation for it and you have somehow incorporated it into the tables you are proposing to us today. It is a technical question, perhaps annoying, Minister, but if we agree to the addition of EUR 3 billion, it seems logical to me that we should ask for clarification. I hope you understand that. So much for a more concrete remark on the texts that are now before us, but I also have more general questions. You say that out of the EUR 3 billion, EUR 2.5 billion is currently available. Forgive me for the expression that is not entirely correct. EUR 2.5 billion has already been spent. How long will you be with the 500 million? I don't know what's gonna happen to us in the next few days or weeks. Last time we talked about months. I suspect it will then be included in the budget. I will come back to that later. There is another point that I cannot find in the tables, but perhaps you can give me a simple answer. Can you tell me if certain expenditure on certain public services has fallen because of the corona crisis? If so, which one? Can you give a detailed overview of this if necessary? That is not necessary today, and you may be able to give it to me in writing after this committee. We are always talking about the expenditure side. I have already said in my previous statements that we can also look at the revenue side of the whole story. Can you give an overview of the revenues of the federal government until the second quarter of 2020, so that we can get a clear picture of the country's budget? How much, according to your figures, is the budget deficit in 2020? Can you give an estimate of the size of the deficit in 2021, 2022 and 2023? A more general question, what are the predictions you know about the growth of our economy? Are these predictions reliable or do they need to be adjusted upwards or downwards? Can you go into more detail about this? A further question concerns government debt. There are a lot of figures about that. How do you see the evolution of government debt? What transactions did the Belgian Debt Agency make in the last quarter? I'm gonna go a little wider, and I'm gonna look at Europe. I have a number of questions about the European Recovery Fund. Is there any clarity about the amount that we will get? There are all kinds of amounts, ranging from 4.7 to 5.2 billion, and I have heard 8 billion mentioned. What's the deal with that, exactly? Could you clarify that a little bit? I would like to ask again what the key will be for the various entities that this small country is rich. When exactly do you expect this financial support from Europe? Has the federal government taken any initiatives before that? I read here and there that October 15 is a deadline. How are the conversations on that point going? Finally, how are the further negotiations on the multiannual financial framework going? Do you have eyes on that? Can you explain to the committee a little more detail on this? I'm rounding up. Until what date do you think the European Union will maintain its flexible attitude towards the EU fiscal and budgetary framework, for example on the 3% budget deficit? Will this flexibility continue for a while, or will the belt be retiring from next year?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u5	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you once again for the comprehensive and clear document, just as it was last time. That contains very detailed and good information. It would indeed be better for us to have such a document one day in advance, so that we can already look at and analyse things, but perhaps we can organise it next time. Before the summer, you also organised a meeting in which the full impact of COVID-19 on public finances was presented, both in terms of expenditure and not only in terms of commission, but also in terms of full expenditure and revenue. Would it be possible to get an update on this soon? I would like to see a little more detail on the income data to come from Minister De Croo, because you did not have such detailed information on this last time, and I would prefer to have the documents one day before the meeting, so that we can analyse them. So far you have received EUR 1 billion three times for the commission. To date, you have used EUR 2 billion of this and you are planning to use about half a billion euros. Do you have an estimate on the slightly longer term? Do you think you'll need extra commissions this year or next year? I also have two specific questions. Firstly, you have shown a table per theme. This showed that 200 million was committed and settled for NATO. In addition, you say that NATO was only able to order 28 million euros and that you would ask for a refund. Did the 200 million be paid in advance without delivery? Was that $200 million paid to NATO or to Defense? Could you clarify that a little bit? Secondly, with regard to expenditure on the FPS Finance, you spoke about the FPIM. The Dutch presentation says that 290 million aid went to Brussels Airlines and that a loan of 25 million was given to Aviapartner. Surely it is clear that the 290 million for Brussels Airlines is also a loan and not a gift? However, different words are used in the Dutch presentation. I do not know how it was expressed in the French text. For my peace of mind, I'd like a confirmation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u6	Minister, I would have a very specific question about the slides that you have presented to us, for which I thank you. They show an expenditure equal to EUR 486,000 (half a million) for legal assistance on the draft law on State guarantee in the banking sector. This can be found on page 8. I am indeed impressed by the figure: half a million euros for a legal consultation, for the drafting of a bill! Let us not be pretentious, but it seems to me that in this committee, for example, and in my opinion, we have enough expertise than to draft it ourselves, very sincerely! The text itself did not particularly impress me to the point of requiring consultation for such an amount! This requires more explanation! This will also allow a wider debate on this almost frenzied mode of using consulting offices, law firms (etc.) to draft bills. I remember a time when our jurisdictions had real expertise within them to use qualified lawyers and experts to draft bills. This is a much more general problem, but I think that you, as Minister of Budget, could pay attention to this kind of expenditure. I remember the Copernicus reform a number of years ago. We had swallowed up incredible sums of money in this kind of consulting fee. Unbelievable! Perhaps we could see things differently with a real grey investment in our federal departments. I am asking a specific question which I hope to have an answer to, but the problem which I raise is of a more general nature. Mr Minister, in fact, the crisis we are going through requires exceptional budgetary resources. That is why we voted for the provisional appropriations and adhere to the principle of provisions. At the same time, it was necessary to do so because exceptional and urgent measures were needed both to finance the deployment of some of our public policies in health, but also to be able to stabilize our economy through the support of a number of economic sectors, socio-occupational categories, but also through the stimulus measures we considered necessary. This refers, moreover, to a discourse which we Socialists have always held, namely that support for an economy is not made by an ideology of the supply economy which would like to think that, by magic, if compulsory levies are reduced linearly, we support the recovery or revival of the economy. This ideology has never been established. On the other hand, support for domestic demand through specific and targeted measures is accompanied by economic efficiency, irrespective of justice aspects, which the Planning Office also highlights in its latest press release. It states that the measures that have been taken – and which have been supported by the majority in Parliament – have supported domestic demand support. As a result, we did not see a collapse in disposable income. That is why the Planning Office refers to the closures of a possible recovery or a lesser crisis in 2021, which should make us reflect on future policies. Nevertheless, Minister, I think we need to ask you a number of questions because, as I have already told you, you must not wait for us to sign blank cheques. We need a check. I would therefore like to thank you for submitting an explicit and detailed document. Indeed, through our commissions, you provide us with more and more details. It is this level of detail that allows me to ask you a very precise question about a legal consultancy of 500 000 euros. While thanking you, I remain interrogative on certain points. First of all, we would like to have a little more details on the decline in revenue generated by the crisis. I think your document details the use versus spending rather well. That's great, but we'd like to know how our tax and parafiscal revenues are affected. I think it is important to see the impact of the crisis on taxes and social contributions. On the other hand, I would still like to hear from you about the economic outlook of the Federal Office of the Plan. What kind of reading do you have? Do you think, like the Federal Office of the Plan, that we are going to have a smaller deficit in 2021? It's not much, we're talking about 1% less deficit. So we'd move from just over 7% to just over 6%. Nevertheless, do you share this analysis of the Federal Office of the Plan on the basis of the elements available to you? So do you think you can draw us today on what you estimate, with regard to the assessment of the nominal balance and the structural balance, in this case the nominal deficit and the structural deficit for 2021? Other colleagues have raised the issue of public debt. It is interesting that you can communicate to us the state of the situation. How do you see things? I see that other levels of power take advantage of particularly low interest rates to refinance themselves. What about your public debt management strategy? Do you think this is the time to refinance the state? What dynamics are you working to manage our public debt in the best way possible, given current interest rates? This is the fourth or fifth time I've asked you the question. You will always explain to me that you will not fail to relay it at the level of the government or even to your colleagues who are in contact with the European Union. What is our speech in the European Union? There is a lack of clarity and readability. Perhaps this is a debate we will have with the Minister of Finance. In fact, I think it might be good if we had an exchange of views with the Minister of Finance. What is our speech to the European Union? Does Belgium weigh its weight to ensure that the "corona debt" – in other words, the over-indebtedness linked to the coronavirus crisis – is definitively immunised for the calculation of the evolution of public debt in the light of the criteria that the European Union has imposed on itself? Now we need clarity. Of course, some will tell me, as I no longer know which Member who replied to me, that the European Commission has given its opinion. Yeah, that's one thing. But there is the Council of Ministers. In other words, what kind of speech do we have in the Council of Ministers? What political position do we take in the Ecofin Council to frame the debt trajectory in the light of the European carcan? As my other questions are attached, I am not going to develop them further. I think that with that, Mr.Minister, we have already, from our point of view, identified what is essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the transparency offered. Parliament considers this to be very important. We would like to thank you for that. In the meantime, we have already released EUR 3 billion in the commissions. In July, we released a third billion to cope with the second wave of corona. If you look at the corona mortality rates, you will see that there is not yet a second wave. Of course, we must avoid a second wave of the virus, but not by panic measures. In the end, people lose their support. In an interview with the newspaper Le Soir, Minister, you openly question the strict measures that the virologists continue to demand to dive the coronavirus. You think, quite rightly, that Belgium should now move from crisis management to risk management. You said that "by following the experts on the letter, we have lost the support of the population." We must avoid a second wave, of course. This should be done through risk management rather than through crisis management. We are now in a triple crisis, in economic, social and health terms. The social distance measures remain in force. There can still be a second wave this autumn and winter. Moreover, we still have no idea of a clear medical solution. On the economic front, the aftermath of the lockdown has catastrophic consequences for some sectors, such as catering and tourism. The economic engine isn't working yet. We have started a severe crisis, a severe economic crisis that may be much more severe than the health crisis. Unfortunately, ten thousand people have now died of corona, but a much greater multitude will eventually go bankrupt and lose his or her job. Will we continue to work in this way in the future? Will a billion dollars be released over and over again? When do you expect a fourth billion to be requested from this Parliament? Before the corona crisis, there was already a pit in the 14 billion budget. This well was left behind by the previous Swedish Government and is the collective responsibility of all Swedish parties. The corona crisis has derailed the lamentable Belgian state finances even more. The budget deficit for 2020 is already estimated at EUR 53 billion. The latest economic forecasts by the Federal Planning Office show that an effort of EUR 12 billion will be needed to bring the budget deficit after the corona crisis to 3% of GDP by 2024. My second question is about that bigger picture. How do you fit that extra billion in this commission into the overall picture of the pit of EUR 53 billion this year? How do you plan to close the gap of EUR 12 billion by 2024? My third question was asked by Mr Laaouej. What about the evolution of the state debt? To what level do you see the state debt evolving? More importantly, is that level sustainable for our country? After all, the National Bank has raised the alarm for this. Fourthly, how will you try to escape the European criminal record with these disastrous budgetary figures? How do you see these figures within the framework of the European Semester and European budgetary rules? For my fifth question, I agree with Mr Van der Donkt, who referred to the EUR 750 billion in the European Recovery Fund. To benefit from this support, you must submit a plan to the EU by 15 October. How are you going to do that in concrete terms? Will you consult with the Länder? The recovery plan will also be linked to next year's Belgian budget, but we still have no idea of a budget for 2021. How will you complete that exercise by October 15th? My sixth question concerns the figures you have mentioned in relation to Fedasil. You mentioned EUR 1.6 million in security costs. Can you explain that? What exactly is meant by security costs? Did you have to put extra surveillance on the asylum centers? In your projection of the future expenditure, changes in the reception of asylum applications in Belgium include: EUR 45 million. You didn't go into that further. Does this imply a change in asylum policy in our country based on corona? What's that 45 million euros about? I would have liked to have had some clarity about that. Finally, I would like to join Mr Vanbesien. Minister, you gave a very nice presentation on 9 June, she is at the top of my folder with documents from this committee. You gave a large document, with a whole overview, entitled 'The budgetary situation of Belgium'. Madam President, can we do this exercise again in this committee, because that is, of course, a piece of work that needs to be updated? We must look not only at expenditure, but also at the revenue side. We must look at the whole budgetary picture, with the evolution of public debt, the evolution of the budget deficit and so on. The Flemish Interest therefore calls for a separate meeting of the Committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u8	Minister, thank you for your usual transparency and for the comprehensiveness of your presentation. Of course, my colleagues have asked you to detail these measures, but there is no doubt that several bodies that oversee the State's action will spend their time scrutinizing expenditure. We are also eager to see the evolution of the European position with regard to this deficit. In my view, it will have to show patience and, certainly, foresight, since everyone has been confronted with the same problem and the European Union does not have much to learn from each Member State's efforts. Of course, this implies on our part – and this justifies our eagerness, if we can still speak in these terms – to finally work with a full-fledged government – we are delighted, moreover, that the negotiations are probably moving in the right direction – so that we can work towards this recovery to which everyone aspires and which is so necessary. Imagination, inventiveness and courage will obviously be required. At least we'll be on the rendezvous. I think you'll be there, too, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u9	Minister, thank you for your explanations and PowerPoint presentation, which we would have liked to have received earlier. Indeed, in order to be able to prepare our questions, it would have been better to receive the documents in advance. We can welcome your transparency exercise, but we can also regret that you only practice it half-way, since you are giving us the pieces at the last moment. That's too bad. As long as you want to be transparent, you may as well be completely transparent, minister – but it may be for the next time. I will review some of the points you have raised. First of all, the 2.5 billion is the more or less 2 billion we have arrived at, and more or less half a billion future expenditures?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u10	If I may, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, 2.5 billion, that's really what's...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u11	This does not appear in the tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u12	Basically, there are 2 billion that are already...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u13	That's in the paintings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u14	There are more or less 500 million that are estimated, depending on what is already in the pipeline. We have more or less 500 million available. But I said that the issue of SNCB has not been resolved. If the SNCB ever gets several hundred million, what it asks, to compensate for the losses associated with the coronavirus, the 3 billion will be consumed. That element is not yet on the agenda at all. Let us consider that today we have more or less 2.5 billion that are almost sure to be spent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u15	And for SNCB, is there a deadline for the decision? Or is it for the next government? Or could it still be this one?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u16	I know that SNCB would like the state to intervene to compensate for the loss of profits of travellers who do not visit the network. These are colossal amounts, of course. Imagine the number of travelers who are not here at the moment! If we accept fully, it is several hundred million. If we refuse, it's zero. I don't know the position right now. But this element is important and, if so, could really rock that third billion that is currently consumed only half. He's really going to be influenced by that decision. It's good to have that $500 million buffer, just in case. But don't see it in my head, neither an approval, nor a refusal. It's just that I'm the Budget Minister and I have to anticipate all the problems. If I'm told we're not intervening, that's good, it'll be zero. If I'm told to take 500 million, I'll take 500 million. Do you understand what I mean?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u17	That's right. This raises the question of the information given here in the tables for air transport. Indeed, we have voted three times a cheque in white of EUR 1 billion, one third of which is spent on Brussels Airlines. When the Minister of Finance came to tell us the situation, he presented it to us as a loan. The question is therefore whether this amount should be included in the budget. I am very sceptical about this intervention. I am not saying that we should not intervene, but this is a substantial financial intervention which, in my view, benefits Lufthansa and offers no guarantee of the future to Brussels Airlines. You've been signed this blank check and your reaction doesn't agree with us, which brings out the undemocratic aspect of the exercise. The agreement seems doubtful to me, especially since there seems to be some selection among the beneficiaries of the aid. Far from my idea of defending a particular company, but it goes without saying that some companies are wondering why we are intervening financially for each other and not for each other. The two questions I have just mentioned also apply to Aviapartner. Here too, it is a loan. Why is this loan included in the budget? And why grant a loan to Aviapartner by letting Swissport go bankrupt? Double standards cannot be applied to two competing companies. On page 16, there are computer expenditures for FPS Finance for €692,000. How are these expenditures related to the crisis of the VOCID-19? The following line provides legal assistance to write this bank guarantee law. Which office(s) of lawyers received these €486,000? In the past, there have been "businesses", notably with Minister Galant and Cabinet Clifford Chance regarding questionable relationships and very important amounts for work that was not of quality. This type of approach, its recurrence, the amount and the beneficiary can be questioned. There are also computer expenditures for pensions on page 19. What does VOCID-19 have to do with it? On page 25, there is a NATO contract of 200 million. Can you tell us what's going on? Do you have any idea of the financial situation of hospitals after the VOCID-19 crisis? Indeed, if risks of cascading bankruptcy were to be announced in the hospital sector, this might not be the case at all, it is clear that there would be budgetary implications for the State. Do you have any data on this? Finally, compared with the overall budgetary situation, the Plan Bureau, in its recent estimate, estimates a deficit of 10.17 per cent. So we are at EUR 44.5 billion! This amount is significant, but it is reduced. Do you have any other data or do you rely on the figures from the Planning Office? The question remains of how we will compensate for such a deficit! I know, and you have repeated it several times, that you are not in favour of a tax that would target the greatest fortunes (the "one percent" of the population). So, if you want to save the richest percent of the population, that means you have no option but to draw money from the other 99 percent of the population, a practice that all governments have applied so far and to which you visibly adhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u18	Mr Minister, these are indeed exceptional times, in terms of health, but also in terms of financial matters. There were a lot of questions asked and I can understand that it's for you to look at coffee grounds for a lot of questions. In French, it means reading in the coffee marc or in the tea leaves. How long will the VOCID crisis last? What will be the EU's decisions? How will the economy develop? Of course, EUR 2.5 billion is an exceptional amount of money. The assessment of the figures is complex and difficult, because we work with a cash account in Belgium, so both loans with of course a credit risk and effective expenditure are included. However, there is another important point that several colleagues have already mentioned, namely SNCB. Then it is not just about the free train journeys, but you mentioned that there may be additional questions to follow. Of course, that goes a bit from the left pocket to the right pocket. In the end, the state accounts include not only the federal budget, but also those of the regions and the Länder, as well as those of the public institutions. There is perhaps even more coffee in the eyes of SNCB's results. It's already right whether we give money for free train tickets or for corona's sake. It would be a good thing that Belgium has accounting records everywhere that can meet international standards and provide a reliable picture. In this sense, the global Belgian accounting is still often looking at coffee. We urgently need to go back to a normal budgetary process with both the drafting of a budget and the control of the budget. The provisional twelfths are already an exception. That is a budget without a budgetary control mechanism. This corona commission is, of course, also a bypass of a traditional budgetary process. At certain times there are more expenses. I fully understand that exceptional expenditure in times of crisis was difficult to plan. At some point, however, there are also fewer expenditures in business in certain places, which saves important sums, such as travel and representation costs. In health care, there are not only departments that have had to cope with more burdens, efforts and expenditure, but there are also departments and government departments where less work has been done and which have been spent less. That exercise is missing and needs to be re-entered. My next point is in line with Mr Laaouej. Of course, we need an efficient state, where there is the necessary competence to manage these budgets and this exceptional situation. We must be honest that we have thought for too long that quantity prevails over quality. Over the past decades, government employment has been an end in itself. However, it forgets that top talent needs to be attracted and that highly specialised knowledge needs expertise in the house. This presupposes a change in recruitment policy and staff policy in the public institutions, in the sense that more mobility and more selectivity in recruitment is allowed. I am also in favour of the government being able to guarantee mobility in the future, perhaps as one employer. After all, it is not just about top-level expertise, at legal level. I can imagine that with regard to mobility, the government can free up resources in the departments so that it can easily be switched. Our entire system is designed so that everyone is too much in their booth. This issue is also addressed in this crisis. I think it is important that we also look at how our management systems, our management systems, our control systems are put together in the ex post evaluation of this period. We're going through a crisis. We must be aware that a government that tries to compensate for this, preferably as much as possible, is not an objective in itself. That doesn't turn away the crisis. We face a major challenge that we must take with great attention, care and responsibility for the future generations. Mr Laaouej, I have dealt with a number of things you have said, but you will be able to read them in the report, because you were not here for a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u19	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. As Mr Leysen said, my name is not Mrs Irma. I am unable to answer certain questions. I am not in a position to tell you how long the crisis will last or what Europe's attitude will be in the coming months. On the other hand, I will try to be very comprehensive in the answers to the questions that fall within my purview as Minister of Budget. First of all, Mr Van der Donckt, I am trying to be as transparent as possible. I came here spontaneously. I'm the one who asked the secretary to set up a commission. So you didn't invite me; I invited myself. So we can't say I wasn't proactive. I asked to come because I promised you that I would come to take stock after the parliamentary holidays. I agree with you that I could send the information a little earlier. My firm tried to be as connected with the deadlines as possible. Our figures date from September 10, 2020. I mean, we're trying to have the best information to give you. On the other hand, I am quite prepared to come soon to give you a more in-depth analysis of the overall budgetary situation, as others have requested. But that is not the purpose of today's committee. I didn't prepare that. If you wish, we can schedule an appointment in the coming weeks for this other exercise. You note a difference of 300 million from what I said last time in May. This is very likely because, in what I am presenting to you, still today, there are amounts that are sure and assumptions. Between EUR 2 billion and EUR 2.5 billion, there are EUR 500 million that are now assumptions or, in any case, elements for which I am trying to anticipate spending. Some assumptions are made, others not. It is therefore possible that there will be EUR 300 million in difference. I didn't check. In any case, today's figures are crushing those of May and, therefore, today's figures are the most up-to-date. The figures I gave in May were the most imaginable at that time. Are there expenses that have declined somewhere? Probably. I don't know. And if necessary, we will be underutilising at the end of the year if, fortunately, departments are to record reductions in budget consumption. But I didn't do the exercise here. I have focused on the new expenses that we have borne in the VOCID-19 committee. In fact, we have an average of one billion under-utilization every year. Indeed, credits are too high in some locations. Will a fourth billion be required? I don't think so. As I just said, I'm not Mrs. Irma. As things stand, we have $500 million available to deal with new spending. There is the question of SNCB, which I spoke to Mr. Van Hees. It is a question that costs hundreds of millions. The decision to do so will have an impact on the provision. But as things stand, I think that today we do not need a fourth billion. However, I do not exclude it. You never know what could happen! We can still see that the flow of new spending is less strong than in the middle of the crisis. Many services have made savings, or in any case have taken precautions. Today, we have less pressure for new spending. We see that we have passed a certain course. I don't have any information on the recipes. This must be asked of my colleague Mr. From Croo. I can't tell you anything about that. With regard to the deficit, I will answer, if I may. Mr. Laaouej had asked in writing a very detailed question about this. I will therefore answer Mr Laaouej's question, but it applies to many of you who ask the same question. Mr Laaouej first asks me whether I have a precise idea of all the least recipes. In this connection, I can refer to the report of the Monitoring Committee of 17 July. For the month of March, the lowest revenue was estimated at 18 billion, or 12.3 per cent. It will be necessary to await the new note of the Monitoring Committee in order to obtain an up-to-date view. With less pessimistic growth estimates than expected, the decrease in revenues can be expected to be lower. However, I will not venture to announce figures today. Mr Laaouej also asks me whether we have a precise idea of the growth forecasts for 2021-2022, the impact on the deficit, etc. I would remind you that the Monitoring Committee has been asked to prepare a new report for 30 September. The figures for 2020 and 2021 will be updated, taking into account the September economic budget and other more recent information. By Friday, 18 September, the two pre-formers wanted the Monitoring Committee to draw up an initial rudimentary and incomplete estimate of the impact on the economic budget. On that date, therefore, they will have an anticipatory idea, for entity 1, of the official report that will fall at the end of the month and include income figures. As it is at the request of the pre-formers, I do not know if I will receive these documents. Mr Laaouej asks me the question of public debt. In the note of the Monitoring Committee of 17 July, the debt ratio for 2020 was estimated at 122%, an increase of 23.4% over 2019 or 23% over the March 2020 estimate. The increase vis-à-vis last year or the March estimate was explained for half by the impact of a lower GDP and for the other half by a more negative balance. As part of the draft budget plan, a new estimate of the debt ratio for all public authorities will be made. In view of the less pessimistic estimates of the economic budget of the Planning Office, it is likely to be a slightly less negative development. Debt and deficit will be a little less negative – hopefully! – than expected from the figures of the Office of the Plan, which are a little less bad than what we feared. As regards the European Union, on 23 March 2020, the general derogation clause was activated for the first time following an evaluation by the Commission, which was subsequently approved by the Council. This clause provides additional and temporary flexibility in the event of a severe economic recession for the euro area or the European Union as a whole. The Commission communication of 20 March clarified that the general derogation clause does not suspend the procedures of the Stability and Growth Pact. This enables the Commission and the Council, at the level of the Pact, to take the necessary political coordination measures by departing from the budgetary requirements that would normally apply. The Council supported this interpretation in its report of 4 April on the overall political and economic response to the VOCID-19 pandemic, stating that the clause provides the flexibility necessary for national budgets to support the economy and to respond in a coordinated manner to the impact of the VOCID-19 pandemic. Within this framework and within the framework of a streamlined European Semester, general budgetary guidelines will be provided. An important point in the application of the general derogation clause was left open, namely the duration of its application. In principle, the clause should be lifted as soon as the severe economic recession in the European Union and the euro area comes to an end. However, there is no generally accepted or agreed definition of a "serious economic recession". In its report of 1 July 2020, the European Fiscal Board stated that the activation of the general derogation clause should have provided guidance on the timing and conditions for exit or revision. Clarifications should be provided by spring 2021. In the current context, it would not be desirable to use the rate of real GDP growth when considering the end of a serious economic recession. It would be wiser to use real GDP before the crisis in the euro area and the European Union as a reference. No date is mentioned. We're talking about spring 2021. There is currently no provision for special flexibility or special treatment of expenditure under the Recovery Plan beyond the temporary application of the general derogation clause of the Stability and Growth Pact. Discussions are under way to see how to account for measures subsidized by the Recovery and Resilience Facility. It is therefore not currently planned, beyond these elements, to immunize expenditure (investment-health expenditure). Once the general derogation clause is deactivated, the existing GSP rules will apply again pending further revision, which is likely to be discussed at the end of the year or next year. This allows me to answer some of your questions, but also those of Mr Laaouej who are somewhat similar or those of Mr Vermeersch. I shall continue in the order of the questions. Mr Vanbesien, we can do the update, but we will have to schedule a meeting in the coming weeks. That's where we see optimists and pessimists! For NATO – and I am replying to Mr. Van Hees also - in the midst of the crisis of the VOCID-19, there was a need for equipment and a whole series of products. All the doors were then hit so that they could acquire these materials. Belgian Defence has a contract that binds it to NATO. This contract is for a NATO procurement centre. I'm caricatured a little bit, but if you need an emergency NATO aircraft, it can provide it to you without going through a public procurement, a fast tank, for example. It turns out that here, it wasn't to buy tanks, it was products related to the VOCID-19 crisis. This market is very flexible and allows to work quickly. At one point, Defence was asked to purchase products that I can't remember but were offered at the NATO procurement centre. That's how we had to pay to the Defence, which itself paid to NATO for certain products purchased at that time. We planned $200 million. We've been ambitious. Finally, we were only able to buy 28 million via this channel, but we still gave the money to the Defense. To answer your question, we'll ask the Defence for the difference when we get a more accurate view of the amount. I think we're 28 million. So we're going to recover some $170 million, which is not nothing. This will come in a decrease of 2.5 billion since we had planned 200 million. I hope I've been clear about that. As far as SFPI is concerned, you're right. There's a part that's on loan and a part that's in cash, but the ICN is asking us to value it all as an expense. It's the ICN who wants to account for everything as an expense. It is only if we recover through the repayment of the loan that we can deduct at that time. It is a request of the ICN to practice this way. But you're right, there's 50/50 of memory, which is on loan and the other on expenditure. For legal aid amounting to EUR 486,000, I will ask Laurent, my collaborator, to reply live, if you allow, because it is indeed a particular contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u20	When it comes to the question of which service provider is Eubelius. It is a public procurement that was launched in its time. Why is the amount so high? In fact, the office helped Finance from start to finish. What do we mean by this? It is the analysis of the need, the legal drafting, the passage to the Council of State and to the European Commission and the publication. It is clear that the amount is high. According to your analysis, it is a shame to call outside. You're right! I think that Finance has had pension departures that have affected them enormously, like other departments. We take the example of lawyers. You said that we need quality, but in relation to our administration, we have the same problem. We are 13 jurisdictions in need of a lawyer. That makes 13 lawyers. If we have a recruitment reserve with 5 candidates, we are happy. The problem is that lawyers are no longer inclined to work in the state. We'd have to find a solution. But you are right, it is a real problem to no longer know it, to be dependent on consulting offices, whether for legal aid, for computer science or for any other problem, because we are no longer in the labour market, with experienced or quality people. But here is the justification for the EUR 496,000! It was because there was a whole process with Eubelius from A to Z that the bill was quite high.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u21	For the other questions, I think I answered earlier with the reading of the answer. On the "corona debt", I agree with you on the principle. I believe, indeed, that we must advocate, at European level, that all expenditure related to coronavirus should be immunised from recorded expenditure. It's for principle. Now, how is this going to happen? I think I gave the details earlier. I think we will evaluate this in the spring of 2021. Mr Vermeersch, in fact, here you see only part of the state's action in the face of the crisis of VOCID-19. We did not talk about temporary unemployment, for example. We did not talk about the right bridge for the self-employed, which also represents billions of euros. The provision I am referring to here relates only to expenditure related to the various departments. As has already been explained, the government has tried to allow citizens and businesses to go through the crisis with the least possible suffering. This measure has called for substantial means, particularly in the areas of unemployment (as will be shown by the figures of the ONEM) or bridge law for the self-employed. So now is the time to take a first look at the government's action, and I don't think we have to blush in the way we have responded, even though things have not always been simple. We have endeavoured to limit as much as possible the social and economic impact on citizens and businesses. With regard to Fedasil-related issues, the €45 million foreseen at the request of the minister concerned should be used to anticipate the possible additional influx of refugees when borders are reopened after the crisis. In addition, an amount of EUR 6 million has been allocated to surveillance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u22	It's guarding. At the very beginning of March, Fedasil sought support in the form of guards because tensions were developing in some centres, especially when people were suffering from VOCID-19 and had to be isolated. There are many centres in Belgium. That is why it was necessary to provide G4S and Securitas personnel in all centres to be able to regulate tensions internally. At the same time, container rentals were decided, because in March and April it was necessary to isolate some asylum seekers – with some consequences. To return to another request for explanation, relating to the 45 million, the crisis of the VOCID-19 required that all appointments take place at the Office of Foreigners. The result is a certain delay in the processing of cases and, therefore, a small number of exits. In addition, we feared an influx in the event of a reopening of borders. We have more space than capacity to process files. Questions were then asked about the rationale for the provision of information technology. The reason is simply that in Finance, 10,000 public servants do telework. As a result, it was necessary to increase the capacity of disks and connections, as well as to provide all agents with an internet connection. Indeed, some of them did not have an ADSL line or wifi at home. As a result, we had to provide them with maps. Secondly, computer developments have been developed, since all forms must now be available online. Similarly, for the EUR 50, it was necessary to develop all the programmes used for the execution of payments in a standardised way. In short, all computer expenditures are directly related to this issue. Our administration is responsible for filtering and verifying the existence of a causal relationship with the VOCID provision. For example, we refuse certain expenses because we believe that they do not have such a link and that there is a need to avoid any call for air in order to incur unnecessary expenses. To be as complete as possible, I will end with SNCB. Minister Bellot is in the process of analyzing her losses, because they can be calculated in different ways. Besides, state aid must be avoided. Nor can we cover all losses, as the European Union imposes certain rules. We will see whether, in instalment 4, we will incorporate the losses of SNCB or whether we will involve the provision. That is why we are quite optimistic, not giving us a fourth billion dollars. Indeed, we still have the opportunity to increase the allocation to SNCB and Infrabel. In any case, Minister Bellot has assured us that he will come before the end of the month to present a note to the Council of Ministers to explain and justify the need.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u23	My co-worker answered Mr. Van Hees concerning the EUR 692,000. It's a computer fee. For the question of Mr. Van Hees on pensions, the answer is the same. As far as taxes are concerned, a priori, I do not like taxes, not only those on big fortunes, but no taxes, Mr Van Hees. You ask me the question every time and I answer you every time. In the Budget, sometimes revenues are needed, but do not say that I am opposed to a particular tax. The financial situation of hospitals is closely monitored by my colleague De Block. You were able to see this as I presented it: we gave nearly a billion euros to Public Health. Of the two and a half billion spent, one billion goes to Health! It is not just hospitals that benefit from it, but I believe that hospitals are being followed closely enough so that they do not have to plunge into financial difficulties in addition to the difficulties they are currently encountering in managing the crisis. The Health FPS is the lion's share of consumption in the corona supply. I think I have answered all the questions. If I have forgotten, don't hesitate to remind me!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u24	Minister, I still have a small question. For the impact on revenue, you refer to Minister De Croo. I understand he has the details of the impact on tax and parafiscal revenues. But if I am not mistaken, you made a commitment before the summer to come to this committee in consultation with Minister De Croo's cabinet with a consolidated view. I would therefore ask you to do the same. For example, we can review, discuss and evaluate both the impact on revenue and expenditure in one meeting. Perhaps we should ask Minister De Croo to join us, but I thought you had committed yourself to settling this with Minister De Croo's cabinet. Hence my call to do so, if possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u25	Madam President, I wish to support my colleague Vanbesien's request. There is a need for an overview of revenues and expenditures. I do not know when the new note of the Monitoring Committee is scheduled. Perhaps we could have a meeting with the two ministers to take stock of the likely evolution of the nominal balance and the structural balance, but for that we need the evolution of expenditure and revenue. I support that request. In addition, half a million euros have been mentioned for a legal consultation for a bill. If, tomorrow, for any bill, we have to spend half a million euros, I don't know where we're going! I'm astonished at the amount! I heard the name of the service provider and understood that there had been a service contract. It's a case to follow! As Minister of Budget, it seems to me that it is appropriate to recall the moderation that must be exercised in this type of consultation. In addition, amendments have been made to the draft. We discussed it at length and there was the opinion of the Council of State. I would remind you, when you read the coordinated laws on the Council of State, that the Council of State itself can be a legal adviser. It can be involved in the development of a bill! For the rest, we have some expertise within the federal administration, from all departments. As far as banking is concerned in particular, there is expertise on the side of the Justice FPS. We need to make a little more use of the resources of our services!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u26	It is indeed necessary to ensure that all skills are not only present but that they can be mobilized. So I was saying that perhaps too much attention has been given to the quantity and stability of employment and that this has led to a lack of attractiveness as an employer. We must have this discussion in a very broad sense. I do not doubt the competence of the Council of State, but it is not to be expected that it will play the role of negotiator with the banks. It's another area. But I would not ask for senior officials and an elite corps to take over some of the work that we are going to consult.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u27	Mr Van Hees, please accept my apologies because I forgot you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u28	Madam President, Minister, we would still like to know how many hours of work these amounts relate to legal aid costs. What hourly rate was applied? I have the impression that the government is increasingly making use of this cabinet as part of its legal assistance. And, when you know that it was the law firm that was founded by the Minister of Justice, I still find that challenging. I wonder about the procedure. Another point concerns Brussels Airlines. You're telling us that the ICN said that we had to put everything in "expenditure" when it was a loan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u29	We need to check, but it's not all ready. Remember, there's only one part on loan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u30	Fifty, fifty or a game only? In my memories, Minister De Croo said everything was on loan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u31	I have to check.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u32	Furthermore, how is the NCI's decision to put this under the heading "expenditure" motivated? In fact, they do not believe in the reality of this loan and say that it is a transvestite aid in the form of a loan. So little is believed in the repayment of this loan that it must be recorded as an expense. Would it be possible to have the motivation of the NCI?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u33	I don't have the answer here. I can find out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u34	Indeed, I would like more details on this decision, because I think it has implications that are not anodized especially in view of the amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u35	To answer Mr Laaouej who is asking a question, the next report of the Monitoring Committee (COMO) is normally scheduled for 30 September, but, as I said earlier, the informants asked to anticipate this date because they would like to receive it earlier. The problem is that if we want complete figures with satisfactory information, we must give the COMO some time to be able to carry out this work. At the moment, I'm not the one who has the revenue information. I don't have the ability to ask for this information because it's not up to me. I can make a commitment to come and get an update as soon as possible, but it takes me a few weeks to get the COMO figures, or even the COMO prefiguration. Currently, I am not in a position to do this next week. That's impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u36	I have taken note of the request for a meeting with the two relevant ministers, following the Monitoring Committee. We have just heard Minister Clarinval's response and will look at what can be done. Of course, we will come back to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-15-55-commissie-ic257x.u37	We have received here in the past the report from the National Bank on the bank guarantee. The National Bank had made an extensive report on this. Can you contact the National Bank to request an update of that report? There was a good list of how many loans had been requested, how much was used and which partners were involved. It would be interesting to ask for that report again. This is not a political question, it is simply a question of updating that report.
