ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u1	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for being here at this busy time. Since the Prime Minister has to leave by 15.50 p.m., I propose that each questioner be given two minutes' speaking time. The Minister then replied and, finally, each speaker received two minutes before replying. I will see to that, unlike my custom, a little more stringent so that everyone has the chance to replicate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u2	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, thank you for making time to answer our questions this afternoon. The question I am asking you now dates back a while, but I think it is important to get an answer to it. My question concerns the letter you signed with eight other Member States and sent to Mr Charles Michel in the run-up to the European summit on 26 and 27 March, in which you called, among other things, for the issue of so-called corona bonds. The decision on so-called coronabonds is an important policy decision. With regard to European decisions, at the meetings of the Federal Advisory Committee on European Affairs, you confirm that you are always consulting with the Länder, logically in a country like Belgium. Madam Prime Minister, where and when did the consultation with the Länder take place on the letter, signed by Belgium, addressed to Council President Michel? If that consultation took place, could you give us a report on that? How and when were the relevant federal ministers, Minister De Croo and Minister Geens, consulted?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u3	Mrs Van Bossuyt, thank you for keeping your speaking time. Since Mr Loones, Mrs Farih and Mr Verduyckt are not present, you will have the floor again for your next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u4	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, I have another question about the way in which we negotiate the Brexit. The corona crisis has inevitably affected the negotiations between the European Union and the United Kingdom, not only because certain negotiators, including Mr Barnier himself, have become ill, but also because of course there is no physical connection. However, it is important that these negotiations can be successfully concluded, which can lead to a soft Brexit. We will undoubtedly face a severe recession. Mr Barnier, the chief negotiator negotiating in the name of the European Union, is well-known for doing very often commuting diplomacy in order to bring European heads into line. However, he himself was ill and the negotiations could only be conducted digitally for a long time. As a result, the possibilities of commuting diplomacy are now quite limited. Does this mean that Belgium is experiencing a delay or a loss of involvement in the process? The British are apparently playing hardball by referring to a law that has been passed in the House of Commons and forbids them from delaying their departure any longer. The transitional period now runs until 31 December 2020. Do you still consider it possible to reach an agreement before that date, taking into account, of course, the additional efforts required by the crisis? If not, what means do you think the European Union could still use to get a postponement or to persuade the British to extend the transitional period if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u5	Mr Verduyckt has now arrived. You have the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u6	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, I was very surprised when, just after the exit group was formed, one of the members of that exit group, Mr Thijs van Electrabel, asked the government to adopt an urgent position on nuclear power plants. We also debated this in the Committee on Energy this week. I was surprised that a top man of a company, who is asked to be in a core group to serve the general interest of our country, suddenly comes forward with a letter for the benefit of his own company. I thought that was very shortsighted. Madam Prime Minister, you have already responded to this, but I was wondering. In what way did the composition of this group come to pass? Have you discussed this with Mr Thijs? What was your reaction to that letter? That seemed particularly inappropriate to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u7	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for being here. Over the past few months, our companies have been more vulnerable than ever to cyber attacks. Many workers have been forced to work at home in recent weeks and probably only 3 to 4 percent of them can work via a secure VPN connection. It is impossible for everyone to work via a secure VPN connection because of the current IT infrastructure of our companies. According to the CERT, 43.000 websites have already been created with the terms corona and COVID-19 of which 97% are malicious. One click on it is enough to take control of your smartphone, laptop or PC. The charter of the CERT would be reviewed every two years and the last revision was scheduled for 1 January 2019. Since there is no more recent charter available on the website of the CERT I have some questions. Firstly, has the planned revision been carried out? If so, what were the findings and conclusions? If not, when are you planning the review? Secondly, does the government consider the current staffing of the cybersecurity teams sufficiently strong?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u8	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for being here. On Wednesday, March 25th, an article was published in De Tijd entitled "The government warns hospitals about cyberattacks." Cyber attacks on institutions and hospitals have recently been carried out in several countries. This is usually about attacks with ransomware. In the current circumstances of a medical crisis caused by the coronavirus, an infection with ransomware is the last thing we can afford in hospitals. The article contains recommendations and measures that hospitals can take to prevent an infection with ransomware. I quote: "The security measures provided by the Belgian Computer Emergency Response Team to hospitals apply to all organisations and companies, such as installing antivirus software on all devices, VPN connections, operating with limited administrative rights, doing regular updates, making backups and all employees pointing to digital hygiene." I have the following questions, Madam Prime Minister. Do you consider that the proposed measures are sufficient to counter an attack with ransomware? Are any further measures envisaged? Will it be investigated, for example, whether vital computer systems can be connected to separate networks so that they can no longer be directly connected to the Internet and thus prevent an infection by ransomware, the loss of data and the failure of these vital systems in the various hospitals? My question was tabled at the end of March. Perhaps measures have already been taken. If so, what measures are they?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for making time for the current round of questions. Like the questions from a number of other speakers, my question dates back to April 2020. However, it is still as topical as ever. In view of the time span, I will also take the liberty of asking you a few additional questions that are somewhat more topical. We have had a whole discussion about the importance of Europe in the recovery of the economy. We have also seen in Belgium over the last few days and weeks that we are at the beginning of the decline of the economy and its concrete consequences, namely bankruptcies and job losses. Especially by Germany and France, so by Merkel and Macron, it has been made very clear that we must do unseen business because we are in an unprecedented crisis, the largest one for a hundred years. However, Belgium's reaction is very easy and almost non-existent. Madam Prime Minister, my impression is that you and a number of members of your government were very willing to go for a large recovery plan and a large recovery fund with a social pillar and with investments aimed at increasing productivity. However, the regions have stopped you. This is happening more and more often for political reasons, although the crisis is so great that it should not really play a role. My questions are as follows. Will you confirm very clearly that Belgium wants to be a driver for recovery funds that will save companies and jobs in ways that we have not seen before, given the crisis, in recent decades? Will Belgium plead for a social pillar and also for a mutualisation of debts? Madam Prime Minister, we see in Belgium that bank guarantees sometimes work and miss their purpose. For example, many SMEs, growth companies and the catering industry are currently far too little or hardly helped by our banks. That's what the first reports show. It is certainly useful that Europe should do its part here too, so I have the following supplementary question. Do you think it is your job as Prime Minister to call in Europe for consolidated support for those sectors that are most difficult, especially the growth companies, which receive far too little support in the regular context?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u10	Madam Prime Minister, the Zoom Platform is used in our videoconference committees. However, more and more indications have emerged in recent weeks that this platform would not be safe. Several messages can be found on ZDNet. The Citizen Lab of the University of Toronto has examined the Zoom Platform. A weak encryption would be used. Accounts of complete domains such as @dekamer.be could even be hacked until recently. The use of Zoom for important meetings and public services is not recommended by several authorities. Several countries and companies, including Siemens, Nasa, SpaceX, Google and the government of Taiwan have already banned the use of Zoom or strongly advised against using the platform. A large part of the Zoom data traffic also runs via servers in China. The Chinese government is authorized to access these dates on simple request. Madam Prime Minister, have you heard the comments on the safety of the Zoom Platform? How do you estimate the risks associated with the use of the Zoom Platform? Will there still be consideration of using a different platform for this purpose? Or do you consider it safe to continue using the Zoom Platform for public services despite the disturbing messages? Is the Zoom Platform used by public administrations, not only for public meetings, but also for closed meetings and/or for communicating confidential or sensitive information?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u11	Mr Delizée and Mr Vermeersch are not present at the moment. Mr Loones, I suggest that you bring your questions together with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u12	Mr President, my questions can indeed easily be grouped together. Firstly, we had a Committee on the Budget this week on European support measures and their impact on our budget. In this committee, Minister Clarinval confirmed that the plans now on the European table will also include an additional invoice for Belgium. So we will get some support, but we will also pay more. Today we are already a net contributor and that will increase, according to Minister Clarinval. Secondly, in the Finance Committee, Minister De Croo stressed that there must be a balance between solidarity and responsibility in European plans. He has also said that this balance is still insufficient today. I quote his words from the debate on the EUR 5.5 billion that we would get from the EUR 500 billion support fund. The Minister mentions this prematurely and wrongly and also says that the announced support is insufficient. Thirdly, as far as the state governments are concerned, yesterday Elio Di Rupo, Prime Minister of the Walloon Region, made it clear in a communiqué that the parameters used for the distribution of European aid, the EUR 5.5 billion we receive, are not correct because parameters are being used that are not linked to corona damage, although it is said that the corona damage is being compensated. Something's not right. Madam Prime Minister, it would be good to hear from you that you share the analysis of both your Minister for the Budget, your Minister for Finance, the Walloon Prime Minister and the other state governments that the European plans now on the table will not help the countries most affected by corona and that these parameters need to be further developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u13	Mrs. Depoorter is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u14	Prime Minister, spas and wellness centres are incomprehensible about their reopening. The CNS only plans to reopen all the centres on 1 July. I share this incomprehension of the sector because the situation of these centres in Belgium is catastrophic. Guests who have made reservations request a refund. Some say they want to enjoy French or Dutch spas as early as June 15. The border countries have indeed reopened them all. These companies are in financial difficulty and bills continue to fall. Spas have contracts with laundry facilities that cannot be terminated. Laundry continues to charge monthly fees at spa centres when they no longer pick up laundry and do not move around. I also note some inconsistencies in the sense that cottages or guest rooms currently have the possibility to open their jacuzzi and saunas to their overnight rooms. Spa centers did not wait for the crisis to apply scrupulous cleaning measures. I therefore think that it would be appropriate to allow them to be reopened without delay. Prime Minister, can you tell me when you intend to review this decision? How does your Government respond to the situation in which Belgian welfare centres are immersed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u15	Mrs Dedonder, you can ask your second question about the reopening of places of worship.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u16	Madam Prime Minister, you have recently announced that religious and philosophical cults can resume, provided that the rules of social distancing are maintained and that no gathering of more than 200 people is permitted. We can understand this decision, considering that the needs of our fellow citizens are not limited to material aspects. However, in this context, one can only be surprised: while you allow the resumption of important gatherings with regard to cults, the theatres remain closed to the public. Do you think that culture offers less spiritual food than religion? However, some cultural places are particularly suitable for maintaining social distancing measures and ensuring that the public is provided with safe sanitation. In addition, this decision limits the performance trades and artists in a very difficult financial situation. Prime Minister, how do you justify your choice of reopening churches and leaving theatres closed? Finally, when do you intend to return places dedicated to living culture to the public?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u17	Mr President, thank you to all those who have made the effort to be present and to the staff of the administrations who have prepared the answers to the many questions. Mr Verduyckt, you asked a question about the composition of the GEES, including Electrabeltopman Mr Thijs. Allow me to remind you that Mr Thijs has been a member of the Electrabel board since October 2019. Before that he worked for bpost and several private companies, including in the food sector. He can thus draw on a wide experience of the operation of many aspects of the Belgian economy. For these various reasons, he is part of the GEES together with nine other persons. They all bring in their own expertise and knowledge. The most important task of the GEES is to carry out analyses and to formulate recommendations. In other words, neither the GEES nor its members take the decisions. However, their work is essential to enable the National Security Council and the Consultation Committee to take informed decisions. The experts who are part of the GEES devote much of their time to this task, and I am very grateful to them for that. They do so on top of their professional activities. I have already spoken about the press release of Electrabel, which I said was bad timing. I think the message was very clear. With regard to the reopening of the wellness centres, Ms.Dedonder, the opening of the swimming pools and wellness centres was discussed with the GEES at the last National Security Council. As you will recall, they are scheduled to reopen on July 1, 2020. In discussions with the GEES, the government and the governments of the federated entities have always sought a fair balance between the decision-making on the exercise of these fundamental freedoms that are not withdrawn lightly, and the health situation. In order to do so, we are indeed following the advice given to us by the GEES; it was felt that, for health reasons, these centres could not yet open. I hear some people say that in other countries this can be done and that the virus is no different, whether in Belgium, Austria, Spain or the Netherlands. It must be understood, however, that crisis and virus management is a "macro" management, that is to say, we take all the rules and see how they interact with each other, trying to bring as much coherence as possible. If you decide to pick and choose and take a rule that is valid in a country and that would not be valid in our country, then you have to do the entire exercise and also see what rules are valid in our home and not elsewhere, as is the case with the Horeca, for example. No sector is therefore forgotten. We are working hard not only to set up protocols, but also to ensure that the health situation evolves sufficiently in order to be able to open up more and more. It doesn't amuse anyone to have closed areas. It does not amuse anyone to see their freedoms amputated, as is still clearly the case. If you had any doubts about this, I would like to reassure you and remind you of the planned date of 1 July. For places of worship, it's exactly the same. Discussions were initiated with representatives of the various cults. Quite clear protocols have been established, protocols that don't amuse them either. Indeed, they also find themselves with a maximum number of people who can be welcomed. It is true that the absolute will is to be able to find ourselves in a situation in which no distinction is made between places of worship and places of culture. On this point, I fully share the philosophical point of view or, in any case, the political approach. But it happens that in terms of protocols and discussions, things have not changed at the same pace for both cases. It should also be noted that there are probably fewer persons involved in the reopening of places of worship than those involved in the reopening of places of entertainment. This is simply a finding that makes it possible, in fact, to move forward gradually. Could it be considered normal, in the medium term, for a distinction to be made between places of worship and places of entertainment? No. In identical situations, the rule must be the same. I repeat, she will change from July 1st. Ms Houtmeyers, the charter of the Computer Emergency Response Team was drawn up after the integration of CERT.be into the CCB in January 2017. As the development of a new service entails many changes, it was decided to update the charter within two years. However, the date was indicative. The revision of the charter has been delayed due to the fact that other projects were given priority. However, the process has started and the revised charter is expected to be published this year. There wouldn't be any big changes. As regards staffing, the CCB had two members when it effectively started in August 2015. Since then, the service has been continuously expanded by the recruitment of statutory officials and e-gov officials. CERT.be was integrated into the CCB on 1 January 2017. At the end of 2018, the CCB had 14 statutory employees and 14 e-gov officials. Today, the CCB has 14 statutory employees and 33 e-gov officials, i.e. a total of 47 employees. The steady growth in the number of employees points to the growing importance of cybersecurity issues. Mr Gilissen, the security advice given by the Belgian Computer Emergency Response Team to our organisations and companies is intended to provide the best possible protection in the event of cyber attacks. However, 100% protection can never be guaranteed. Monitoring carried out by the CCB was extended to hospitals during the COVID-19 period. Monitoring may give rise to the publication of new opinions or direct contact with the organisations concerned to inform them of the identified vulnerabilities or infections. For this purpose, the CCB cooperates with partners who receive specific information on cyber threats against hospitals, information which is then immediately disseminated in the health sector. A Belgian network of companies specialising in cybersecurity is being developed specifically for hospitals, which voluntarily provide their expertise during the corona crisis, both preventively and during cyber incidents. That initiative led to the portal wehelpourhospitals.be, which is supported by the CCB. I would like to emphasise that each hospital is responsible for building its own IT infrastructure. The CCB can only publish general opinions on this subject. The CCB is aware of the comments on the safe use of the videoconferencing software Zoom and monitors the notifications of any vulnerabilities or incidents. In view of the explosive growth, Zoom has had some safety problems, but has simultaneously made a major effort to improve safety. The main safety problems arise from the careless use of the tool rather than from the hacking of the system. In addition, the use of cloud services generally entails a number of security risks. It is difficult to check from where the information is controlled or stored. In case of a security problem with a cloud service, a huge amount of data can suddenly be affected. It is not always clear to what extent customers are informed about this. In early April, a digital laboratory at the University of Toronto warned that in some cases the security keys are supplied by servers in China, an exceptional error according to Zoom. The CCB currently sees no reason not to recommend Zoom for private or general professional use. The videoconferencing software can be used safely if all safety requirements are complied with. The Zoom account must be protected by a strong password, the public sharing of the link to a meeting must be avoided and each meeting must be protected by a password. As a paying user, one can set the region where data can be used. Nor should the use of Zoom a priori be discouraged for the public authorities according to the objective data available to us today. For processing highly sensitive information or national essential services, the CCB recommends that cloud services and videoconferencing systems be used in particular only if sufficient additional protection measures can be taken. The risk analysis of each specific user determines whether the system can be used and what additional measures may be required. The Federal Information Security Policy, prepared under the co-ordination of the FPS Policy and Support, and the CCB's Supply Chain Process Directive of May last year, available on the CCB's website, can serve as a guide to this. Mr Crombez and Mr Loones, I come to your questions about the European Recovery Fund. Another important instrument, in addition to the three I mentioned, is the recovery fund. The European Commission presented its initiative on Next Generation on 27 May. This initiative is in addition to the existing multiannual financial framework, amounting to EUR 750 billion. This large amount will be borrowed from the financial markets against the guarantee of the EU's multi-annual budget. The maximum own resources ceiling will be increased to 2% in order to implement this guarantee. That is the maximum amount that Member States would have to pay legally. However, the effective contribution of the Member States is much lower. On the basis of the current texts it will be around 1.07 to 1.1 %. The margin between those figures and the increased ceiling will be used as a guarantee, which, at worst, will have to be paid in order to raise funds on the financial markets against that margin. This is a long-term financing, 30 years, and at very low interest rates, by the European Commission's AAA rating. The refund would not take place until 2028. The European Commission proposes that these repayments should be fully covered by the introduction of a number of new own resources. A border carbon tax, an auction scheme for allowances, an assessment of the turnover of transnational companies in the internal market and an assessment of the operation of large companies are examples of this. After all, the Commission is still adjusting the scheme to avoid additional burdens being borne by the heavily affected national budgets. The amount of EUR 750 billion consists of a mix of loans and grants, in particular EUR 250 billion in loans and EUR 500 billion in grants. I support the principle of a mix between loans and grants. In these times, it is important to strike a good balance between responsibility and solidarity. Moreover, the funds will only be granted subject to compliance with conditions. The main condition is that a national recovery plan to be drawn up can be negotiated with the Commission as part of the European Semester. On this basis, the national funds are granted in full, in part or not at all. It seems essential to me to return to the question of the mutualisation of debts. A distinction should be made between the concept of euro or coronabonds and the Next Generation proposal. The Eurobonds cover financing through the Commission of purely national debt and policy areas. The techniques proposed by the Commission aim to raise funds for the financing of the EU budget and for programmes with a European dimension. Mrs Van Bossuyt had a question about the President's letter. We have already answered this question, including in plenary, but not a problem. A number of Member States were mentioned, of course, including Luxembourg, Ireland and Slovenia. They were also in the letter. There is a lot of talk about northern and southern Europe. In fact, reality is much more nuanced. Charles Michel's letter talked about many and important elements, which were also of great importance to Belgium, such as the exchange of information on the virus, the opening up of internal borders in the internal market, the safeguarding and sharing of the production of protective clothing, the need for flexibility in the rules on state aid and the stability and growth patterns and also the measures to be taken for the economy. This letter does not call for the introduction of coronabonds, but it stated that we should be able to start working on the introduction of a common debt instrument. This is only one aspect of a wide range of economic support measures in this exceptional crisis. The fact that Belgium expresses its conceptual openness to partial and conditioned mutualisation of debt is not new. It was even included in the Di Rupo government's coalition agreement at one time and former Prime Minister Leterme expressed himself to that effect at European level. As such, this discussion has undoubtedly passed several times since the 1990s in DGE consultation, in which the Regions are also represented and therefore also your party. Nevertheless, this is a federal matter. On this subject, my cabinet held consultations with the Cabinets of colleagues Geens and De Croo. The latter also defended this position in the Eurogroup. Your question once again gives me the opportunity to talk about the substance of the matter. Belgium supports this concept because, in these difficult times, we recognise the danger that one or more large economies in the European Union and in the euro area would go deeper. This would automatically mean that the whole euro area, and perhaps even the world economy, would end up in a very delicate situation. For reasons of solidarity and well-understood self-interest for our own economy, we must therefore keep all possible options behind us. After all, these figures and statistics hide people, people whose efforts we are calling for today and who may also have to fear for their jobs, careers or future prospects. That is why Belgium wants to keep an open mind. Mr Loones, you had an interesting question about the parameters. That's a real topical question. I just want to stress that topical questions can be answered in plenary. This question was not written, so that makes it very difficult for my team to give a decent answer. It is true that there are still questions about the parameters used to assess the situation and the Commission's proposals. We are aware of this. I have already underlined this with certain colleagues. If we decide to use parameters in this exercise, they must also be COOVID-19-related. Mrs Van Bossuyt, following the outbreak of the corona crisis, negotiations between the UK and the EU have been delayed. Both main negotiators, Michel Barnier for the EU and David Frost for the UK, have had to put themselves in isolation for some time because of established corona contamination. That means they were working a lot before. That could happen to anyone. Both, however, recovered and different rounds of negotiations by videoconference between themselves and the thematic experts negotiators took place in recent weeks. A summit, in particular a high-level conference, between the European Union and the United Kingdom, is scheduled for Monday 15 June 2020. Prime Minister Johnson, Commission President von der Leyen and the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, took part. The expectations for this video contact are very small. The European Council of 19 June 2020 may also consider the issue. However, there is little to discuss at the moment. The loss of involvement does not seem to be the case. However, it is true that at the beginning of this week the EU's main negotiator, Mr Barnier, confirmed to me that little progress has been made in the discussions. He has also confirmed that an extension of the transition period is very unlikely. The British Government has already made it clear that it does not intend to request an extension of the transitional period. It has also indicated that it does not intend to grant an extension if the European Union so requests, whatever the European Union has not done. At this stage, there is no indication that there will be any delay. However, if that is the case, it can only be considered if both parties so wish. On the basis of the negotiations, I can still say that overall progress can only be expected in September or October 2020 if any kind of progress can be made. Mr President, I have been able to answer all the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u18	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, I asked two questions. I shall begin with the reply to my second question on the Brexit and the negotiations on it. I belong to you in the same pessimism as earlier this week with Minister of Foreign Affairs Goffin, unfortunately. I hope that Belgium will continue to argue for it and will do everything in its power to reach a trade agreement with the United Kingdom. That is very important for our country. My other question was about the coronabonds and the letter you sent, along with eight other Member States. You said that you had already discussed this in plenary. I do not think it was specifically about that letter at the time, although I have referred to it on occasion. You replied positively to my question whether there was any consultation with Minister De Croo and Minister Geens. You also said that there was consultation with the Länder. However, I explicitly asked to be able to obtain the report from that consultation. Since you are now saying that there has been a consultation, I expect to receive the report from that consultation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u19	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. In your reply, you say that the GEES does not make any decisions. That's right, because we're counting on you and the government for decisions. I'm glad you said it was a bad timing, because that was absolutely the case, I think that's even an understatement. We did not know at that time what the world would look like a few months later, and we do not always know it today either. The fact that there were statements at the time about how to organise our electricity market in five years' time did not seem to me to be a good thing. In this respect, Electrabel hasn't shown itself on her best side in recent weeks. It was only after many fives and sixs that it was decided not to restart some of the nuclear power plants that came out of maintenance because at that time we were already at negative prices and windmills had to be disconnected from the sea. I consider the GEES to be very important for the general interest. In my opinion, Mr Thijs and Electrabel have not done a very good job here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u20	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. The CERT is very important for our companies. We absolutely must ensure that we do not weaken our businesses further by, for example, cyber attacks. This is the kind of investment that we consider important in the N-VA. With regard to aid measures, we cannot continue to throw money at them. This means that it takes courage to make certain decisions and not to take one step but two steps forward. In this way, we can also remain competitive with neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u21	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. With regard to the cyber attacks on hospitals, I note that the CCB is taking some initiatives to ensure safety. I can only hope that one can keep one's finger on the wrist, so that one can intervene quickly if a dangerous situation arises where hospitals would be targeted by ransomware. At the moment, the Zoom platform does not use end-to-end encryption, which makes it easy to intercept video streams. Such end-to-end encryption is currently being developed. One takes steps to make it safer, but that feature will only become available to paying users and then only if they stream from a laptop or a fixed PC, and not from smartphones and tablets. I do not need to emphasise in this context that it is important not to communicate sensitive or confidential information via the Zoom Platform in the interests of state security.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u22	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answers, for your thanks to the people of the administration who have prepared and for thanking us for our presence. The latter was very sweet but didn't have to because we are not exactly being reimbursed for this. Your response to what Europe intends to do on additional resources is quite spectacular compared to Belgium's public attitude towards Europe. In short, you say that the margin of contribution versus the funds received will be used to place funds to be repaid from 2028 onwards. It is intended that this should not be included in the national budgets because it would create European revenue for reimbursement. This is a matter of solidarity with regard to responsibility, and I agree with that. You also said that it was the only time you really spoke about this that this way of working, with the distribution of subsidies and loans, will receive your support. This shows that your commitment to this unprecedented European intervention in an unprecedented crisis is certain. Madam Prime Minister, Belgium is giving an almost non-existent or very lukewarm response to public opinion outside Europe, to Europe. The reason for this is that Belgium wants to react together with the various subgovernments and because you were whistled back. There's no other way. We have always played a role in Europe at the most difficult moments, we are the European capital, we are home to the European institutions and we have already delivered most European presidents because we can provide solutions in difficult conditions within Europe. This is something we can no longer do in Belgium, but we can do in Europe. We are now facing an unprecedented crisis that has yet to begin in terms of bankruptcies and redundancies, with a Europe that shows itself and a Belgium, of which you are the Prime Minister, which does not express itself. I very much regret that, but I would particularly like to ask you, in view of the answer you have given here, to speak out very specifically about the reimbursement from 2028 onwards with a new European budget. You must tell the sub-governments that these are not normal circumstances and that they have political reflexes as if the circumstances were normal. It's purely political. It is not about the quality of the recovery and the need to tackle the crisis hard, it is a purely political reflex of the sub-governments that is holding back your communication. This is the third time I have asked you to make a clear statement on the major interventions that Europe can and must take to combat this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u23	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. We had already understood that the wellness centres could be reopened from 1 July. I also understand that the GEES has to make this assessment over and over again and that a balance has to be sought over and over again. After your answer, however, it is still unclear to me why certain contact professions can start and not private saunas. They can do so in a very safe way, even without any contact. There must be at least a distinction between the large wellness centres and the private saunas, where we can still work in a very different way and where we can almost perfectly meet all the safety requirements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u24	Madam Prime Minister, my evaluation is different from that of Mr Crombez. We have heard a Prime Minister speaking clearly today. You did that with respect for the context. This is a very topical discussion and you would like to obtain additional information on it. However, you have drawn a very clear line. You specifically say that European support must be a balance between responsibility and solidarity. You also say that in order to achieve that balance, parameters must be chosen which are clearly linked to the corona crisis and that this is not the case today. The European Commission is currently using three parameters for the corona distribution, namely population, GDP per capita and unemployment benefits, but for the years 2015 to 2019, i.e. before the corona crisis. Of course, that's not right. European aid should be linked to the corona crisis, as you yourself said, with parameters linked to the crisis and thus to the year 2020 and not the four years before. I am pleased with the answer you have given. You know that we are a little concerned that you would blindly pursue European President Charles Michel. Here and there the question is whether we are too South-European. Today, however, I have heard a Prime Minister aligning himself with a number of other countries. There is growing criticism within Europe from the Czech Republic, the Netherlands, Lithuania and Ireland, among others. They ask questions about the parameters. We would like to invite you not to lose sight of these interests either. Yes, we need a European recovery fund, but its elaboration must be done correctly. We have our own interests to protect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u25	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand, of course, the health reasons. Health is and remains a top priority. However, I also understand that the situation in each country is different. It is not a matter of copying and pasting measures that would help us. However, I hear that this sector is extremely affected, as I explained earlier. Where I live, on the French border, it is obvious that Belgians will, from 15 June, go to wellness centres in France. It is obvious that Liegeois will visit the same centres in the Netherlands. The same applies to all those who go to spas and jacuzzi in cottages and guest rooms. In these places, here and elsewhere, the health risks are the same. We could imagine a faster reopening, as is the case with massage centers, by imposing strict rules, whether in terms of cleaning or the bubbles you had talked about at length. We can go to a family wellness center, staying in his bubble. This limits the risk of spread of the virus. Common sense and flexibility should be given to the centres that allow it, by imposing strict measures on them. This would already relieve the sector a little bit. I'll let you think about it again, and I'll keep hope. As far as your answer to my question about places of culture is concerned, I understand that they will all reopen at the same time on 1 July. As you said, there are fewer people in places of worship. Therefore, could we not imagine different openings depending on the configuration of the rooms? With this in mind, we could consider reopening more quickly the rooms which offer the possibility of some social distancing. I also leave this suggestion to your reflection. In any case, such a staggering measure would greatly assist the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate the time savings by referring to the text of the questions tabled. I cannot, of course, avoid an oral answer. It is very difficult to calculate the exact number of victims of ransomware. Unfortunately, there's a big dark number. Private victims rarely report such an attack and also companies are not happy to announce that they were victims of ransomware. In addition to the financial losses, the image damage to a company can also be significant. Mrs Depraetere, I do not have the data stored by Meldpunt Belgium. The Contact Point Belgium is a collaboration of the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain, the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products, the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service, the Federal Police, the FPS Finance and the FPS Economy. However, I can provide you with the data that cert.be, the operational service of the Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium, has collected. Incidents can also be reported on the website of cert.be. In 2018, CERT received 1,600 incident reports. In 2019 that figure increased significantly, because last year CERT received 4,484 notifications, an increase of 180 %. As already indicated, these figures do not provide a complete picture. Companies do not always report when they were victims of a cyber incident and do not always file complaints. In addition, last year the CERT could have become more famous, which led to more companies reporting. The main types of reported incidents are phishing fraud, ransomware and computer viruses. In 2018, the CERT received 49 ransomware notifications, in 2019 93 notifications. In 2019, the CCB received 1,700,000 suspicious phishing mails and was able to block on average several dozen phishing sites per day. The improvement of corporate cyber security is an important objective of the CCB. To sensitise companies, the CCB conducts an annual awareness campaign and online webinars. For example, in October 2018, the CCB organised a national awareness campaign for citizens and businesses about making backups and updating. In October 2019 the CCB organised a awareness campaign on phishing. The CCB also published an online webinar on cyber security for professional organisations on its website. Through this online basic training, professional organisations are made aware of the dangers to their IT infrastructure and receive practical advice to protect themselves. In addition to awareness raising, the CCB informs companies about the measures to be taken to increase the level of cybersecurity within their business. CERT regularly publishes opinions or opinions and white papers on its website. They aim to disseminate thematic, technical information to ICT professionals and inform them about how to deal with certain cyber attacks and threats. In 2016, the CCB published a cybersecurity guide for SMEs. The guide provides a simple framework so that SMEs can integrate their activities safely into a worldwide and permanently available online market. In spring 2018, the CCB published an online cybersecurity reference guide in collaboration with the Cybersecurity Coalition and the FPS Economy. The guide provides an overview of basic and more advanced cybersecurity measures for professional organisations. The CCB relies on the Cybersecurity Coalition Belgium for its action towards the companies. Since 2015, this coalition brings together representatives of the public sector, the private sector and the academic world in an organisation. In addition, the CCB supports the annual Belgian Cyber Security Convention for companies. The CCB is also a partner at the No More Ransom Portal, which is an initiative of the Dutch Police Team HighTech Crime, Europol's European Cybercrime Centre and two cybersecurity companies with the aim of helping victims of ransomware recover their encrypted files without paying the criminals. Finally, the CCB manages safeonweb.be, an information portal that aims to quickly and correctly inform and advise citizens about cybersecurity, major current digital threats and online security. Mrs Houtmeyers and Mr Gilissen, you asked me about the economic impact of the cyber attacks. There is currently no official assessment of the financial damage to the Belgian economy. The Cyber Security Coalition estimates the cost of cybercrime at around €3.5 billion, which is more than 1% of GDP. However, there is no evidence that Belgium would be more the victim of cyber attacks than other countries. In the Global Cybersecurity Index, Belgium has increased to the top five of more cyber-safe EU countries in recent years. Mr Gilissen, you have come back to the question of ransom. It is not recommended to pay ransom, especially as this does not guarantee a solution to the problem. Victims who have paid ransom have indicated that a higher amount was demanded from them after the first payment. In some cases, the victim was again hit by the same ransomware after a while. If the ransom is paid, it also encourages cybercriminals to use ransomware, as it is a profitable business. Cyber criminals will therefore continue their activities and seek new ways to exploit the system with more infections, more victims and more money in their accounts. Mrs Depraetere, you had very specific questions about the situation of Picanol. Only Picanol itself can of course calculate the total of the damage suffered from the attack of the ransomware attack. Several costs must be charged, of which the CCB has no knowledge: the ransom paid or not, the cost of the cessation of production, the image damage incurred, the possible loss of customers to competition due to possible late deliveries, etc. Similarly, only Picanol can answer the questions about the consequences for the future of the company and its employees. Mrs Depraetere and Mr Gilisssen, you are concerned about the data protection of public services. I would like to point out that several initiatives have been taken in recent years to strengthen the data protection of public services. Specifically, the Prime Minister's ICT services protect data according to MARX standards, antivirus, backup, patching of infrastructure and applications, security monitoring, awareness of technicians and the use of ransomware, incident and crisis management, management of infrastructure rights and users on the network, infrastructure audit and processes. Other services have taken other measures which have also taken account of their specific situation. Mrs Houtmeyers, your first question was about the types of servers that would be particularly vulnerable to cyber attacks. In this context, I would like to point out that it is not the type of server, but the management of the server that determines its cyber security. Vulnerable servers are usually not patched regularly or unpatched, depending on the installed application, unmonitored servers, as well as unprotected servers, directly connected to the internet servers or servers managed by an admin manager with a weak password are vulnerable. Mrs Houtmeyers, you also had questions about the number of companies insured against the consequences of cyber attacks and taking cybersecurity into account by banks when providing credit. I have no specific data to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u27	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your comprehensive answer. We can all see that the figures, even though they may not be complete and even if they are not complete, are disturbing. A while ago, I asked Mrs Muylle for the figures on Internet fraud, phishing and so on from the consumer. This is, as in the case of Internet fraud in companies, on the increase. That's what we're worried about. It is good to hear that there is a very strong commitment to sensitizing. The question is, of course, whether that is enough. The figures continue to rise, so there is still a lot of work to be done. It is certainly a subject on which we will have to make even greater efforts in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u28	Mr President, Prime Minister, an increase of 180 percent, an estimated EUR 3.5 billion, because not all the figures are known, they are worrying figures. Above all, we need to increase awareness of people, businesses and private individuals in order to increase cyber security. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for being here and answering the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u29	Mr President, Prime Minister, communication and awareness are certainly good. It is good that this is already happening. It is absolutely necessary, given the figures you have just given. There is therefore an absolute need for further communication and awareness-raising, especially for the smaller SMEs who are often mainly involved in running their business and to a lesser extent in cybersecurity. They are therefore particularly vulnerable. Moreover, the corona crisis has often made them even more vulnerable. We must therefore be absolutely committed to protection. That's what I just mentioned. When N-VA talks about investment, these are absolutely necessary investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u30	Prime Minister, this issue dates back to February, but the problem remains. On 31 January, the newspaper L'Écho revealed that an employee of the UCM had been seconded to various liberal ministerial offices while continuing to be partially paid by the UCM, through the payment of his company car. This person had been seconded to Mrs. Laruelle's office, then she found herself at Charles Michel's and finally at your own house. It should be noted that such practices exist with ministers from other parties. While GRECO blames Belgium for its shortcomings in the fight against conflicts of interest, this situation seems rather serious to me. It is far from unique, as there are other ministers or ex-ministers – De Block, Marghem, Reynders, Vandeput) who had conflict of interest problems with members of their cabinet. In a written question to Charles Michel in 2018, I asked how many members of his cabinet had found themselves in potential conflict of interest situations since the beginning of the legislature. He said "none." Madam Prime Minister, in what successive cabinets was Mr.Krenc seconded from, on what dates, and with what part of the remuneration coming from the UCM? When Charles Michel answered my question on September 28, 2018, was Mr.Krenc part of his firm? Is he then partially paid by the UCM? You yourself did not feel that the presence in your office of a seconded person, partially remunerated by an employer's organization, was a problem? Or is there no problem? Is there currently, in your government's ministerial offices, and in yours, other people who are wholly or partly paid by private actors? Finally, do you not fear that, as GRECO points out, the government is far too lax in the fight against conflicts of interest?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u31	Mr Van Hees, thank you for your question. In response, I would like to inform you that Mr.Krenc was seconded, but you yourself told Minister Laruelle's office from January 2012 to October 2014. He was first an expert, then he became a member of the strategic cell, 90% occupied. He was also paid 10 per cent of his gross salary under his contract of employment signed in March 2007 at UCM. Since October 2014, Mr.Krenc has been in the Prime Minister's office as an advisor, under the same terms and conditions. Mr Krenc confirmed that the remuneration which had been paid by the UCM corresponded to missions actually carried out. It also confirms that we have on its own initiative given all its representative mandates related to its function at the UCM. He no longer takes part in the positioning of the UCM on the files and does not represent it in any organ or media. It is clear that this situation does not in any way call into question the firm's freedom of public positioning and expression or that of the UCM. In fact, you will not have escaped that on several occasions, the UCM has been able to be extremely critical of some of the files managed by the government. Mr Krenc has been recruited on the basis of his experience in socio-economic matters and of the professional network which he has thus formed and which enables him to come into contact with a wide range of actors in the socio-economic sphere: group of ten, professional federations, employers' organisations, trade unions. As far as other firms are concerned, I invite you to speak directly to my colleagues. More generally, the wealth of a firm is based on the human resources that make up it: contractual agents, statutory agents, self-employed, employees. Employees are recruited on the basis of their skills, their ability to be rapidly operational in their respective subjects and their availability, given the intense and often unpredictable pace of work life. If, legally, nothing prevents a member of a private organization from performing functions within a strategic body or a ministerial collaborator from moving into the private sector, it goes without saying that duties of reserve and discretion are of course to be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u32	Madam Prime Minister, thank you, even if you have not answered my question explicitly. I take it that, when Charles Michel answers me in 2018, no collaborator in his firm is in a situation of potential conflict of interest, although Mr.Krenc worked there as early as 2014, which means that Mr.Charles Michel is not telling the truth. Not only is there a problem of conflict of interest and transparency, but also a counter-truth appears in the answers to parliamentary questions. I find this all the more serious as you continue to legitimize these practices, explaining that the persons concerned are competent and necessary and that the law does not prohibit them. In short, you justify these conflicts of interest. For example, some are at Lockheed Martin and work for Defence, while others are employed by Electrabel while occupying a position in the cabinet of the Minister of Energy. And I'm not even talking about cabinets dealing with pharmaceutical groups. It is therefore problematic that neither your predecessors nor yourself put an end to it and, on the contrary, continue to justify conflicts of interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u33	Mr President, allow me to open a small parenthesis. Yesterday, a colleague pointed out that a certain Flahaut was working in Mr. Goffin's office. I told him it wasn't me or my son. The question may have to be asked by Minister Goffin or the Prime Minister to make that clear. [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u34	Thank you, Mr Flahaut!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u35	Prime Minister, this issue dates back to early February 2020. We have the answer four months later. I guess we can't be both in Davos and in the House to answer the Members. Prime Minister, there was nothing to force you to follow the tradition of your predecessors. So you chose to go to the Davos Forum, on 21 and 22 January 2020, to this great mass of great capital where politicians from all over the world come to drink to the good word of the leaders of multinationals, while trying to sell them, as in the slave market, the assets of their country and its labour force. This is, it seems, what you did, in a Belgian Power Reception, during which you would have introduced the workers of our country by talking about "loyal and flexible" human capital. All that was missing was the adjective "disposable", and you would have summarized the situation of GSK's staff who, at the time of the question, had just learned of a vast plan of layoffs. What is the budget you have committed for the Belgian delegation's participation in Davos? Your program included 13 bilateral meetings. Who were the interlocutors of these meetings? How many of them were representatives of the business world? Have you met any GSK representatives in Davos? Could you provide the documents or PowerPoint presented by the Belgian authorities at this Belgian Power Reception?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u36	Mr President, this is great Van Hees, if I may say so! You implied, in the introduction to your question, that I did not answer it in February because I was in Davos. Mr Van Hees, we have just experienced one of the greatest crises in our health history. I regret: I want to have a sense of humour, I appreciate the criticism, I love the constructive debate, but this is very special, if not totally unworthy! But I'll answer your question by trying to get out of your cartoons. There's no problem. The Davos Forum brings together business leaders as well as policy makers, academic and NGO representatives, as well as journalists, to discuss the most pressing issues we face and reflect on tomorrow's society. These exchanges allow, when they are constructive, Mr Van Hees, to confront ideas perhaps but sometimes also to arrive at convergences. This year, the community was invited to take part in the debate, where climate change was an important part of the debate. With regard to the cost of participation, i.e. the displacement of the sovereigns, the Deputy Prime Minister, security, journalists, advisers and myself, it is €76,476.72, including the cost of organizing the Belgian Power Reception. If you would like more details, I can submit a written answer. Nowhere else is it possible to meet so many heads of state and business in 48 hours and, if each of them had to meet all these actors one by one, it would have taken a lot of time and it would have been much more expensive. In addition to the many informal contacts that take place in this type of international event, I have had no less than 15 bilateral meetings with a number of important actors. For example, I met Carlos Brito, the CEO of AB Inbev, Lakshmi Mittal, the CEO of ArcelorMittal, who, you may or may not know, represent 3 235 and 5 800 direct jobs respectively in Belgium. And when you care about jobs in your country, you have to meet those people too. I have met Mr Patawari, CEO of Gemini, whose headquarters are in Belgium and who is at the forefront of innovation in terms of recycling, an essential element – you will agree – in the fight against climate change and for the protection of the environment. I also met Novartis CEO, Mr Narasimhan, an important player in the debate on access to medicines. You will also remember the case of the little Pia who has mobilized us all so much. As far as I'm concerned, I'd rather be in action than in slogans. I know that some major topical issues need to be addressed with the business world, with a view to providing answers. These must be developed by meeting people. Of course, now, with the crisis of the VOCID-19, it's more difficult. But when it is possible, not taking advantage of these opportunities would be a mistake. I also had discussions with other economic actors. I am thinking here of the President of the DRC, with the UN Special Envoy for Syria, the Director of the IMF. You probably also know that I have discussed at length with the CEO of Oxfam India, who officially represented the NGO at the Forum and with whom I was able to discuss the NGO's findings on social inequalities. I fully assume that one of the objectives of these bilateral meetings was to defend Belgian assets with potential new investors, as well as the Belgian Power Reception organised in the presence of our sovereigns and Deputy Prime Minister Alexander De Croo, during which, to answer your question, no document was distributed. In a globalized world and with an open economy like ours, depriving oneself of such contacts would have been a huge mistake. I have already said it and I repeat it because I really believe it: our country has many assets at the forefront of which, indeed, a human capital that we must defend and put forward, of which we can be proud. It is this human capital that would be the first victim of the retreat that you are advocating. Of course, I am wrong about this vision. Indeed, as Prime Minister, my wish is, of course, to make our country stronger, more prosperous, more stable for all our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u37	Madam Prime Minister, we can indeed be very proud of the world of work in Belgium, very competent, very trained, composed of extraordinary people, very flexible but sometimes too flexible because of the legislation. The problem is precisely how you sell the workers to these multinational bosses. If I take the first two bosses you mentioned – Mr Brito and Mr Mittal – their multinationals are characterised in two ways: they have benefited from huge tax gifts in Belgium, often granted in the name of employment; they have implemented particularly harmful redundancies plans. Of course, it's your vision to try to seduce the bosses by giving them gifts. But there is never a counterparty from these multinationals. They receive lots of gifts and they can lead the policy they want and lay off as they want. That was the case with GSK when you went to Davos.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u38	Madam Prime Minister, on 4 March, according to the media, your cabinet had a constructive meeting with Lockheed Martin. Some time ago, Minister of Economy Kris Peeters announced a societal return of 3.7 billion euros in the purchase of 34 F-35 fighter aircraft. This is a very important return which makes a difference for the companies in our country. A few months later, however, it turned out that this return was not guaranteed at all. After all, all contracts had to be negotiated and they could also go to companies in other countries. Agoria warned of this from the outset and suggested setting up a control mechanism to monitor the agreements with the various companies and to support them in the negotiations. Madam Prime Minister, I have three questions about this. Firstly, is there now a monitoring mechanism to follow up the return, the essential security interests as it is officially called? Second, is it true that your cabinet had discussions with Lockheed Martin? What conclusions do you draw from this consultation? Thirdly, several sources warn of a very low return. Retrieving these contracts would not be as smooth as foreseen. According to L'Echo, both parts of the country can expect a maximum of EUR 700 million in industrial revenues. That is, in fact, very little, especially compared to the EUR 3.7 billion promised. What is the state of play and what expectations are realistic? Is a return of EUR 3.7 billion still feasible? What guarantees has our country received from the United States in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u39	Mrs Depraetere, on 4 March I met the representatives of Lockheed Martin to discuss the state of play on the partnership between the US and the Belgian government for the replacement of our air combat capacity. That meeting was initially planned in the framework of the Munich Security Conference in February, which I unfortunately could not attend. As a reminder, on October 25, 2018, the government decided to buy 34 F-35s. Almost seventeen months after that decision, I felt that we should take stock of the situation. The European Commission no longer allows the use of the system of economic compensation in the context of military purchases. As a result, competitive tenderers were given the opportunity to include measures to protect essential security interests in their tender for the replacement of air combat capacity. Those measures can strengthen the Belgian industry and technological defence base through the different domains defined in the document entitled "Belgian defence interests in the field of defence and security policy', adopted by the Government on 28 October 2016. To strengthen that approach, the file on the purchase of F-35's offers opportunities to protect the essential security interests and contains two components. The first component concerns the sustainable workload assignment, managed by the US government. Its aim is to involve European users in the maintenance contracts of the F-35s used in Europe. This process is anchored in the Memorandum of Under-Agency, MoU; between the Belgian State and the United States and will allow the Belgian industry to participate in the competition for maintenance activities for the F-35 parts used in Europe. The award will be based on the most competitive tender. The Belgian industry should be able to participate in such competition in 2020 for the maintenance activities of the F-35 parts. The second component concerns a portfolio of 43 ESI projects to be carried out by Lockheed Martin and Pratt & Whitney. The two companies have undertaken to implement these projects through the development of implementation agreements with the Belgian industry. It is up to the Belgian industry to translate these opportunities into practice; our companies will have to prove that they are competitive, in terms of supply time and quality and commercial. Although the realisation of the ordinary possibilities remains primarily the responsibility of the industrial players to which these measures relate, the federal government supports our industry to ensure the success of this new process. You will agree with me that this process is quite complex and totally different from the economic compensation approach of the past. The resources for state intervention are very limited within the legal framework. My meeting with Lockheed Martin took place in this context. The federal government has made available EUR 277 million in the form of repayable advances in support of the implementation agreements concluded with Lockheed Martin and Pratt & Whitney. The follow-up shall be ensured by the Interfederal Consultation Platform with the regions and industry and on a daily basis by the Federal Platform for the Management of the ESI Measures. Indeed, an estimate of the expected economic benefits had been made during the evaluation of the tender. Right now, there's no evidence to question this estimate. Today we see that in general there is a good dynamic between Belgian companies, Lockheed Martin and Pratt & Whitney. Companies are working on the challenges they face and implementing agreements are being concluded. We all know that the health crisis we are going through today will have serious economic and social consequences. The aviation industry, including civil aviation, will also be seriously affected. That is all the more reason to help our companies position themselves in today's and future military markets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u40	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. I agree that we are officially discussing essential security interests, which I also mentioned in my question. In practice, that actually amounts to the same thing. It's about getting back to our economy from part of the investments that our country makes, also to create jobs. That's very important. As you said, we are already in a crisis and it will be very difficult for the sector. If it appears once again that the economic return to the companies will be much lower than estimated, this is quite disastrous for the many jobs at stake. The essential security interests were one of the criteria for awarding the contract to Lockheed Martin. They played along and were not a non-binding point in the offer. They have also been one of the reasons why Lockheed Martin was finally chosen. A lot of promises were made by Minister Peeters. It is therefore very disappointing for our industry that it is only an estimate and that the counter may well be much lower in the future. I would therefore urge our companies to support and ensure that the return meets the expectations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u41	Prime Minister, under the previous legislature, a text co-signed by the PS and sp.a requested the partial opening of the Royal Laeken Estate to the public. In the near future, in the Brussels Parliament, a debate will take place on the opening to the public of the Val-Duchesse estate, a 25-hectare estate in the territory of Brussels, crossed by the waters of the Woluwe. Madam Prime Minister, what is your position on the possible opening – even partial – of green spaces currently closed and managed by your Chancellery or the federal state, notably via the Régie des Bâtiments? Will any initiatives be taken in this area or are they about to be carried out in coordination with the relevant regional and local authorities? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u42	Mr Aouasti, the question of the partial opening of green areas managed by the Federal State must be analysed on a case-by-case basis in view of the specificities of each. As for Val-Duchesse, this domain belongs to the Royal Donation. Since 1930, it has been managed by the Régie des Bâtiments with since 2016 the Chancellery. Since 2016, the domain has been used for activities related to the function of the Prime Minister such as holding international meetings. It also serves to welcome Heads of State and Government. For security reasons, you will understand that it is not currently possible to make the domain permanently accessible. On the other hand, one-off accesses were allowed at events such as Heritage Days or Water Days. They are then supervised by the local police. I am, of course, prepared to consider other ad hoc requests of this kind. There is no doubt about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-12-55-commissie-ic206x.u43	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your brief reply, which reflects your openness. I also mean, through the absence of a response, that there has been no special consultation with regional or local authorities on other possibilities. I will therefore refer to this question of one-off openings, because this summer, and for the rest of the year, we will need green spaces in Brussels. Even on an episodic basis, they will be welcome.
