ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u1	Minister, this is not your first time on this committee, but it is your first question-and-answer session. Until what time are you available?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u2	Mr. President, I'm available until 6:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u3	Mr President, a month ago I sent in a number of questions that did not appear on the agenda. It is not entirely clear to me where exactly it has gone wrong, in the secretariat or in the cabinet. It seems to me that it would be best if these questions were included on the agenda and that the secretariat would explain why the questions could not be dealt with. In this case, I understand that the cabinet did not receive the questions because of a technical problem. Could that be cleared up? Most of the time, as Members of Parliament, we have to wait quite a long time before the government responds. These are questions that I submitted a month ago, and now I have to wait for another order of questions before they are brought forward, even though I did submit them in good time. Maybe that could be cleared up for a while?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u4	Mrs Van Camp, this morning I was indeed informed of a technical problem. Apparently, the cabinet wasn't informed about two of your questions through the platform. It is a technical problem, which led the cabinet to receive the content of your questions only yesterday afternoon. It was too late to draw up an answer. The secretariat informed me that it was unfortunately too late to give you an answer today. I apologize for that. I do not know whether the minister is aware of this issue. I regret that there was a technical problem. It is not on the agenda, unfortunately the minister has no answer for you today. I suggest you put it first next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u5	Mr President, I have answers for Mrs Van Camp, but I have only been a minister for one month. Some of the questions that were tabled by Mrs Van Camp a long time ago have only been received yesterday or the day before yesterday. We tried to answer it to the maximum, but I can't do miracles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u6	The problem is that the question is not on the agenda. As chairman of the committee, I will follow the agenda. I have no choice. We may not be able to deal with all the questions this afternoon, but I would suggest that Mrs Van Camp's question at the next committee meeting be dealt with as the first item on the agenda. I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u7	Mr President, Minister, I will start with a series of questions on the Kempen. The missing questions, which hopefully will be discussed next time, are also about the Kempen. You have been in office for a month now and I hope you have already been able to get to know the Kempen, a region with half a million inhabitants, many of which are also going to work in Brussels. As far as train connections are concerned, we have a lot of frustration and that is what I am asking. It's been for years. Why am I saying that you may have already been in touch with our region? If you have taken on the punctuality figures of SNCB, you will find that our line Turnhout-Brussels-Binche is at the bottom of the line. I think it's one of the least punctual lines in your wallet. That has been the case for years. It has become worse with the branch of the Turnhout-Brussels link on the sick connection with Binche. We have been asking for a solution to this, together with all our colleagues in Kempen, for years. I think that SNCB has now finally ensured that this will be achieved in the next major amendment to the transport plan in 2023. I would have liked to hear some harsh words from you as a minister. Can you assure us that a solution will finally be found for Turnhout-Brussels-Binche in 2023? Are you going to solve this least punctual connection of all? Perhaps you could also tell us if you have any other plans for this line until 2023. Can we expect any improvements there?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, the advantage of being Minister of Mobility is also that I get to know my country even better. SNCB informs me that she has seen many improvements in the punctuality of the trains in the Kempen since 2019. However, the IC11 Turnhout-Brussels-Binche connection remains insufficient, as you indicate. The main reasons for this are single-track sections, intersections on busy sections, working at Mechelen and Vilvoorde stations, heavy train traffic on lines 96 and 25 and the Brussels North-South link. There is a slight improvement in punctuality thanks to a number of adjustments, but it remains a concern both for me and for all Kempenaars. At present, technical constraints hinder a solution in the short term. SNCB hopes, as you said, to be able to propose a more structural solution for passengers on this line in 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I am pleased that you have officially confirmed that a solution will finally be found in 2023 for the punctuality of the Turnhout-Brussels-Binche line. I will question you several more times about the file. You are also responding to the fact that technical problems hinder a rapid solution. They can, however, continue to drag on for years to come. So I will certainly continue to follow up on the fact that the examination of the solution will be done in good time, so that we will be ready to introduce the solution in 2023.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u10	Mr President, Minister, the Kempenaar is dependent on rail links. That's one of our first frustrations. The motorways E313 and E34 have a lot of congestion, so the Kempenaar is very dependent on rail transport. As a green minister, you will be pleased to hear that. However, we have some limitations. The first one we have just discussed is the punctuality of our connections and, more specifically, the turnhout-Brussels-Binche line. A second limitation is the offer. One of the reasons why the offer is limited is because a large part happens on a single track. This reduces the capacity of train traffic to Turnhout, our Flemish city centre in the Kempen. We have been asking for years to see if the railway between Herentals and Turnhout can be doubled. Are you going to include that in your policy? Are you going to work on this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u11	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, Infrabel informs me that a double track between Herentals and Turnhout was not included in the Flemish priorities when selecting the projects in the strategic multi-annual investment plan. You know that there is a dialogue between the federal state and SNCB and the regions. Flanders has not identified this as a priority, but that can always change, and I know that you know people in the Flemish government. With the current offer the trains can cross in Tielen, says Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u12	Minister, what you are saying about the crossing in Tielen is correct, but it remains, of course, problematic, especially in terms of capacity building. I will include it together with our Liberal colleagues, so that it will be on the list of priorities. I understood that this was mainly about extra investment and that SNCB and yourself as federal minister could do additional projects, but I understand that you did not stop this project and that you would like to include it if we put it on the Flemish priority list. For that I will certainly do the necessary lobbying work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u13	Mr President, Minister, in addition to the punctuality and the offer, a third frustration of the commuting Kempenaar is the equipment with which we are saddled, which you can quite literally take, because although two M6 double-deck trains are currently being deployed and the offer will soon expand, we still have a lot of obsolete couples. For example, the M4 vehicles and, even worse, the renovated so-called pig noses are still being used, which we said at the time was a very bad idea to invest in, especially since there is no air conditioning available. The route from Kempen to Brussels is also a very long one. When you visit our region, in which you are very welcome, on better weather, you will see that it is really a tragedy. A few weeks ago, the trade unions also complained that it is actually irresponsible to allow staff to work in such circumstances, but of course that also applies to travellers who experience a lack of comfort. Minister, what about the rolling stock in globo on your department? Do you have any improvements specific to the Kempen?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u14	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, the general intention is to improve the rolling stock for everyone, for the Kempenaars, as for all the inhabitants of Belgium. In relation to your question, SNCB informs me that she too is aware of the demand from the Kempen for the most modern train equipment. SNCB does point out that it is already using six trains on the Turnhout-Binche connection with M6 double deck equipment with air conditioning. The busiest trains between Turnhout and Brussels also run with air conditioning. Under its new transport plan, some older M4 sets will be replaced by double-deck air-conditioning equipment. As SNCB pointed out earlier, it did indeed consider whether the installation of air conditioning was possible when the four-piece sets were renovated. Unfortunately, that was not technically possible, as you said. An overview of all investments in Kempen cannot be given to SNCB in the context of an oral question. You can always submit a written question to this effect. SNCB confirms that the potential study was completed. SNCB is currently working on the business case that will be submitted to its decision-making bodies. SNCB therefore does not wish to communicate on this file for the time being. However, as I said in my introduction, the aim is to improve and modernise all rolling stock, which I will explain in more detail at the budget debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u15	Minister, if the budget also provides the necessary funds for modern equipment for the train connections in the Kempen, you will certainly have our support for this. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u16	Minister, I don't know if everyone hears well, but I find that the return of sound is not excellent. Perhaps you could increase the sound a little bit? With a helmet or earpieces, it goes better, but in the room it's not really performing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u17	Mr. President, I'm gonna go get some earpieces.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u18	That's perfect, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u19	Mr. President, can you hear me?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u20	Much better. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u21	I look like a cosmonaut!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u22	No problem, Minister: we will take a picture and send it on the net! There's no problem, you're very good!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u23	At the beginning of this year, Minister, your predecessor said that the study on the reactivation of railway line 18 Hasselt-Pelt was parallel to the file on the North-South link. The last study would now show that the planned railway line would still have to depart from a tram line. The reactivation of the railway line would not be evident because the railway runs through protected nature. In addition, a tram would have more passenger potential than a train. However, an earlier study by SNCB, Infrabel and De Lijn showed that a train connection has a lot of potential. At that time, there was an average potential of 6,436 passengers per working day. There is still a cost-benefit study that can influence the choice between tram and train. By when can we expect the results of this study? The figures of the potential number of travellers in the new study differ greatly from those of a previous study. What's the explanation for that? Can you explain that? A train connection would have a greater environmental impact than a tram or bus. Can you explain that? And does that also apply when the railroad is electrified? Can you confirm that the choice for tram instead of train is already final, despite the ongoing cost-benefit study?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u24	Mr Raskin, in relation to your question, Infrabel has informed me of the following. The study on the reopening of railway line 18, which is a Flemish priority in the multiannual strategic plan, at the request of the Flemish Region, is still ongoing, together with the study on the North-South road infrastructure link. The two are studied together to clearly reflect the interaction between the two. At the end of September, the first phase of the integrated research project for the complex North-South link Limburg was completed. The study firm stated that a speed tram offers the greatest potential as a mobility solution and also has less impact on the nature reserve, as you said. It was proposed no longer to examine the train option on the old railway bed of line 18. This would mean that the study on the reopening of railway line 18 would expire. This will be part of the further discussion between the Flemish and the federal government. With regard to studies on the choice of other means of transport, such as bus, tram or speed tram, I would suggest that you contact my colleague in the Flemish Government, Mrs Lydia Peeters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u26	Minister, the old railway bridge in Eigenbilzen is in particularly poor condition. Infrabel recently decided to replace this bridge with a ground supplement with a road on it. This will create a new connection for motorised traffic. The city of Bilzen would have insisted on this. I have a few specific questions about this. Firstly, would Infrabel have also decided on a ground supplement if the city of Bilzen had not insisted on this? Secondly, if not, what were Infrabel's original plans with the bridge? Would the bridge be preserved until the Spartacus project roll out? Would the bridge have been demolished without providing for a replacement? Thirdly, the cost of the works is about EUR 40,000. The majority of this amount is paid by Infrabel, some 35,000 euros. As the city of Bilzen insisted on replacing the bridge with a ground supplement, it seems strange to me that it only pays 11% of the cost of the works. How do you explain this? Finally, the ground complement and the road built on it will be removed as soon as the Spartacus project is rolled out. What is the estimated cost of these works and who will bear this cost?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u27	Mr Raskin, Infrabel informs me that if the city of Bilzen had not insisted on it, they would not have chosen a land supplement. Secondly, the bridge would initially remain accessible only to pedestrians and cyclists in anticipation of the Spartacus project. Thirdly, the bridge was owned by Infrabel and most of the cost is borne by the owner of the artwork. Finally, there is no estimate available. However, the said cost will not be for Infrabel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer. As far as my final question is concerned, are you saying that there is no estimate of the cost of the clean-up work because these costs will not be borne by Infrabel? May I assume, then, that the city of Bilzen, the other initiator, will bear that cost? Do you have any further information on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u29	That may be a question for the city council of Bilzen, but not for the committee on Mobility of the federal Parliament. I don't have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u30	I'll work on that tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u31	Mr. President, Minister, on August 18, the people of Florenville found that an aircraft was removing its fuel from their territory. This type of event would have taken place a second time on September 21, still in Florenville. Release is a safety procedure in the event of technical incidents. Do you confirm these two incidents? For what reasons have these aircraft been ordered to take off? Has the clearance procedure been followed? Can you recall the terms of this operational clearance procedure? How do events follow on and who is responsible for them? Are investigations systematically initiated to monitor the validity of the decision to release or not? By whom? Have such investigations ever taken place? Have any disputes in this area already been registered? How many delestries were carried out in Belgium in 2020, and where exactly? The impact on the ground in terms of environmental and health protection is the responsibility of the Regions. In a clearance procedure, are the regions concerned contacted? Is a ground impact study conducted? The federal authority is responsible for enforcing the procedure, but the regional services are apparently not systematically made aware of the occurrence of events, which prevents the conduct of ground assessments. Has the Walloon Region asked you about this? Why not systematize the communication of information on this subject between the federal authority and the Regions? Should the procedure not provide for a warning to the residents concerned – through BE-Alert, for example – or, at the very least, a posteriori information?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u32	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Arens, this is a very interesting question, and the information will be communicated to the residents through you. In addition, I have already been asked about this by my regional colleague, Mrs Tellier. A fuel release may be initiated by the pilot to lighten the aircraft when its performance is compromised due to a failure of one or more engines in flight. The pilot may also use it to reduce the aircraft's weight to less than the maximum landing weight, when the pilot is forced to land earlier than expected due to a turnaround or diversion. Fuel discharge occurs only when the safety of an aircraft is at risk, and this is a relatively rare phenomenon. According to the regulations, the discharge of fuel in Belgium must, in principle and under ideal circumstances, be carried out over the North Sea, at an altitude of more than 3,000 metres. Where this is not possible (for safety reasons, for example), the pilot may unload fuel at another location, avoiding towns, villages and towns where possible. The release of fuel is the responsibility of the pilot and must be carried out in accordance with the operating procedures of the airlines approved by the civil aviation authorities. Airlines are obliged to report such incidents to their respective authorities. Air traffic control plays a facilitating role during this procedure in order to ensure sufficient separation with other aircraft in particular. In Belgium, fuel spills must be reported by air traffic control to the Directorate-General for Air Transport in the form of a report of safety-related events in the context of safety management. As far as the case in question is concerned, Mr Arens, a fuel discharge was actually carried out, on 18 August, in the south of Belgium, by a B747-800 aircraft of the Cargolux company, following a technical problem. No indication of fuel release was found by one of our skeyes air controllers for September 21. This does not necessarily mean that there was no clearance operation near the border, but that this did not happen under the facilitation of the Belgian air traffic controllers. On the other hand, another fuel discharge was recorded near the border between France and Luxembourg on 30 September; it was also a B747 aircraft of the Cargolux company which had declared an emergency. The fuel spills of 18 August and 30 September were actually reported to the Air Transport Branch in accordance with the procedures in force. As a result of these events, I asked my administration to be kept informed of each release. I will also contact my Luxembourg counterpart and ask my administration to question the Cargolux company in order to draw the attention of our Luxembourg neighbours to the fact that better information is expected from them and to ensure that these practices will remain exceptional given their impact on the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answer. That's two incidents with the same company, Cargolux. I would therefore like to thank you for your information to the Luxembourg authorities in order to determine what happened there. Of course, this matter is regionalised, but on this occasion it seems to me that BE-Alert should inform the inhabitants of the regions concerned, since such removal leaves traces on the soil and on the various plants used for our food.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u34	Minister, I am pleased that the government agreement is planning to refinance the rail. This is very important, even fundamental in the period we are living in where we all want to fight for positive climate change. I hope that these new appropriations will speed up the work needed to create a P+R in Viville. The Viville P+R is the subject of a cooperation agreement between the Walloon Region and the Federal State. It is explicitly set out in Annex 1 to the Cooperation Agreement of 5 October 2018. Regional co-financing is planned alongside traditional federal funding. The P+R in Viville is part of a global reflection on mobility between southern Luxembourg and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. There we have the same traffic jams we know at the entrance to Brussels during a period of high activity. I have asked your predecessor many questions about this. I've never been very satisfied with his answers. I never understood his argument that the modernization of axis 3 was to be carried out before the Viville P+R. Most commuters to the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg leave the Arlon station, they will not benefit from the works. Minister, the most important thing is the future: what commitments do you make with regard to the creation of a P+R in Viville? In what time frame? Will you quickly put this item on the agenda of the next ECMM? Is a work schedule available? Who is responsible for this project at SNCB? Minister Bellot referred to the establishment of a working group with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on this subject. Does this working group exist? Has he met before? For what conclusions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u35	Mr President, honourable Member, I will give you the answer which has been prepared by SNCB, with a supplement. Mr Arens, as already explained by my predecessor and confirmed by SNCB at the road show in October – to which you have been invited, I suppose, as a Member and Mayor – consultations are held every three months between SNCB and the Luxembourg railways with a view to studying the future of the links between Luxembourg and Belgium. These connections are important, especially for all frontier workers, whom I know many in your region. The P+R at Viville station, according to SNCB information, is not saturated and an extension would not be justified at the moment. That was the answer I had received from SNCB. However, I intend to address this issue at a forthcoming meeting with my excellent Luxembourg colleague in charge of the railways, François Bausch, in order to put this issue to a standstill, which I inherit as a new minister in charge of mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answer. I count on your commitment in this matter: I will harass you even until I get a concrete conclusion on the ground!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u37	Mr Minister, of course I welcome the forthcoming refinancing of SNCB. The disinvestment in rail in recent years is partly responsible for the slowing down of work. The modernisation of Axis 3 (lines 161 and 162) which is expected to reduce travel time between Luxembourg and Brussels has been expected by commuters for several decades. Your colleague, Mr Bausch, will be on the same page as I am on this request. The latest news regarding the acceleration of this work was unfortunately bad, even if the schedule was precise. There will be no termination of work until at least 2027. Will the planned refinancing speed up modernisation work on Axis 3? What funds will be allocated to Infrabel for this purpose? Will the work schedule be modified? How? What are the planned future work and what impacts will they have for commuters? What improvements do you think will appear in practice on this journey within three years, that is, by the end of the legislature? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u38	Mr Arens, Axis 3 is obviously a priority rail route for Wallonia and not just because it is the line I use to come to Brussels and leave. I am interested in the whole of Belgium, as I told Mrs Van Camp earlier. This line is important to Infrabel, to SNCB and to our government. However, it is still too early to determine the impact of the budgetary means for the railway on the progress of Axis 3. These discussions will take place in the coming weeks, first within the government to determine what envelopes are available for new investments, and then with the boards of the SNCB and Infrabel. Furthermore, it should also be stressed that the progress of work does not depend solely on the financial resources available. Infrabel must be able to absorb any acceleration in its planning. We can't do work in all places at the same time. With regard to future work and its impact on line 162, Infrabel provided us with the following inventory. Work at Ciney station, as has certainly been observed, causes a temporary slowdown at the station level, which will be moved. There are also modernisation works between Ciney and Haversin, towards Luxembourg, with various single-track services, total cuts for a week, normally at Toussaint 2021, modernization works between Grupont and Hatrival with various single-track services, and a temporary slowdown at the Arlon railway station. With regard to the next improvements that this huge project will allow, at the end of 2020 an increase in the reference speed from 130 km/h to 160 km/h between Hatrival and the Luxembourg border is announced. In mid-2021, an improvement was announced in the reception of passengers at Arlon station, as in other stations, with the upgrading of the docks, but also here an extension. In August 2022, the change of tension between Hatrival and the Luxembourg border will allow for a better flow of trains on both networks. By the end of 2022, it will be the improvement of the reception of passengers at Ciney station, with also the upgrading and extension of the docks, as well as a new station, if all goes well. SNCB, for its part, calculated a 12-minute journey time saving on the horizon of mid-2025, at the end of the various work on this line 161 between Ottignies and the forklift of Louvain-la-neuve, and also taking into account the increase in speed between Libramont and Arlon. SNCB also informs me that at the end of all the work allowing an increase in speed on various sections between Ciney and Hatrival, between Brussels and Ottignies and between Namur and Ottignies, we should still gain an additional 14 minutes by 2031. We can't wait to be there. In the end, the journey time between Arlon and Brussels would be 02:28. But since I know you're impatient, probably you'd prefer it to go faster, Mr. Arens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u39	Minister, thank you. If I asked the question today, it is precisely because I know that the budgetary discussions are in full swing. I count, Minister, on your power of conviction to make the necessary budgets available in order to improve this line as quickly as possible. I was saying this to your colleague this morning in the context of the discussion on the Beliris Fund: what is happening on this line also has a significant impact on mobility in Brussels. Indeed, the more people are satisfied with a more reasonable journey time, the more they will take the train and the less cars there will be in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u40	I count on your support. It is already very pleasant to take the train for the moment, it will be even more so in a few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u41	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on 5 October 2020, SNCB announced its intention to develop an autonomously accessible carriage for new orders from trains. The board has already approved the study costs and the order of a few prototypes. It is intended that in the future carriages will be provided in which passengers with physical disabilities can also board and exit independently, which was unfortunately not thought of when SNCB ordered 445 M7 vehicles five years ago. I read in the press release of 5 October 2020 that SNCB is very aware of this missed opportunity; of course we welcome the fact that SNCB has seen it. In addition to the carriages, the stations must of course be made accessible. At the time, Minister Bellot was able to tell us here in committee on 22 September 2020 that it is intended to double the number of fully accessible stations from 78 stations today to 150 stations in 2025. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, can you clarify, first of all, whether autonomously accessible copies of the outstanding order for M7 carriages, of which 395 are still to be delivered? On the other hand, does the development of autonomously accessible vehicles only affect new orders? If so, are orders still going to be made during the current legislature? How many cars do you think it's about? By when will they be delivered? With what budget will they be paid? My second question is about making stations accessible. Your predecessor was able to tell us that 7 stations were tackled in 2020. If I can count well, to reach 150 stations by 2025, 72 stations must be tackled or more than 14 stations a year. In other words, the number of stations that will be made fully accessible each year will have to be doubled in order to achieve this ambitious objective. Is the objective of 150 stations realistic? If yes, can you provide more details on which stations will be tackled when and with what budget? My third question concerns the reservation app for persons in need of assistance. Former Minister Bellot announced on 22 September 2020 that that app will be launched. Will the reservation app also shorten the reservation period? Today, potential travellers need to request assistance by telephone or via the website. You could do that through the app. Will the deadline for the reservation be shortened?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u42	Minister, I would like to join with Mr Vandenbroucke's questions. I can add a number of elements to that. SNCB has launched a new accessibility plan at the end of September, on which we are likely to organise another hearing in our committee following a resolution by colleagues. Mr Vandenbroucke has already spoken about the M7 double-deck trains. More platforms will also need to be adapted. The number of stations with custom platforms will double by 2025, as announced. That means there will be more platforms of 76 centimeters high. The ombudswoman of the train passengers and the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities, who follow the situation, have repeatedly complained that an on-board fare is charged to passengers with disabilities, while this restriction prevents them from using vending machines or digital channels. That complaint remained without effect until now. Furthermore, SNCB's app has not been readable for persons with visual impairment since an update. The font is smaller and it is no longer possible to zoom in. All these relatively small problems make life very difficult for those who depend on the train for their travels. In this context, I would also refer to the resolution on the automatic transmission of reduction cards and free accompanying cards adopted in the previous legislature, which set out a number of objectives. Minister, what is your view on SNCB's accessibility policy? We will probably soon be able to learn about this through the policy paper. There is also a provision in the coalition agreement, but it would be good if you could clarify that aspect. In what way will SNCB finance this policy? How will additional budgets be made available to make trains, stations, parkings and sales channels accessible? Mr Vandenbroucke has already referred to the high ambitions and the number of stations that will have to be adapted each year. Have you discussed this with SNCB and Infrabel? Is it possible to provide an extension on the first M7 trains ordered, so that the error, which the SNCB admits in the meantime, can still be corrected? What is the planning for the new assistance application app? Will SNCB address the comments of the ombudswoman and the National Supreme Court? What measures does SNCB take to complete the requests contained in the resolution of the previous legislature? How many lifts and fixed slopes to the platforms are planned today? Has an evaluation been made of the old accessibility plan, which dates back to 2008? Mr President, Minister, there are many questions, and I look forward to the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u43	It was by no means my intention to put my question to Mr Van den Bergh; I also addressed it to Mrs Lalieux, who is responsible for people with disabilities. The services seem to have decided that you must answer the question, Minister. I regret that, and I shall repeat it to Mrs Lalieux, because I believe that the Minister responsible for persons with disabilities has a clear role to play in this. In fact, I have been actively discussing this vision with Mr Bellot over the past year. Once again, I regret that my question was referred to the Committee on Mobility. The previous speakers have outlined the situation very well. The organisations and associations for persons with disabilities and the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities, with which I regularly consulted last year, indicated that there is a constructive dialogue with SNCB, but that there are too few guarantees of progress in the dossier, as witnessed by the orders made. The sector and associations have traditionally called for autonomous access to trains. We're a long way from there. Recently, they expressed my disappointment at a press release by SNCB on the subject. But it's even worse. Last week I saw on the train how and person in a carriage simply could not leave the train because the ramp was not present in the plane, although it was indicated. Fortunately, there were enough passengers to manually lift the person out of the wagon. We all feel that the road is still long and that a great deal needs to be done in this area. With the coalition agreement, there is once again hope in view of the clear passage on an evaluation and the announced action and roadmap to improve accessibility. Hopefully, together with your colleague responsible for persons with disabilities, you will take the dossier and also discuss it with those involved through their organisations and the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities. How do you see an accessibility policy? What's your action plan? What's the timing? Who will you consult with?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u44	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the situation has already been sufficiently outlined, and I will ask my questions immediately. Firstly, what resources do SNCB and Infrabel allocate to the ambitions to be achieved? Secondly, can you give me more details on the initiatives to improve accessibility in the short term? Thirdly, the M7 carriages already ordered have an entry height of 72 cm with an inclined plane of 66 cm, an intermediate solution for the platforms at 55 and 76 cm. Has it been considered that part of the order of the 445 M7 carriages should be adjusted? If not, why wasn't that possible? Fourthly, when is the follow-up order for the M7 carriages scheduled? Can access be assured? Finally, does SNCB have the ambition to equip each train connection in the long term with at least one multifunctional carriage that is accessible autonomously or not? Will other types of train sets, especially those which will continue to run on our railways for a long time, receive prototypes of a multifunctional carriage?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u45	Mr Minister, colleagues have already outlined the dossier and my specific questions relate to the Kempen. In the articles I read that the platforms will be rebuilt and with us in the Kempen there is still some work to be done. When can we expect the adjustments in our region? We have already talked about the pig nose trains and I heard from you that SNCB will be communicating on the plan of action. My fellow Members have also referred to the problem of reservations in advance. There are a lot of differences between the stations, because in Turnhout and Mol one has to book 3 hours in advance, while in Herentals and Yellow it still goes at 24 hours. Moreover, in Tielen and Olen it is still impossible for people with a mobile disability to take the train, even if they request it 24 hours in advance. What will you do about it? As far as accessibility is concerned, we need to look beyond the equipment and platforms, because the entire station environment often needs to be addressed. In the station of Herentals there are still stairs, so passengers in a wheelchair, who need assistance, have to be escorted over the train tracks. That is not only unsafe but also impractical. Will your commendable plan to improve accessibility include this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u46	Mr President, accessibility is a priority for me and I therefore have a long answer for you, but I understand that there will still be debates in committee following the discussion of the resolution on this by the Ecolo-Green colleagues, on which there is a great consensus, I think. SNCB informs me that the financing of the accessibility of train stations, parkings and sales channels is contained in SNCB's regular investment plan. In the construction or renewal of the stations and platforms, SNCB provides accessibility in accordance with Regulation No. 1300/2014 of the European Commission on the technical specification for interoperability relating to the accessibility of the rail system in the Union for disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility. This European regulation is also taken into account in the purchase of trains. In 2014, SNCB, Infrabel and SNCB-Holding were redistributed and thus the powers between the different companies. The accessibility plans prior to 2014 should therefore be considered in the context of the powers of the companies at the time. In 2016, eight years after the old accessibility plan to which you refer, SNCB and Infrabel drew up the national implementation plan on accessibility in accordance with European regulations and included the reference height of 76 centimeters for the platforms. Platform works and in particular the increase to 76 centimeters are now an essential element to improve access to our trains. This is done in consultation between SNCB and Infrabel and it is one of my priorities. SNCB regularly consults its structural partners who represent the interests of persons with disabilities: the National High Council for Persons with Disability and the Advisory Committee of Train Travellers. In addition, SNCB also has regular contacts with other interest groups, such as Unia, Inter, Light and Love, Connect, NOOZO, the Advisory Council on Accessibility Leuven and so on. For example, a working group with stakeholders was set up to make the M7 material accessible. They are given the opportunity to involve experience experts, to visit a model, to carry out tests and to formulate comments. That working group will continue to exist as long as the project is ongoing. Today 77 stations are fully accessible with thresholdless access to the platforms, where necessary with an elevator or ramp, access to the ticket machine, a platform height of 76 centimeters and a tactile guidance for the blind and visually impaired. SNCB intends to have 250 fully accessible stations by 2030 and thus reach 85% to 90% of the number of passengers. The timing and scope within which SNCB will be able to achieve its ambition depends on the size of the investment budget, which is currently under discussion in the government. SNCB wants passengers with reduced mobility to be able to take the train autonomously. This principle is central to its new accessibility policy. In that context, SNCB decided that the standard platform height would be 76 centimetres, according to the European standard, and that all new orders for multi-purpose carriages should be given an entry height of that height. It is not technically possible to take the entry height of the M7 vehicles already ordered from 63 to 76 centimetres, nor to provide them with a drawbar. Such intervention would, after all, mean a complete reclassification of the carriages. Just for this reason, SNCB, together with the manufacturer, designs a completely new prototype of the multifunctional carriage with extended and autonomous access at 76 centimeters. SNCB will use this new carriage together with the existing multifunctional carriage of the first order with access at 63 centimeters in the commercial service. As a result, each M7 train will always contain two carriages with a functional space and an inclined plane within the carriage for passengers with wheelchairs, prams, bicycles or large luggage. The assistance application app will enable the traveller to request assistance more quickly and easily. It is therefore the way the application is made that will save time. Today, the customer has to submit the same information every time he requests assistance. SNCB wants to work towards a system in which it no longer needs to do so. Then I come to Mr Van den Bergh's questions on the application of the rail fare for passengers with disabilities, the legibility of the app and the automatic control of the reduction cards. The on-board fare was introduced to reduce discussion and aggression towards staff. Except in some very specific cases, the train companion cannot therefore switch off the on-board fare. The situation is very clear for both passengers without tickets and train escorts. SNCB has already explained in the past why it does not wish to make an exception. SNCB sells its banknotes through many channels and also provides assistance to buy a banknote. As regards your comment on the accessibility of the app, SNCB states that it has not made any changes recently. However, experience has shown that the update of an operating system can cause problems. SNCB will soon release a new application for smartphones. It's currently being tested. They work with AnySurfer, who will carry out an audit and assist SNCB to improve the app, if necessary, for visually impaired people. SNCB informs me that they pay a great deal of attention to this. Then I come to the automatic control of the reduction cards. SNCB has already simplified the administrative handling of the procedure. At the moment, however, it is still necessary for travellers to visit the station for this purpose. A link is made between the identity card of the traveller and the Crossroads bank. Once the information has been verified, the reduction card will be delivered immediately. SNCB expects to be able to provide the free accompanying card in the spring of 2021 in the same way. This will also shorten the duration of the procedure. Then I come to Mrs Van Camp's question on accessibility in the Kempen. You are asking for an extension of the service for persons with reduced mobility in the Kempen. Of the 15 Kempense stations, 9 have yet to be made fully accessible: Balen, Berlaar, Essen, Duffel, Heist-op-den-Berg, Herentals, Lier, Nijlen and Olen. The stations where assistance to persons with reduced mobility is guaranteed were selected on the basis of a number of criteria such as the accessibility of the platforms for wheelchair users, the size of the station and the geographical location. At present there are no concrete plans to extend this assistance to Tielen and Olen. Travellers who want assistance in boarding are asked to offer themselves at the station of Geel or Turnhout. Also the reduction of the reservation period in Herentals and Geel is not currently on the agenda. It is not the means of boarding that are the major costs, but the provision of staff to provide assistance during the period from the first to the last train. In order to ensure permanence, seven days at seven, twenty-four hours at twenty-four hours, an additional six full-time equivalents on an annual basis are required. I will end by saying that the accessibility of trains and of platforms requires resources. I am counting on your support for getting these resources in the government negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer, for which I have given you some time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u48	It is therefore an important subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. What you have said is crucial, in particular that the investment envelope of SNCB and Infrabel will determine the ambitions that will be met by this legislative period in terms of accessibility. I give you my full support when it comes to spending money on this. Some observations on your answer. It is a pity that the missed opportunity of the M7 vehicles cannot be corrected and we must therefore wait for the autonomously accessible vehicles, which still have to be developed and ordered. The question is when we will see them for the first time. Secondly, as far as the stations are concerned, you are talking about 77 fully accessible stations, where your predecessor has already mentioned 78. I hope, quite frankly, that we are moving forward rather than backwards. You have not yet been able to say anything about the feasibility of 150 by 2025. That will indeed have to do with the investment envelope. As far as the app is concerned, have I understood that the investment period will be shortened when it is ready? If so, that would be good news. We will certainly discuss this subject more often.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u50	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer, but this debate is certainly not closed. The government will have to consider the resources available and our committee will organise a hearing, as will a debate on the resolution. So we will certainly continue to follow up on this. The lack of accessibility of the M7 vehicles in the first order is, of course, a dramatically missed opportunity. However, there is a perspective that the new multifunctional carriages can also be incorporated into the equipment of the first order. In the long term, therefore, something can still be done about accessibility, but we will still have to have some patience. As far as the fare is concerned, I continue to feel uncomfortable about the very rigid way in which it is handled. Not everyone can easily handle vending machines or order tickets digitally. Also with regard to the automatic sending of reduction cards, I still feel that it could be made a bit more customer friendly and easier to access. We will undoubtedly be discussing this in the next few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. You referred to the investment programme and investments are really important, but such a dossier also needs the dynamism of a minister who considers accessibility as important as security and punctuality. My experiences in the last year have shown me that they are sometimes lacking. We need this dynamic and this discussion is continuing. I will certainly seek support for the necessary investments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u52	Mr Minister, I too would like to thank you for the comprehensive answer and look forward to the investment programme and your presentation of the policy paper. In the debate on the accessibility of stations, I would also like to draw your attention to the switching stations. The station of Herentals is the transfer station par excellence within our transport region, the Kempen. There too, therefore, there is a need to increase accessibility. Not only should the M7 vehicles be accessible autonomously; perhaps the other vehicles should also be looked at and innovative work can be done there. This accessibility applies not only to people with disabilities but also to people with buggy and so on. That requires a lot of attention. I look forward to the hearing that will be scheduled shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u53	Mr President, Minister, I appreciate your honest answer. You make it very clear that no improvements are planned regarding reservations and the possibilities for people with reduced mobility to be served in more stations. I appreciate your honesty, but of course I do not agree with your answer. You also say that this simply requires too much resources. I hope that you will at least draw a different line from the past. In the past villages, such as Brabant, were tunneled along the road. I don't know what the exact cost of that was. For example, there is also the megalomaniac project of the station in Bergen, where more than 300 million euros were thrown into it. It is sometimes said that the civilisation of society is measured by how one deals with the weakest. I find it vengeful that we should then find that there is no money for this accessibility. I was hoping you'd draw a different line. I'd love to watch it. I await your concrete plans to see exactly what you are up to and what is in the area of accessibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u54	I think that this point can be closed on a very important subject which we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss again in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u55	Mr President, Minister, according to the press, in a few months' time, the Infrabel Academy, Belgium's first railway school, will be inaugurated. This school will allow the railway infrastructure manager to centralize all the train trades training he provides on a single site. Minister, what can you tell us about the Infrabel Academy? When will it open its doors? How did the training go before? How many students will be able to enter this school? How many trainings will be provided? How long will each of these courses last? Can you give us more information on the curriculum, if I can say so? In the future, should the number of students increase, could other schools be opened or would the logic be to stay on a single site that could eventually be extended if the Infrabel Academy were successful?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u56	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Minister on his position and welcome him to our committee. I hope we can still see a lot of each other, because, as you undoubtedly know, Minister, many oral questions are being put in this committee. You will also notice this in today's questionnaire. I hope that we can meet very frequently and hopefully on occasion in the flesh. As regards the opening of the Infrabel Academy, Infrabel opened its first railway school in Sint-Jans-Molenbeek. This school offers the opportunity to choose from more than 500 internal training courses. 80 people will be employed there and external experts will also be called upon. The opening of the training centre also raises the question of how this relates to the rest of the personnel policy, as led by HR Rail. Do you still think it is sensible that SNCB, Infrabel and HR Rail should carry out all three personnel policy tasks, with the result that today there are de facto three personnel services for two public enterprises? Or do you agree that the full delegation of HR policy to SNCB and Infrabel would be much more efficient and effective than the existing three-sharing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u57	Mr President, I thank Mr Prévot and Mr Roggeman for their questions. Mr Roggeman, I have asked many questions myself. So it's no problem now to try to answer you as best you can. My answer was written in French. I apologise for that, Mr Roggeman, but you understand French very well. Gentlemen, I am very pleased to tell you about this beautiful project of Infrabel Academy that was developed by Infrabel. Up to now, Infrabel's training has been mainly decentralized. For new hires, it was often necessary to learn practice in the field through accompaniment, after receiving theoretical training. There was no real training in the rail trades which are very specific, as you know. After the opening of the first railway school in Belgium, more than 300 training courses will be centralized and given on the website of the Infrabel Academy in Molenbeek. In the long term, 500 people per day can be trained in 40 different trades. This will range from the track-layer to the rail traffic controller within the signal booths, through the welder or welder and the catenary specialist. In short, all the railway infrastructure trades and everything that supports them are represented at Infrabel Academy. The duration of these training courses is obviously variable. At the end of their scavengering, Infrabel relies on new staff and collaborators ready to join a team and work immediately in the field and with the latest technologies. I would like to emphasize the two types and the diversity of staff within the SNCB, which we will have the opportunity to discuss in my policy note which you will receive shortly. This academy is not just for students, for future new workers in society. Continuing training will also be offered to the railway infrastructure manager's staff in a very broad panel ranging from behavioural development to digitalization. Infrabel therefore clearly intends to train new employees but also to invest in its staff to further develop its skills. It is not currently planned to duplicate this centralized initiative. Mr Roggeman, you do not think it is normal that there are two personnel services for rail transport. It is seen that Infrabel Academy is specific to Infrabel. I did not choose to work with two companies, but it makes sense that Infrabel itself organises the formation of its future and present employees. I am open to any innovation that is positive for the future of the companies and for the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answer. You actually feel enthusiastic about the idea of this project, which is understandable. Indeed, in order to have an effective service to the public, it is essential to rely on women and men who have been properly trained and – as you rightly pointed out – who have been able to benefit from continuing training throughout their careers. We can therefore only welcome such a project, and we will not fail to follow its development in the coming weeks and months, pending the official inauguration of this academy. In any case, on paper, this is a very nice project, and I encourage you to carry out others with the same acabit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u59	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, which surprises me very much. I agree with you that the presence of two personnel services would make sense. SNCB and Infrabel do indeed have company-specific characteristics. What you're saying is very correct. It makes sense that Infrabel organises her own formations. I would even like to add something: it would be logical for SNCB and Infrabel to be given responsibility for the entire staff policy for their own employees. Give them the full opportunity to invest in valuable employees themselves, let them organise the selection themselves and let them organise the promotion policy themselves. It would be logical to work with two personnel services, but today there are three. That's a little bit of good too much. The current situation is not efficient, but I understand from you that you are open to any innovation that is positive for the future. I conclude from that that you also want to consider the dissolution of HR Rail, which surprises me pleasantly. I therefore hope for the support of the Ecolo-Green Group in our legislative proposal on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u60	Minister, there is something you must always bear in mind in the coming years. The busiest passenger station in Flanders is located in Ghent, in particular the station Gent-Sint-Pieters. This has been the case since 2005 for much-needed renovation and enlargement. In 2018, the second phase of the renovation, which has been running for 15 years, was closed because the project threatened to fall out too expensive. At the beginning of this year, the good news came that there are revised plans that also provide for rail roofs and the like. The new target date is 2027 for a fully renovated and extended station in Ghent-Sint-Pieters. On this subject, former Minister Bellot said in October 2019 that the target date of 2027 will be feasible but "provided the permit is obtained in good time and subject to possible obstacles such as legal procedures and unforeseen circumstances." I therefore hope that you will at least be able to confirm today that the target date of 2027 can be maintained. In the meantime, SNCB has proposed a new and ambitious transport plan for 2020-2023. The road show stated very explicitly that the necessary strengthening of the suburban network around Ghent, which will improve mobility throughout the region, is hampered by the capacity constraints resulting from the ongoing work at the Gent-Sint-Pieters station. In the interest of the accessibility of the city of Ghent and the extended Ghent region, it is very important that the second phase of the work at the station Gent-Sint-Pieters runs smoothly and punctually. That is why I would like to ask you a number of questions. In the meantime, has a contractor been appointed to carry out the second phase of the renewal of the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station? Can you tell us exactly when the works will be restarted? What is the planned timing for delivery? Will the deadline of 2027 be met? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u61	I am not going to repeat everything Mr Vandenbroucke said. But I may also be allowed to speak on his behalf, if I tell you that you will find in us partners who will work together to achieve progress in the work on the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station. I think it is unacceptable that work on such an important station should take so long. For comparison, the megalomaniac renovation project of the station in Berchem carries a substantially smaller number of passengers. The works started there in 2013. That station will be completed in 2023. In Ghent-Sint-Pieters the works started in 2005. There is now talk of 2027 before the end of the works. Their disproportionateness is now very clear. Some of my questions overlap with the questions that Mr Vandenbroucke has already asked. One question that he has not yet asked and which I would like to ask you is the following. Do you agree that, in order to achieve sustainable mobility, much more time should be given to the most busy stations in Flanders? How do you explain that the works have been dragging on for so long? Like Mr Vandenbroucke, I had a question about the contractors but also another question. Has a cutlery already been written for the works that are in the pipeline? Finally, in addition to Mr Vandenbroucke's question as to whether there is already a date on which the works will be renewed, I also have the following question. Will you commit to advance that date? Will you ensure that the target date for the end of the work is not postponed again? Mr Vandenbroucke pointed out that that date was already in 2027. Do you commit that the works will not be postponed again?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u62	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke, Mrs Van Bossuyt, on the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station, SNCB gives me the following specific information. In setting priorities, SNCB relies on different criteria. A choice is made on the basis of the strategic objectives, the most important of which are: firstly, the realisation of autonomously accessible stations with the target 250 autonomously accessible stations by 2030 and thus reaching at least 85% of passengers; secondly, the sustainability of pre- and post-transport by extending the bicycle parking capacity to 150,000 parking spaces; thirdly, a parking strategy that offers a guaranteed position to its customers and, fourthly, the standardisation of infrastructure and equipment. In addition, a multi-criteria approach is supported, taking into account the state of the infrastructure at the station concerned and on the line, the capacity utilisation of parkings and bicycle sheds, safety and security aspects and opportunities created by planned rail renewal work. Of course, the station's potential is also an important factor. This potential is determined by the evolution of the number of passengers and the nature of the station, such as departure, destination, urban and so on, but also on the basis of opportunities in the station environment, such as urban developments by third parties, the improvement of the station's accessibility and the expansion of the local public transport supply. For the Ghent-Sint-Pieters project, a phased approach was chosen from the start of the project. The renovation was divided into two public contracts. Since the tender prices for the second stage of the station, platforms 7 to 1, exceeded the financial capacity of SNCB, this phase could not be awarded twice and the design for the station had to be adapted. It wasn't my responsibility, you understand, you know that. At the end of last year a consensus was reached on this issue between the city of Ghent and SNCB. In the meantime, the specifications were issued and transferred to the selected contractors on 1 October 2020. That's an important date. The award is foreseen for the second quarter of 2021. The objective is to start work after the summer of 2021, provided, of course, that the environmental permit is obtained in good time and that the contract for the work can be awarded. Once the work is completed, SNCB will, of course, ensure that it is carried out in the shortest possible time, taking into account, of course, the continuity of customer service in the largest station in Flanders. Although SNCB's intention was to complete the station works by the end of 2027, it is currently being assessed whether this timing is indeed feasible, in the light of the ongoing procedure for obtaining the environmental permit and the award of the works and also taking into account the out-of-use of the tracks that these works require.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u63	Mr President, Minister, you must not, of course, convince us about all the reasons why the station should be renovated and preferably as soon as possible. Thank you for a number of specific answers. However, I am concerned about the very last sentences you spoke, especially when you said that although the deadline was set at 2027, it is now being evaluated in the light of. For me, that is a civil servant for it may well be that deadline being postponed again. I really hope, Minister, that this will not be the case. I really hope that you will do everything you can to ensure that we do not have to wait longer than 2027 for a station that is finished. In 2027 we will be 22 years after the beginning of the works. Last year, your predecessor communicated that the new deadline, which has already been delayed four or five times, is 2027. So I hope, and I will be very grateful to you for that, and with my colleague Van Bossuyt and the entire city council in Ghent, that at least the deadline of 2027 can be safeguarded. That's what I'm really counting on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u64	Minister, you mention all kinds of things such as strategic objectives, multi-criteria approach, the potential of the station and opportunities in the station environment. I'd like to invite you to the station of Gent-Sint-Pieters. You will see that there should not even be any question as to whether that station meets those criteria. That goes without saying. Thank you for the dates you gave me. Above all, I remember that the works would start next summer. The word "although" I have circled here on my leaf. Like Mr Vandenbroucke, that really worries me. I hope you're not hiding behind other things. That has often happened to your predecessor. I hope that you can turn the wheel so that the Gentenars and all commuters who use the Gent-Sint-Pieters station every day can finally make use of sustainable mobility within a framework worthy of that name.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u65	Minister, the federal part of the national climate plan, which was adopted at the end of 2019, states that SNCB will examine the sustainability of rail transport. The FPS Mobility commissioned the study firm Transport & Mobility Leuven to carry out a cost-benefit analysis on the further sustainability of rail transport by further phasing out the non-electricised parts of the rail network. Three options are being studied. Firstly, the complete electrification of the Belgian rail network, with only the use of electric trains. Secondly, the use of hydrogen trains to replace diesel trains on non-electricised parts. Thirdly, the use of hybrid trains with battery and pantograph. This research is particularly interesting because it will give us an insight into the most environmentally-financially sustainable alternatives to the diesel locomotives or the further electrification of our rail network. It is important that well-thought-out choices are made, because they will guide the coming decades. That is why I have the following questions, Minister. How many kilometres of rail in Belgium has not yet been electrified? How many diesel locomotives are still operational in our country? What's the status of that investigation? When's the delivery deadline? Have you been able to look at the study and what conclusions do you draw from it? Can the study be made available to Parliament should it be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u66	Thank you for your question, Mr Vandebroucke. In addition to the answer to your previous question, I do not know Ghent-Sint-Pieters station as well as you and other colleagues in Ghent, but I have already visited the station and I know that progress is needed, as is the need to make rail transport more sustainable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u67	We're working on a new question, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u68	I come to the answer, Mr President. Infrabel's rail network consists of 6,515 kilometers of main track, of which 5,857 kilometers are electrified, or an electrification rate of 90 %. In the context of the study on electrification of the Belgian rail network or the use of other sustainable modes of transport to replace diesel traction, the following lines are specifically studied: line 58 Eeklo-Gent-Dampoort, line 82 Aalst-Burst, line 86 Ronse-De Pinte, line 122 Geraardsbergen-Melle, lines 132 and 134 Couvin-Charleroi, line 21C Bilzen-Genk goods, line 55 Evergem border point with the Netherlands to Terneuzen and line 204 Gent Dampoort-Gent Noord. For this study, the FPS Mobility and Transport works closely with the executive consultant Transport & Mobility Leuven. There have been intensive contacts in recent months, involving Infrabel and SNCB in addition to the FOD. The latter play an important role in providing realistic figures for the studies. TML is currently finalising the final report, which I will read and analyse with great interest and will then make available to Parliament. I can also tell you that SNCB is no longer using diesel locomotives for passenger transport. The fleet of 93 MW41 diesel engines shall be used for the operation of the remaining non-electricised lines. In addition, a limited number of older diesel locomotives are available for towing trains in difficulty, for example in the event of faults on the overhead lines. However, diesel locomotives are used in freight transport. Since freight transport in Belgium has been fully liberalised since 1 January 2007, the number of locomotives operated by the different operators is not exactly known by my services. The operators are free to choose the most interesting option per ride.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for the interesting factual information. I look forward with you to the outcome of this study because I believe that we should make a cost-benefit analysis to determine whether we should electrify everything or count on battery or hydrogen trains. We must be open to other innovative solutions with a good result, but which may be cheaper.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u70	Minister, the station of Saint-Truiden counts about 1,500 passengers a week. This makes Sint-Truiden the second busiest visited station in the province of Limburg. It will therefore not be surprising that many inhabitants of the city and surrounding areas are insisting on a more extensive train supply. Currently there is one IC train per hour from Saint-Truiden to Leuven and Brussels and an additional peak hour train during the morning and evening pits. However, the introduction of a half-hour service on this route did not achieve the new transport plan. However, there is an alternative, namely a connection Hasselt-Landen-Leuven-Aarschot. This loop would have existed in the past during the weekend, but was cancelled a few years ago. However, a reintroduction would require little additional effort. Today there are already trains in both directions between Leuven and Hasselt, on the one hand, and Countries and Brussels, on the other. I have three specific questions on this matter, Minister. Is it true that that loop, as outlined above, existed in the past and was deleted a few years ago? Why was it decided to cancel that connection? Is SNCB open to a possible reintroduction of this connection? Why is that? Why is that? Why did SNCB decide not to include the half-hour service on the Genk-Hasselt-Landen-Leuven-Brussels route in the new transport plan? A possible downside is the lack of a double track on the Landen-Alken axis. Does Infrabel have any plans to double-track here? If so, can you explain this and what would be the cost of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u71	Mr Raskin, I have received an answer from SNCB to your first and second questions, but I have not received an answer from Infrabel to your third question. It is important that you submit different questions for the two companies. As regards the first question, SNCB tells me that until December 2014, there was a local train running every two hours during the weekend between Landen, Leuven, Aarschot and Hasselt. The Hasselt-Landen section was not included. In December 2014, the national offer was thoroughly rearranged. Since then the stops are operated by other connections during the weekend on the listed sections: the stations between Leuven and Landen by the IC train De Panne-Brussel-Landen and the stations between Leuven and Hasselt by the IC train Antwerpen-Brussels Airport-Zaventem-Leuven-Hasselt. In the implementation of the 2017-2020 transport plan, the operating frequency was increased. The stations between Leuven and Landen were connected every hour on Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays instead of every two hours. On Saturday, the stations between Leuven, Aarschot and Hasselt were connected every hour instead of every two hours. For the transport plan 2020-2023 an extension of the offer on Sundays and public holidays was approved on the Leuven-Aarschot-Hasselt section. The IC train Antwerpen-Brussels Airport-Zaventem-Leuven-Hasselt also evolves on Sunday from a two-hour service to an hour service in the Leuven-Aarschot-Hasselt section. There is no plan to connect Leuven-Aarschot-Hasselt-Landen-Leuven during weekends or on weekdays. The combination of the current IC-trains Blankenberge-Genk, the P-trains between Genk and Brussels and the additional connection requested is not possible because of a single lane between Alken and Landen. Moreover, the arrival time of the current trains from Leuven in Hasselt is not compatible with the remaining capacity on the single track between Alken and Landen. I come to your second question. SNCB has decided not to establish an additional link between Genk, Countries and Brussels, mainly for technical reasons. On the single course between Alken and Landen a half hour service is theoretically possible, provided a crossing in Sint-Truiden. At the crossing in Sint-Truiden there is a conflict further on with the IC-train Quiévrain-Liège-Guillemins between Landen and Brussels. If there is to be an hourly crossing in Sint-Truiden, this poses a risk to the robustness of train traffic, because possible delays of trains from Brussels are passed on to the trains from Hasselt. Moreover, the risk of delays is enhanced by the limited platform capacity in Hasselt. Due to the station works in Hasselt there is temporarily less platform capacity available. The new IC-connection Antwerp-Hasselt will already require additional platform capacity. During off-peak hours there is more freight than during peak hours, which puts further pressure on the capacity in and around Hasselt. I do not yet have an answer to your third question. You can always submit them as a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that putting together such a transport plan is a difficult puzzle. You refer to a number of improvements in favour of my province in the forthcoming transport plan. I recognize them, too. They're in there for a piece. On the other hand, they sometimes have a negative impact on other points. That's one advantage over the other sometimes. You also refer to the saturation of a number of lines. The role of freight transport in this is another discussion. Maybe we'll talk about that at another time. You screen with the robustness of the connection, which I understand, and with the ambition to drive as clockwise as possible. That was the reason for my third question on the double track between Landen and Alken. In addition to the works in Hasselt, this also has to do with it. As you suggest, I will re-table the third question separately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u73	Minister, a few years ago it was decided to roll Eurogare into the parent company SNCB. That happened a while ago with Eurostation, the Flemish evenknie. The integration of Eurogare is apparently somewhat more difficult than that of Eurostation, possibly because it is 25% owned by the Walloon Regional Investment Company. Eurogare is led by Mr Vincent Bourlard and it is striking that, despite his retirement as Director of the Stations at SNCB, he remains in service at Eurogare until the end of 2023. Even more striking is the fact that the procedure for the search for a replacement for Mr Bourlard had been started, a function which will therefore no longer exist, given the intended rotation of the company in SNCB. Where is the integration of Eurogare into SNCB? What's the status? Have there been any talks with the Walloon Regional Investment Company? What preparatory steps are being taken with regard to Eurogare staff? How does Eurogare's inclination in SNCB go if the construction of the new Bergen station, the main project, is delayed? Will there be a reappointment of Mr Bourlard himself? What about the follow-up procedure, given the planned integration of the company? What complications does this have for Mr Bourlard's position and for his employment? Is there any provision for a departure fee?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u74	Mr Roggeman, this question belongs to my inventory law as a new minister. I shall read out the answer delivered to me by the SNCB services. SNCB and the Walloon Regional Investment Company are, of course, in close contact as shareholders and also discuss the future of the company in that context. To date, it was not considered appropriate to change Eurogare's shareholding, which is necessary for the legal integration of the company within SNCB. However, there is close operational cooperation between the SNCB and Eurogare departments for the follow-up of ongoing projects in Bergen and Namur. As was the case with the legal integration of Eurostation, SNCB will also comply with the social legislation applicable in the context of mergers in the case of Eurogare's integration and integrate Eurogare's staff within SNCB. The end of work at the Bergen railway station is planned for mid 2023. Mr Bourlard has an employment contract with Eurogare under which he is responsible for the day-to-day management of the company. He was also appointed by the General Assembly of Eurogare as the Executive Director. This mandate runs until March 2023. If one of the parties decided to terminate the employment contract, this implies that the mandate as delegated director also ends. As mentioned above, the end of work at the Bergen railway station is scheduled for mid 2023. After a difficult period as a result of the bankruptcy of contractors at the yard, the work resumed in full. It is therefore not a matter of speculating today on a further postponement of the work. As you rightly point out, it would not make much sense to start a search for a new director for a company for which, in the long term, an integration within SNCB is envisaged. Headhunters have never been called upon for such a search. As indicated, Mr Bourlard is responsible for the day-to-day management of Eurogare and is therefore responsible for following up, inter alia, the Bergen railway station project. As indicated, Mr Bourlard has an employment contract with Eurogare. In the event of a legal integration of Eurogare, the applicable labour law rules will be complied with. As shown by the annual report of Eurogare, which is public, Mr Bourlard received in 2019 a gross remuneration of EUR 147,275,66 as well as hospitalisation insurance and benefits in kind worth EUR 1,340,02. Mr Bourlard's employment contract does not provide for a specific departure allowance in case of Eurogare's integration into SNCB. Mr Roggeman, that is the end of the reply I received from SNCB and which I read out to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for reading the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u76	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is a correct decision not to seek a replacement for Mr Bourlard, given the prospects for Eurogare himself. I hope, however, that you will maintain that decision at the end of Mr Bourlard's contract. According to your explanation, there is a slight discrepancy between the expiry date of Mr Bourlard's employment contract and the intended expiry date of the works at the Bergen railway station. You are talking about an end date of the contract in March 2023, while the completion of the Bergen station is scheduled in the middle of 2023. It would not make much sense to seek replacement for the management for those remaining months. On the contrary, I think it would be desirable at that time to continue with the rotation of Eurogare in SNCB. After all, I have not heard any perspective from you about this tilt. You may also know that it has been shut down and that little or no progress has been made. It is strange that such a project does not seem to succeed, in sharp contrast to the situation in Flanders, where the operation did succeed. Mr Minister, I cannot get rid of the impression that this company is being maintained, just to finish the project of the Bergen station. The cost of doing so is increasing, so it may be interesting to leave management in the hands of a separate company, which can mitigate financial risks. This is in the interests of certain shareholders, but not in the interests of the taxpayer, who ultimately has to finance it all, wherever the costs are incurred. By keeping it in separate management, with all the additional costs for own management, with its own overhead and its own politically appointed management, I do not think it is desirable for public finances to allow this situation to exist, just for the construction of the megalomaniac station in Bergen. Moreover, this is not adapted to travel, only to the desire for prestige of local politics. Minister, I would like to point out that there are more passengers at Denderleeuw station than at Bergen station. An important difference may be that there is no headpiece of the PS in Denderleeuw. In any case, I call on you to continue to fertilize the Augias stable, because this is hanging together with hooks and eyes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u77	Thank you for your comprehensive reply, Mr Roggeman. As you know, I am very flexible as chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u78	Mrs Thibaut, I greet you as a former colleague of the Ecolo-Groen Group. But I don't have to do this... Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the SCNB informs me that, in order to operate a railway line effectively, it uses, as far as possible, the deposits at the top of the line to ensure return journeys. SNCB carried out a first study indicating that the Liège deposit on the Liège-Luxembourg line has these characteristics in addition to Gouvy's deposit. If this study is confirmed, some of the drivers in Liège will be trained, as are their colleagues in Gouvy, to the knowledge of the lines of the Luxembourg railway network, in order to ensure the operation of the trains to Luxembourg. SNCB confirms to me that it has no intention of deleting Gouvy's deposit. There will always be first train departures in Gouvy on this line, making it an indispensable deposit to ensure the economic exploitation of the line. Moreover, the impact on the workload of the Gouvy depot will, in any event, remain equally limited. Regulatory adjustments are announced and discussed at meetings and pre-concertion meetings. In the framework of Gouvy, two meetings have already taken place. The mechanisms for social consultation in this area have been well respected and I hope that they will lead to mutual understanding and effective organisation of this deposit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u79	Minister, thank you for that answer. If this question may seem sub-localist, defending a small driver depot in South Luxembourg, it is for me to defend both the safety of passengers and the safety of trains. These drivers practice the network. They know him and it is therefore important that they can practice him again tomorrow. Minister, your answer is really reassuring. The deposit of Gouvy is indispensable. It's also a deposit at the front of the line. This makes it possible to create jobs evenly distributed throughout the territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u80	Joined Questions No 55009502C by Mrs Catherine Fonck and No 55010505C by Mr Eric Thiébaut are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u81	Mr President, Minister, at the May 27, 2020 sitting of the Mobility Committee, your predecessor Mr Bellot, in his answer to my question on the free Campus card, mentioned the possibility of creating a "student" train every Friday for the return of students to the Province of Luxembourg. This calls in particular for the excellent initiative that had been taken to create the same system on Sundays for students of the province wishing to go to Liège. The success of this train means that the idea of repeating this project for the return of students to their homes is also important. The possibility for the students of Liège to have a dedicated train on Friday at the end of the day allowing them to avoid going through Namur by having 3 hours of journey is a chance for them and I certainly do not doubt the success that he will encounter. However, in the plan presented to this Commission at the end of June last year, no mention was made of this train. Minister, is the creation of this train finally effective? If so, is it possible to have an idea of the timing of its implementation? Still in the event of its creation, would you have any idea of the route taken and the timetable envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u82	Mrs Hanus, you will certainly find in the parliamentary annals questions that I asked in her time on the Sunday evening train. I had not thought at the time of the Friday night train for the return and I asked SNCB about the subject which tells me that "the commissioning of a P train, on Friday evening, to allow students to return from Liège to the Province of Luxembourg, is not planned under the transport plan 2020-2023. At present, from a technical point of view, the combination of the permanent single-track sections on line 43 Liège-Marloie and the single tracks following the long-term work, which was discussed with Mr Arens, not so long ago in this committee, on line 162 Namur-Arlon do not allow the creation of an additional rapid link on weekdays between Liège and Arlon without negative impact on the existing offer of these lines. The situation is different during the weekend, as the offer is reduced on the Liège-Marloie and Libramont-Arlon omnibuses. This explains why an Arlon-Liège route is technically possible on Sundays, and we are delighted about it, but it is not possible for an additional Liège-Arlon route on Fridays. Moreover, on Fridays, students spread their departure according to the end of their courses or extracurricular activities. Some leave Liège in the early afternoon on Fridays, others in the evenings, others on Saturday mornings. The demand is therefore more diffuse than that observed on Sunday evening, which makes it more difficult to set up a single train for return. The existing offer allows every hour on weekdays a return to the province of Luxembourg from Liège via Namur. Despite a longer journey time, it is therefore more flexible than the traffic of a single train. That is the answer that was given to me by SNCB, Mrs Hanus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u83	Minister, I thank you for the promptness of the investigation of the SNCB on this issue and above all for your frankness. I cannot hide my disappointment with this answer because it is true that your predecessor, Mr. Bellot, had not closed the door to this question and continued to feed it in committee by giving us somewhere a glimmer of hope. I think it is a train that is actually needed for students. Indeed, although there are different possibilities on Friday night, this train is still crowded out of VOCID-19. In fact, we could now see the attendance during the period VOCID-19, knowing that the students make extensive use of telework, if I may say so. This is a real demand in the south of the province given the high attendance of students on these trips during this particular Friday night period. You confirm that this is not included in the Transport Plan. This confirms what I had already investigated for my part. It is true that this is a subject on which we will have to continue working during this legislature because it necessarily meets a need of students in the South of the Province of Luxembourg. Thank you for trying to take it into consideration in the future of your mandate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u84	Question No 55009667C by Mr Arens is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u85	Our air traffic controller skeyes have been struggling with a staff shortage that hasn't been resolved for years. Social unrest has never been far away in recent years by not being able to take holidays, overtime, getting late schedules, the desire to provide a minimum service on the side of skeyes. The list can still be supplemented. A new planning system was introduced at the beginning of 2020. Air traffic controllers should work up to six shifts in a row, but with more objective criteria. In the coalition agreement, I see hopeful signs. I see that there is talk of a willingness to cooperate with the social partners in order to give the social dialogue every opportunity once again. It says literally: "The government will encourage social dialogue with the perspective on the continuity and quality of services intended for all stakeholders." I have a number of questions about this, Minister. How will you deal with the situation at skeyes in the coming years? There's a lot to put right there. So what initiatives can we expect from you? What is the state of affairs regarding the staff shortage, and what are the prospects there? How is the new planning system introduced at the beginning of 2020? Do you have or plan consultation with management and trade unions? What is the provisional state of play of this? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u86	Mrs Jiroflée, as you rightly point out, there is a desire in the government agreement to involve stakeholders more generally in our decisions and in the management of the various state files. As part of a reinforced consultation process, I will meet the various actors, the world of aviation, rail, road and mobility in general, including the social actors. These contacts have already begun. The meetings are still going on if I do not sit on the Mobility Committee. To date, I have not been able to meet and understand all the various key players in the skey file whether and what difficulties this company is experiencing in this area. I will, of course, be very careful to ensure that the companies under my supervision are managed efficiently and in compliance with the social guarantees. I have a more precise answer to your second question on the newly introduced new planning system. Under the collective agreement concluded on 18 September 2019, a professional planning system for air traffic controllers has been established since February 2020 that allows a much more even distribution of the workload to be achieved, to provide crew based on the traffic supply and the application of social legislation and to comply more strictly with fatigue management. The impact of COVID-19 is enormous for the aviation sector, as you know. Following the corona crisis, which had to be played even faster on the ball, due to the variability of traffic criminality, on the one hand, and the availability of staff, on the other hand, a collective agreement was concluded on 18 March 2020 to speed up playing on the ball and to provide an additional mechanism for full respect for social legislation and fatigue management. At present, descriptions are underway to gradually return to a full implementation of this planning mechanism. As I have said, I will meet all the social players on this subject and, on the basis of dialogue, try to improve things in terms of skeyes, but also in other places.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u87	Of course, Minister, I forgive you this time that you have not seen all the actors. The problem is pressing enough to draw your attention to it immediately at your arrival. That was the purpose of my question. I hope that you will live up to your intention and take the time to meet all the actors in the coming weeks and months. We will, of course, follow that very closely. In any event, I intend to ask you again a question just after New Year's. Then you may have a more concrete state of affairs. Thank you very much for your preliminary answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u88	Mr Van der Donkt stated that he was unable to attend this afternoon's sitting. I call Mrs Vindevoghel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u89	Minister, SNCB's staff are concerned about the approach taken by SNCB to the corona crisis. On 12 October I was told that in the depot train accompaniment Leuven five SNCB colleagues would have tested covidpositive. With Medicine for the People, we did tests in La Louvière. Of the 44 subjects tested, 12, or one in three, were infected. Those are hallucinating numbers. A newsletter from SNCB, signed by the top manager, said that there are indeed more infections, but they are not from the professional sphere and come from the private sphere. Meanwhile, the train escorts continue to be asked to carry out a check on the tickets. That is why I have a number of questions. How many staff members of SNCB were infected with the corona virus between 1 October 2020 and today? In which functions do most positive cases occur? SNCB stated that the already known infections were mainly outside the professional sphere. How does SNCB know that? Can the SNCB's train escorts again only check visually, as during the first corona wave? If not, why not? I have also heard that a virologist has made recommendations for Sophie Dutordoir. What were those recommendations? Does SNCB take that into account? Given the pandemic and the weekend crowded by the "Hello Belgium" travellers, would it not be better to open up the first-class trains to the second-class passengers in order to spread the passengers as much as possible across all carriages? I know that that question was also asked by Ecolo.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u90	Minister, this question focuses on employees. Another question from me, much later on the agenda, is about passengers and a more general picture of health on the train. However, this question focuses on the workplace. The number of infections has increased over the last few weeks or the last month. Fortunately yesterday it was reported that a flattening of the curve is beginning to become clear. However, the workplace appears to be one of the places where the virus finds its way out. SNCB and Infrabel, as public enterprises, do have an exemplary role in relation to other companies. The government's corona guidelines are clear, including for companies. Homework has to be where it can be and keeping a distance is crucial. Where that is not possible, a mouth mask is always mandatory. What policy are rail companies currently pursuing in relation to homework? During the previous wave we received images from concerned workers who show that safety measures are not always respected. Has this improved? Did SNCB learn lessons from that? Will there be more checks? What measures are being taken by the railway companies to reduce the number of contaminations in the workplace? How many workers are infected at the moment and how many workers are in quarantine? Mrs Vindevoghel already asked this question. I think this is particularly important in order to assess the impact of these staff shortages on the operation of the railway companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u91	Mr Roggeman, you can answer your question about extra corona support for the rail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u92	Mr President, is this about the question of the temporary extension of SNCB's subscriptions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u93	No, point 21: extra corona support for the track.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u94	Mr President, I seem to have another list of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u95	Mr President, you are talking about EUR 310 million of corona aid, but now the questions on corona contamination are on the agenda, if you will allow me to say so. I am, of course, not the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u96	Mr Roggeman, I suggest that you take a moment to look up the right question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u97	These questions are about corona contamination among SNCB staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u98	The questions were put together under item 21.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u99	I didn't ask any questions about infections in SNCB personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u100	The title of your question is: 'The extra corona support for the rail'.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u101	Mr President, that is actually a question with a different subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u102	Mr President, I think this is a misunderstanding. I did not ask any questions about infections involving SNCB staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u103	Mr President, Mr Vandenbroucke has tabled a question on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u104	Mr Vandenbroucke, is it true that you have tabled a question on this subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u105	Mr President, I have indeed tabled a question which deals mainly with corona contamination on the train, staff and so on. However, this question is grouped under item 43 with another question. I think my question fits better with the oral questions that have just been put, rather than with the question under point 43 with which my question has been merged.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u106	The President shall not decide whether or not to merge oral questions. If the Minister agrees, we can deal with the questions under item 43 together with the questions already put under item 21, in particular Mrs Buyst's question on the congestion of rail passengers at the Gent-Sint-Pieters station and Mr Vandenbroucke's question on the second corona wave and its impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u107	Mr President, I do indeed mean that question, which deals with the protection of the health of SNCB customers and SNCB staff. I believe that this is in line with the questions that have already been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u108	Mrs Buyst, does your question have a different subject?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u109	Mr President, the way in which questions are merged is indeed strange. The questions put by Mrs Vindevoghel and myself relate to the employees of SNCB and the railway companies. In addition, questions have been asked about the health of passengers on trains and about corona support. In my opinion, these are different subjects. My question under item 43, which you have just mentioned, relates specifically to the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station. I therefore find it strange that these questions have been put together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u110	The day order is drawn up by the committee secretariat and the cabinet of the minister together. They decide which questions are combined or not. I propose that we take Mr Vandenbroucke's question now, and that the other questions be included in the agenda as separate questions. Minister, can you agree to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u111	Mr President, I can now answer the questions put by Mrs Vindevoghel and Mrs Buyst and then the other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u112	Can you now answer Mr Vandenbroucke's question, which was included under item 43?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u113	Mr President, let it be that way, but perhaps next time it will be better to pay attention when putting questions together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u114	Let us follow the order of the day. I'm always trying to fix everything, but I can't always do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u115	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing our best and so far the organisation has not been so bad. However, we can do even better. Ladies and gentlemen, SNCB is an essential link in mobility in Belgium. SNCB is not an island. The virus is everywhere and therefore also within SNCB. SNCB has also played an important role throughout the pandemic, by helping people to go to work and school. Therefore, it is important that its train offer remains assured, so that its customers can continue to rely on the train for their essential journeys. The trains thus continue to run according to the planned offer. The points of contact and travel centers remain open to travellers, of course with respect for physical distancing and other sanitary measures. SNCB and Infrabel follow closely and implement all the federal government's guidelines and decisions regarding the fight against the coronavirus, both with regard to staff and with regard to travellers. The virus does not save the staff of SNCB. In the week of 19 October 2020 the total absenteeism for all employees was 7%. This figure is slightly increasing, probably because of the sanitary situation in Belgium, which experienced a sharp increase in the number of infections at the time this answer was written. The situation is somewhat better now. However, the increase in staff is not alarming. SNCB will do everything in its power to ensure that staff are able to work in an environment which meets the maximum safety standards. SNCB closely monitors the state of health of its staff. To this end, in cooperation with the occupational doctors, it has activated an additional contact follow-up procedure from its external office for prevention and protection at work. This procedure strengthens the existing contact follow-up organised by the government. As a result, it can be provided with a reasonable assurance that any contamination reported will be monitored. As regards prevention measures, directives were laid down by Ministerial Decree to ensure the safe organisation of public transport. SNCB and Infrabel have adapted their working procedures in accordance with these guidelines and in consultation with internal and external prevention services. For train drivers, this means, among other things, that they can carry out checks without physical contact with customers and their ticket. I was able to establish that last week. SNCB also informs us that in order to ensure a smooth and efficient follow-up of the contact, in order to safeguard the health of the employees, the Belgian railways have decided to organise a further follow-up, in collaboration with IDEWE's occupational doctors and nurses, who act as an external service for prevention and protection at work. IDEWE's occupational doctors are able to take into account the working situation and the collective and individual protective equipment present. The procedure within the Belgian railways was launched in July 2020. To date, 241 tracings have already been carried out within SNCB. This answer dates back a few days ago. Within the railways the situation is followed daily by a steering committee that strictly complies with the federal regulations and the recommendations of the Public Health Office. Many measures have been taken to protect employees and at the same time to ensure the continuity of services to the public. The organization of the work was thus adapted to current special circumstances by either introducing as much telework as possible or by complying with social-distanting measures. Where social discrimination is not possible, appropriate protection measures shall be taken to protect the employees concerned, in accordance with the exception rules applicable to such situations. It is impossible to list here all the concrete measures that SNCB is taking to protect its employees. However, employees are kept constantly informed through reports on the various intranet pages or their hierarchy or trade unions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u116	Minister, you said that no more physical checks should be carried out, while we have heard from the ground that staff receive an e-mail every 14 days in which they are explicitly asked to check passengers. So I don't understand it very well. The staff are very concerned that they will be infected, especially if the trains are quite full. The union informed us that IDEWE does not have enough people and resources to do its job properly. I hope that extra staff will be deployed there to ensure that people can be tested and detected very quickly, so that the number of infections can be reduced. I know there's a recruitment stop for train escorts. I think it is very important that this recruitment stop should be reversed and that sufficient staff should be provided so that passengers can be properly accompanied.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u117	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Both during the first lockdown and during the second lighter lockdown, the train crew of the two railway companies ensure that the train supply remains assured. I would like to thank all those people for this. I heard in your reply that SNCB and Infrabel are committed to as much homework as possible. It is good that public companies are also trying to comply with these measures. Workers should never be afraid to come to work. An employer has an important role to play in ensuring that employees feel good and can do their work without worrying. I also hear that SNCB is trying to comply with the corona directives as closely as possible and that lessons have been learned from the first wave by exercising even more control over them. We must continue to monitor this and stand on the side of those who ensure that the supply of trains is assured so that they can perform their jobs safely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u118	Mr President, Minister, a few weeks ago in the Committee on Finance and Budget, your colleague announced that the railways could count on EUR 310.9 million in additional support. Of these, EUR 264 million is earmarked for SNCB and EUR 47 million for Infrabel. According to Secretary of State De Bleeker, this measure is mainly intended to compensate for the loss caused by the corona crisis. I have a few questions about this. For what period is this aid foreseen? Is this to compensate for damages incurred in the full year 2020? Does this also apply to the loss of expected losses in the coming year? For what precise period do we want to cover the costs? What is the estimated total cost as a result of the corona crisis for SNCB? What damage has Infrabel suffered as a result? According to State Secretary De Bleeker, the additional support to the rail system is intended to cover most of the loss. What other destinations is this money intended for? What specific cost items should this additional funding cover? Does this fall into general resources or does it concern specific aspects of the public service? If so, which one? Is there a maximum amount or do you expect the invoice to continue to rise if the measures are to be extended in the coming months? Finally, how are management contracts with both companies adapted to this additional funding?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u119	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, as a result of the covid pandemic, SNCB and Infrabel have submitted files to the government to compensate for their losses. These losses are provisionally estimated at € 264 and € 46.9 million for SNCB and Infrabel respectively for 2020. This gives a provisional total of 310.9 million euros. These amounts were analysed and discussed with the companies and a proposal for compensation was submitted to the Council of Ministers. A decision was made on this matter. The Federal State decided to compensate SNCB for the amounts calculated on the basis of the forecast made in August. SNCB informs me that the reasons why it remains at a loss even after compensation by the State, because the aid does not cover all the losses, are the following. Only losses related to the old activities will be compensated. Loss on the variable part shall not be compensated. The compensation was calculated on the basis of the forecast for the month of August. The additional losses of the second wave and the most recent corona measures are not yet charged. We must re-evaluate this, not later than April next year. The details of the loss are next. There is a loss of income, because there was less traffic at national and international level. There were additional costs, 13.1 million euros related to corona, with 9.2 million euros for cleaning and disinfection of stations and rolling stock, 3.2 million euros for masks and hand gel and 0.7 million euros for various cases. Infrabel informs me that in the latest forecast submitted to the Infrabel Board on 27 October, the impact of the corona crisis on the results account is estimated at EUR 48.2 million. The most important element is the loss of the infrastructure charge of EUR 76 million due to the decline in traffic. The loss of SNCB's tax would be offset by a transfer of EUR 28 million. Infrabel also has an increase in costs as a result of the implementation of personnel protection measures. As I said, these are provisional figures. SNCB has played a very important role since the beginning of the pandemic. The trains have always been running and, as was the case in other economic sectors, SNCB has lost money. It makes sense that this was compensated by a government decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u120	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive and detailed explanation. I found it striking that you indicated that not all losses are compensated, and that the losses for the core activities are compensated, but that the government does not wish to intervene for a number of items. I find that striking, since that account will have to be paid by someone. If the government does not adjust now, it will inevitably end up with either the traveller or the debt of SNCB. This is certainly something that we will be monitoring further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u121	Minister, I have asked your predecessor a few times, but I have not received an answer, so I hope you will give me an answer. When the corona crisis broke out, a lot of airlines had to cancel their flights. The rules for a flight cancellation are very clearly laid down in European legislation: the consumer is entitled to an alternative flight without additional payment or refund of his or her ticket. I have been warning you since March of the unwillingness of some airlines to comply with the, yet clear, European rules. Your predecessor pointed out that, given the exceptional situation, tolerance had to be shown to the airlines and that the airlines had already been repeatedly reminded of their obligations. Everyone is in a difficult situation at the moment, and I also understand the difficult situation of the airlines, but of course the many consumers who do not get their money back for cancelled flights are no use. With your predecessor it was only words, but no deeds, while people just need help to get the reimbursement they are entitled to under the clear legislation. In the meantime, reports of Test-Achats have also been published on this subject. In August we received a whole list of pending complaints. I will not list them all, but it was about large numbers, and we can be sure that these figures are just the tip of the iceberg, hence my questions, Minister. How many complaints have been received about this? Unlike your predecessor, will you take action and take concrete steps to help consumers assert their rights? Please do not refer to the Secretary of State for Consumer Protection, as this competence falls under the responsibility of the Minister for Mobility. What action will be taken against the airlines that are breaking the rules? Finally, have you discussed this problem with your European colleagues, because it is obviously a problem that several Member States face?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u122	Minister, almost all airlines have felt compelled to cancel airline tickets due to the corona crisis. This is a very serious blow to these companies, but European legislation is also very clear. The ticket of the cancelled flight must be refunded in full. A fee voucher may be refused. Despite these clear directives, there are still many problems faced by dissatisfied consumers. Airline call centres are overloaded and unreachable. With online forms you can only ask for vouchers and no refunds. Many consumers have already made many attempts and have often been waiting for a refund for more than six months. After all these attempts, they don't know who they can turn to. Answers don't come out. They often receive a half answer or an answer that is not binding. Former Minister, Ms Muylle, said in the Economics Committee on 27 May that this was the responsibility of the Minister of Mobility. Mr President, are you sufficiently aware of this problem? How do you intend to deal with this together with the government in order not to abandon consumers? Who can they contact, especially for non-European airlines, such as Thai Airways, who feel much less called upon to implement these directives?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u123	Thank you for this very interesting question. It should first be noted that the provisions of the European Regulation were not drawn up in the context of the current pandemic. A general flight ban was imposed by the states themselves, which are responsible for monitoring their compliance. Nor does this Regulation empower the respective National Enforcement Bodies to force airlines to repay passengers. The aim is rather to reach or find a friendly solution between passengers and the airline. Having said that, I can give you the following answer. During the period from 15 March to 14 October, our services examined 2,707 dossiers on this subject. The time limit within which a dossier is dealt with is variable. This depends mainly on who can deal with the file and the complexity of the file. In exceptional cases, the deadline for reply may be one and a half months. The complaint handling procedure, determined by the European Commission, provides for a maximum period of six months. Although the initial response may be delayed for some time, the Passenger Rights Cell is still able to close the files for the time being within the prescribed time limit. The staffing of the Passenger rights cell is sufficient for a normal workload outside the corona crisis. At the moment there is a peak load due to the crisis, but the staff are committed to adapting and answering all questions as soon as possible. In support of its action, the Passenger Rights Cell sent several communications to all airlines operating from Belgium. The companies from which we have not received a reply, or whose complaints have been received after this date, have also been contacted individually, in order to further address the potential problems that have arisen with them. These letters have paid off. After all, the airlines no longer impose a voucher instead of a refund and we no longer receive any complaints on this subject. Our services are now working on a sensitisation of airlines so that they would shorten the time needed to transfer a refund to passengers. The European Commission plays a moderating and standardising role between States. Our services are also in continuous consultation with their counterparts in the other Member States of the Union, many of which have adopted a similar approach to that of Belgium. These consultations are also coordinated and the approach of all Member States is monitored at the level of the European Commission. There is currently no agreement between Member States to modify or replace the European Regulation in a structural manner. However, such a change should address several problems of compliance with passenger rights. However, work on this subject, which has already begun before the current health crisis, has been put on hold for a time. The Commission has also recommended taking into account the goodwill and financial situation of the companies to decide whether sanctions are appropriate. As the Minister responsible for air transport, I will not fail to ensure that the protection of citizens' rights is maintained correctly, taking into account the difficulties in the aviation sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u124	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am certainly glad that you are answering yourself and not passing the problem on to the Secretary of State for Consumer Affairs. That's a big step forward compared to your predecessor. I believe that we can all understand the difficulties faced by the airlines. However, this should not be an excuse for non-compliance with consumer rights. You began by saying that the existing European legislation was not made in the science of a pandemic as we are experiencing today. At the end of your speech, however, you say that it has already been decided at European level that there can be no structural change in this legislation. This means that this legislation will remain in force at 100% and that consumers, passengers, will be able to make use of their rights set out in it. You said that the services dealt with 2,707 files, which is a very large number. I was shocked to hear you say that your services have not received complaints since your services contacted the airlines. That's very strange, since I'm still getting a lot of complaints. So I think a little bit more can be done. It will certainly have to be closely monitored that airlines give consumers what they are entitled to, once again, with full understanding of the difficulties faced by airlines. I can imagine that it's about a lot of applications. However, I hope that you, as Minister for Mobility, insist that everyone can assert their rights to the full.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u125	Mr Minister, I hear that passengers can only go to the airlines for reimbursement. I also hear from you that, on the basis of the directive, you cannot force them to pay a refund. I also hear that good steps have been taken with many airlines, which is very important. Can you also tell us with which companies everything has been cleared out and with which companies there are discussions or further consultations? What if these companies completely ignore this? Surely we must ensure that as many customers as possible can get a refund or get something, because it is a very heavy blow for the airlines too, but people still need to be helped.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u126	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak for a moment to take stock with you of the rest of our work. We have just taken up item 22 of our agenda, with 78 items on it. I am referring here to points and not to the number of questions, since a number of them are attached. The minister told us that he worked until 6:00 p.m. because he then had another commitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u127	Mr President, allow me to stress that I work well after 6:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u128	I didn't say otherwise. I said you had to leave us at 6:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u129	That is correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u130	That's what I thought I said. But if I have not made it clear, I would be grateful if you would excuse me. I know you work a lot later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u131	I just wanted to make you a little joke.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u132	All this to say that we will try to deal with as many issues as possible, but not all can be dealt with. If some colleagues have questions that appear after point 30, they must know that they cannot be dealt with today. I am saying this to prevent them from waiting for 45 minutes unnecessarily, without knowing whether we can go to the point mentioned above. That said, if colleagues can be very concise or if they want to refer to the written text of their questions, we could move a little faster, but we have to take into account the time needed for answers and replies. In any event, we will not work beyond 6:00 p.m. and certainly not beyond point 30. But I repeat that if we want to be able to deal with more issues, members must refer to their text, but that must remain an individual choice. Everyone is free to refer to the text of his question or not. I am a president who is flexible and who does not cut the floor. I like that people can express themselves. As the minister said, he has been a Member of Parliament for a long time and as such he has asked many questions, sometimes at length. This is also the time when members can have answers to their questions, answers that can be detailed I know that the Rules of Procedure provide for speaking time, which we are asked to observe. But given the number of items on the agenda of our meeting, we will have to be a little stricter in the future if all matters are to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u133	Minister, it seems strange to ask a question about the heat in winter, but it is good that we get there in time. I have been a trade union delegate for a long time, taking care of the well-being of the people and thus knowing the welfare code pretty well. We have learned that, following an investigation by the FOD WASO on 6 October 2020, SNCB received a written warning for non-respect of the welfare codex, stating that, if the infringements are not corrected, certain trains will be put on hold. We hope, of course, that it will not come to that, from where my questions and my hopes for a good plan for next summer. First of all, is it true that the FOD WASO has the authority to ban SNCB cars, especially during heat periods? Secondly, what percentage of the current SNCB fleet does not have air conditioning today? Thirdly, SNCB's current heat plan consists of five phases. Can you explain that? When will the heat plan be announced? Fourthly, SNCB did not meet the obligation to draw up a programme and to take specific measures in the last summer. What steps does SNCB have to take to establish itself as a rule? Is it possible to provide air-conditioned lockable spaces for train supervisors? Perhaps it could be suggested to adjust the work clothes, working hours and or the ventilation. Or drink can be provided, all of which are measures to protect staff, and they are needed because there were a lot of work accidents during the heat wave last summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u134	Mrs. Van Camp is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u135	Minister, this is the first time that I have had the opportunity to address myself directly to you. That is why I use it to congratulate you on your new assignment. I would also like to refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u136	SNCB informs me that, in normal circumstances, a train with air conditioning is available for 66% of passengers during the week. In July 2019 we experienced high temperatures, which led to a sharp increase in the number of incidents involving infrastructure and equipment, sometimes causing major disruptions and inconvenience to customers and SNCB staff. When it becomes more than 30° degrees and that temperature persists, it can indeed become unpleasantly warm in a carriage without air conditioning, just like in any room without air conditioning anyway. The decision to activate the measures of the heat plan shall be taken no later than two days before its implementation in order to allow proper communication to passengers and to adapt the transport plan in the Infrabel system. The heat plan means that a preventive decision is taken not to let a number of trains run and that customers are asked not to get on an overheated train, if there is an alternative with air conditioning. In addition, as far as possible, part of the equipment should be used differently so that a larger number of passengers can take an air-conditioned train. For the summer, the air-conditioning installations will be tested extra. In concrete terms, it means that the operation of all installations equipped with air conditioning is controlled and special maintenance interventions are carried out. SNCB is therefore well aware of the problems caused by heat waves for staff in carrying out the tasks. The equipment and work organisation of the moving personnel in the event of heat waves should be dealt with in the management committee for prevention and protection at the work of SNCB. It is true that SNCB is subject to an inspection on the reference values of the welfare codex in that respect. SNCB will respond to this through the usual channels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u137	Minister, you have not answered some of my questions. Can FOD WASO effectively prohibit trains if they do not comply? I know the welfare code pretty well. There's a lot of rules in heat. If SNCB fails to meet these standards and conditions, there may well be a serious problem. How many vehicles are not yet equipped with air conditioning? Will you make additional efforts to provide more trains with air conditioning? It is often a question of staff effectiveness. Since workers need to be able to rest in the heat periods on time, it may have serious consequences if they have to work in the heat for a longer period of time - there should be sufficient staff available. In addition, there must be sufficient facilities to protect staff from the heat. Last summer it was very difficult to work for the staff, especially with the mouth masks. I did not receive an adequate answer to the question concerning the concrete planning for next summer. I really hope that, together with the workers' organisation, a good plan will be put in place from now on by next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u138	I am not entirely satisfied with the answer either, but I am positive today. I've heard two positive things. SNCB is apparently well aware of the heat problem. It is difficult to do otherwise when such a warning is given. That insight is worth a lot. We are currently in autumn, after which winter will follow the spring. High temperatures are therefore not directly at the door. This gives the Minister and SNCB time to work on the heat plan for the next summer on the basis of the comments and the concrete elements which can be improved. As Mr. Arens would say, you composed sur vous.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u139	Do you refer to your written version, Mrs. Vindevoghel?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u140	I would like to take the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u141	I've tried, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u142	Nice try, Mr President. We received an email from Jarne, a physics student at the Vrije Universiteit Brussel, who lives in Ghent. He's taking the train to college. For this, he has an annual subscription that costs 348 euros. He also works a bit in a restaurant, but that is now of course closed. Young people like Jarne are seriously affected by the pandemic. Jarne is the victim several times. He can't go to school. He can't do a student job. In addition, the cost of his train ticket will be added. Mr Minister, can SNCB provide an opportunity to pause subscriptions, taking into account the many students and employees whose subscription has become temporarily unusable? The government agreement states that SNCB will receive more tariff autonomy under the management agreement to be drawn up. Will the possibility of suspending subscriptions be included in the next management agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u143	At the Mobility Committee of 22 September 2020, my predecessor was already asked about exceptional possibilities for compensation for subscribers to SNCB. SNCB once again confirms to me that its passengers can always make use of the existing compensation arrangements. The three other public transport companies............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Each policy level has taken action in the area of mobility. At the level of SNCB, the government has decided to offer all residents of Belgium over the age of 12 through the 'Hello Belgium' Railpass 12 free train tickets to be included within a period of six months. The pause option mentioned in the questions is a temporary pilot project of De Lijn, in which subscriptions can be used more flexibly. The conditions of the pilot project do not allow the subscription to pause during the weekend or during the school holidays. In reply to my question, SNCB is examining the possibilities of developing a subscription formula that responds to the growing importance of teleworking. The pilot project is not valid for customers who have purchased a combined subscription to SNCB-De Lijn. These customers already benefit from a 10% discount on the standard prices of De Lijn's subscriptions. SNCB informs me that about 35,000 travellers have a combined commuting ticket and 12,000 travellers have a combined living-school subscription.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u144	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and now return to Members for their reply. Mr Roggeman is the first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u145	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. You refer to the existing compensation scheme applicable to SNCB, but you know very well that it can only be invoked in the case of abandoned trains and trains with very much delay. In other words, subscription holders are of little use when it comes to the conditions of the lockdown. After all, that does not apply at all to those people. I am therefore sorry that you are following your predecessor's line and that you are not in favour of a pause button system or an alternative renewal of subscriptions following the lockdown. However, with bus transport, Flanders shows that this is actually possible and feasible. Too bad you're blocking the same thing for SNCB right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u146	Mr Minister, I too am rather hungry about the compensatory measures for subscribers. After all, the existing compensation scheme does not apply to them and, of course, they also have little on a free Railpass. I hope that we will be able to work out a better arrangement in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u147	I am also disappointed because there is no solution for the people who do not use their subscription during this lockdown and cannot put that subscription on pause to continue using it later. A solution must be sought, for the students but also for the working people who are not currently using their subscription. Yes, I'm disappointed by the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u148	Mr President, there were also questions from Mrs Verhaert and Mr De Spiegeleer on this subject. Mr Roggeman, it is my ambition, in close consultation with all the players, to draw up a real plan of concrete action to reorient rail freight transport. That's what the coalition agreement says. The plan is intended to be comprehensive. It will include investment measures in the field of infrastructure and will aim to promote innovation and digitalisation of the sector. The current system of support for distribution and combined transport will also have to be evaluated. And proposals will have to be made to improve their efficiency in the future. A legislative proposal is also being finalised to set up an aid scheme to help the sector financially in order to encourage it to invest in a braking system to reduce noise from rail transport. This plan must be submitted to Parliament before the end of this year. In addition, in order to alleviate the urgency of the health crisis, I have acquired the principle of compensation for Infrabel's losses, as has already been said in response to a previous question from you. As a result, it is possible not to charge railway operators the cancellation of train paths and the administrative costs until the end of September 2020. This has an impact of EUR 3.3 million on freight transport. My administration is examining the legal feasibility of the possibility of drastically reducing the amount of fees for the year 2020. Infrabel was also contacted to determine the cost and technical feasibility of the measure. I won't hide the fact that the timing is extremely tight. On the one hand, the European regulation, which allows the reduction of the levy on access to rail infrastructure for 2020, entered into force on 13 October. On the other hand, Belgium will have to switch to a new system for calculating the levy in December. So there are many projects on the table that will have to be implemented in the coming months. Choices and priorities will have to be made. I am in principle in favour of specific support for the rail sector in the context of the health crisis, but I do not yet express an opinion on the best way to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u149	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad to hear that you are very committed to the transport of goods. This is an important sector for our economy. I look forward to the development of various measures. You are talking, among other things, about the continuation of aid to distributed and combined transport. That has often been reworked and evaluated. In most cases, the aid is reduced. I can't wait to see how you're gonna do that. I hope, together with you, that the compensation for the damage suffered by 2020 can still be legalised this year. In any case, you will find us a partner in order to link parliamentary approval to it in a smooth manner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs us that it is the press who spoke to us about making the stations smarter or more intelligent. The contract will have an impact mainly on automation and central management. So we are talking about rationalising resources. However, there are also areas where customers' travel experience will be positively influenced. SNCB has been working for several years on a progressive guide for the supply and development of all necessary hardware and software for the uniform automation of the technical installations in its station buildings. These include 4.508 electrical signs and all associated installations, 335 lifts, 311 escalators, 710 sliding doors, components of pumping equipment, air conditioning and fire safety systems. The scheme is therefore a uniform automation of the technical installations in the buildings and stations operated by SNCB. So far, the sites have been partially automated in different ways, with separate calls for tenders each time. The company with which they are now engaged is commissioned to automate all electrical techniques on all sites and connect them to a smart building management platform. In this way, SNCB sets ambitious objectives for facility management. SNCB therefore expects to be able to operate more efficiently in terms of energy saving, maintenance savings, staff movement, uniform measurements and remote recording. It will also have a positive impact on real-time information to the traveller. For example, customers will be able to view online the status of the lift to the platform or other automated installations. The waiting room in the station will be open without physical intervention. The lighting can be controlled according to the opening hours, light sensors and/or movement. The projects that will start first are those which SNCB is already working on. For the projects later planned, the number of passengers travelling is an important criterion. SNCB and its partners are working on a detailed planning of the works. The framework agreement shall have a duration of six years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u151	Minister, I think it is an interesting project. It is a sensible choice to work together with the private sector and not to set up own systems, as has often happened in the past. I'm curious about the progress. I had also asked a few questions about the situation and planning by station. You have explained that the number of departing passengers will be one of the most important criteria. This gives a lead, but if you have any additional information about the planning of the works and the adjustments that are planned for each station, it is certainly welcome. After all, you mentioned the number of lifts and the adjustments needed, so I suspect that SNCB has at least made an assessment for which the installations are intended. So I'd like to get that information. If it is necessary, I will ask a written question about it, but if it can be done by this route, it is of course also welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u152	Thank you, Minister, for explaining this project. It does seem to me to be a good investment. It sounds very good that we can review the status of escalators and elevators online. I hope that the project can also help to ensure that escalators and elevators work effectively at all times and everywhere. Last year, for example, there were 2,000 failures on the 560 escalators and elevators. That's a big annoyance to many travelers. I hope that this project will help to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u153	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I did not hear everything I wanted to know, but I also have a written question on this subject. I will await the answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u154	Mr President, I refer to the written version of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u155	Mr President, it is a bit strange to start with 'yes' if the question is not really put out loud. Yes, Mr Raskin, the concern in the customs services was unjustified. This law does not provide for any additional exceptions for customs services, but does not provide for any fewer exceptions. That was apparently the intention of the authors of the bill in question and the resulting amendment, but you know that better than I do, since I did not take part in the committee meeting in which the text was discussed and adopted. The only thing that has changed for customs services is the rule regarding passing a red traffic light. As is the case for other priority vehicles carrying out an urgent task, customs services with an urgent mission may also pass the red light at a moderate speed, instead of having to stop like everyone else. The answer to the four questions raised by your second oral question is no. My administration has so far received no request from the FPS Finance to amend the traffic regulations concerning the urgent tasks of the customs services. As indicated in my answer to your similar question, the situation of customs services remains the same as before the entry into force on 1 October of the Law of 16 July 2020. However, we have to admit that the law has made things rather complicated and has not promoted coherence in the traffic rules. This does not improve legal certainty. In particular, the consistency between Article 37.5 introduced by the Law of 6 July in the existing Article 59.13 and the existing Article is not ideal. So there is still some work to be done to keep the whole thing clearer and to provide legal certainty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u156	It was an extensive question with different partial answers. I'll take the time to read the answers quietly. I remember, above all, that the concern would be unjustified. I'm not convinced it makes things more complex. We will perhaps have that debate again in the future when I have read your answers in detail in peace.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u157	Question No 55009789 by Mr. Ben Achour is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u158	Mr Raskin, we need to focus more on sustainable means of transport with the train as the backbone. If we look at the train's market share in the number of commuting trips from Hasselt to Brussels, we notice that in 2018 70% of the people took the train. We must continue to use ways of promoting this modal shift. Bringing passengers by bike to the station and using larger and better secured bicycle parkings are a good example of this. I'll work on that. SNCB notes that some 60% of its passengers leave the 26 most visited stations. SNCB has made clear its intention for the new transport plan. The main lines are the creation of new links between cities through the introduction of additional IC connections, the further expansion of suburban offerings in Brussels, Ghent, Antwerp, Liège and Charleroi and a further expansion of the offer around the other cities, both in terms of frequency increases and amplitude. That is the answer I can give you from the point of view of SNCB. As far as Brussels is concerned, as has already been pointed out in plenary, I have not yet received a document or a proposal from the Brussels-Capital Region. When I get it, I will read it carefully with the government and talk about it very politely with the colleague of the Brussels-Capital Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u159	Minister, with all due respect, I have to say that the answer you give is a very global one. I had asked you if you would acknowledge that there are not enough alternatives to driving to Brussels, apart from the Flemish Ruit. I did not receive a specific answer to that question. I would also have asked you how you wished to respond to that. I didn't hear that answer either. I also asked a question about possible transitional measures. I didn't hear that answer either. You have given a general answer on the use of sustainable mobility and modal shift. That's your well-known story, which, by definition, I'm not entirely opposed to either. You also refer to your ambition to organize new connections, which is not a problem in itself, but then you will of course be confronted with very complex puzzles like the saturation of lanes and so on. It is therefore not that simple, certainly not in my province, but also in the province of Luxembourg, both more peripheral provinces. Again, with all due respect, I have not received any answers to my questions. So I'll come back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u160	If the Minister does not have any additional elements, you can indeed come back with a new question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-10-55-commissie-ic301x.u161	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55009916C, 55010012C, 55010147, 55010170C and 55010702C of Mr Vandenbroucke are converted into written questions. Question No 55, by Mr Parent (H-5010218C) and Question No 55010649C Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Van den Bergh 55010386C, 55010387C, 55010688C and 55010694C by Mr De Spiegeleer; 55010029C, 55010155C, 55010178C and 55010554C by Mr Toventors.
