ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic271x.u1	Mr. Chair, Minister, the balances ended with a catastrophic balance sheet, a 40% decrease in sales compared to a normal year. According to the Union des Classes Moyennes (UCM), one in two stores could thus put the key under the door before the summer of 2021. This situation is due to various factors: the duration of the shopping was limited to 30 minutes and to one person (following two in the last week of the sales); many items could not be tried. In addition, many citizens have now become accustomed to online shopping, especially during confinement. In the future, we will have to take into account this new mode of consumption. Finally, many consumers reportedly made their purchases abroad in July. It follows from all these factors that traders' visions are red and that stocks remain large, causing substantial cash flow and space problems, thus preventing retailers from properly exposing new collections. Minister, what is your record of this month's sales? Was it finally a good idea to postpone the balances? This decision had been endorsed by a majority of associations representing traders, but not by all. I am thinking in particular of the Belgian Federation of Trade and Services (COMEOS), which had clearly voted against the postponement. Many accuse your government of having in a way dropped the balances by imposing very strict measures. Shopping alone, masked and in 30 minutes, does not induce strolling, discovery of products, comparison or fitting. Do you share this finding? Does the federal government therefore envisage a form of compensation for traders? What measures have been taken or will be taken to support traders in the face of this loss of profits? To what extent can the arrival of new collections be delayed? Why did you not accept the request of the Neutral Independent Trade Union (NIS) to extend the period of the balances? How do you help traders develop their online business? Is there any consultation with the federated entities on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic271x.u2	Mr President, Mrs Rohonyi, at the outset I would like to tell you – and I think you will agree – that all the traders unfortunately knew that these balances, given the VOCID-19, would be bad. This is the reality, and we all know the situation of the self-employed in the trade sector today. That is why I have put in place the use of the bridge right of resumption to support the self-employed, even if they have resumed their activities. All businesses can benefit from this when they are non-food, have been closed for at least one month and have experienced a 10 % drop in turnover, which is easily encountered in view of the closure period. In addition, we worked with the SPF Economy to produce a campaign with a number of well-known personalities in the North as well as in the South, in order to remind us that the essential rules applied to protect the health of traders as well as that of the customer and the employee allow us to do our shopping in complete serenity. You will have noticed that the last National Security Council, in view of the strict rules imposed on the trade sector, has opened and relaxed the possibilities given to customers and consumers to do their shopping not only with two, but with all their close contacts, and even beyond, if the safety distances are respected. I would point out that this carry-over of balances supported by the three main organisations representing traders and self-employed (SNI, UNIZO, UCM) was also supported by the Higher Council of Independents and SMEs (CISME), the body representing the self-employed. On the other hand, it was not the federal government that decided this postponement – although I supported this approach. I would like to remind you – if you have forgotten, Madame Rohonyi – that it was a law that established it. You voted unanimously. It was useful to remind him. In short, it remains extremely difficult. I also want to stress an important aspect of your question, which concerns e-commerce. Belgium ranks third in this year's Digital Economy and Society Index, which measures the integration of digital technologies into companies. So our country is ahead of the European average. These good figures should not, however, obscure the efforts to be made. The current crisis only underscores the need for SME support to succeed in this transformation. I was able to defend this objective during the "Dose Digital" campaign for the self-employed and SMEs, to encourage them to move towards digitalisation and artificial intelligence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic271x.u3	Minister, thank you for your very detailed answer. The traders were quite certain that the balance sheet of their sales was going to be very bad. My question was not intended to attribute this result solely to health rules, since they were necessary. That wasn't my point at all. Through my question, I wanted to highlight a task that will be the responsibility of your successor, namely the need to support this sector. Even if the decisions of the National Security Council can be justified, they continue to evolve. It is therefore extremely difficult for this sector to organise and continue to attract customers. For the carry-over of the balances, yes, it was a law that approved it. If I do not want us to come back to this decision, I would nevertheless like us to learn from it, because there has been a great deal of confusion in the minds of consumers. In the future, therefore, it seems to me that we should no longer decide to touch on the period of the balances. As far as e-commerce is concerned, it is, in my view, a point of attention that will have to guide the work of the next minister in charge of the Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic271x.u4	Question No 55008383C by Mr Laaouej becomes moot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic271x.u5	Mr. Chairman, Mr.Minister, my question is quite short, but it is important. With the health crisis, we are all aware that it is recommended to pay for our purchases by card rather than cash. Nevertheless, payment per cash remains easier, especially for small amounts, for many of our fellow citizens. However, I have received a lot of feedback from citizens, pointing out to me that some signs simply refused cash at this time, which is, unless I am mistaken, illegal. Minister, do you confirm that such practices are illegal? Can you also recall what are the current recommendations to stores? We know that we are in a specific period, but it is important to recall the rules in force. Minister, I wanted to share with you these many questions that have come to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic271x.u6	Mr President, Mr Vanden Burre, I have also received a number of returns. You are therefore right to ask for all the details in this regard. As you said yourself, card payment is recommended. It is true that the crisis of VOCID-19 has led to an increase in the refusal of species due to the fear of transmission of the virus during manipulation. However, legal tender for coins and banknotes is a principle of European law. It implies that they must be accepted by the creditor, where there is an obligation to pay. The Commission has also recalled this in a recent communication. Therefore, if traders can encourage the use of electronic means of payment – and one can only repeat that, paying by card, it's reducing manipulation and it's putting a brake on the virus – it's still a recommendation and nothing more. I therefore confirm to you that traders, for example, cannot refuse from the outset the coins and notes offered by a consumer for payment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic271x.u7	Minister, thank you for your very clear answer, which is in line with what we think. I will communicate it to the citizens and associations who have contacted me on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic271x.u8	Mr President, Minister, on July 6, you stated on BelRTL that a number of distribution and delivery platforms required far too much commissions from the restaurant owners. In your opinion, these platforms would benefit from the crisis and the pressure on the sector to increase their earnings. In the face of this, you have decided to seize the Economic Inspectorate. Minister, what has happened since you seized the Economic Inspectorate? Has she ever communicated on the subject or made a decision? What do you think is the amount of a reasonable commission and how much do you think is excessive? Why didn't you put a ceiling in your legislature? If you remain a minister, are you going to put a maximum threshold of 15% as many restaurateurs ask? Finally, what conditions must be met in order for you to seize the Belgian Competition Authority for abuse of economic dependence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic271x.u9	Thank you, Mr. D'Amico, and thank you for listening to me on BelRTL. You say you heard me on that occasion. Next time, I'll give you a little mic cuckoo. More seriously, this is an important issue, on which you are right to return. You probably know that I have received in my office all the actors to take stock of the injustice that is always felt in this area. But I'm not going to be able to give you a lot of things. Why? Because the Economic Inspectorate's investigation is still under way. It should be pointed out that it is a criminal investigation which is covered by the secrecy of the investigation, and carried out on charge and on discharge. Indeed, the complaints deal with the issue of the commission, but not only. Other aspects than this are at stake. The excessive nature of the commission is assessed on the basis of all the concrete circumstances, the circumstances of the case, the services rendered by the parties, the terms of negotiation and the other commercial and contractual elements surrounding the business relationship between the parties. Unwarranted pressure may also exist, leading some of the restaurateurs to accept a commission rate. You see that this goes further than the question of the committee. It is really a matter of judging whether abuses are committed in the context of the contractual relationship, in a broader way. I come to the question of the ceiling, Mr. D'Amico. The ceiling has not been set for a good and simple reason. Such a measure is prohibited by the European Directive of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market. So we couldn't produce it. Finally, the Belgian Competition Authority has not been brought before it because the legal provisions on the prohibition of abuse of economic dependence set out in Book IV of the Code of Economic Law were not yet in force. That explains it. However, as you pointed out, it would have been unacceptable, in my view, not to react to certain practices when the Horeca sector, particularly in the Charleroi region, is severely affected by the crisis. I have therefore seized the Economic Inspectorate so that this last investigation into the existence or non-existence of aggressive market practices in the sector. I expect the Economic Inspectorate to present the report of its investigation so that political initiatives can be taken to safeguard the Horeca sector that we both cherish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic271x.u10	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. So, like you, I am waiting for the Economic Inspectorate's report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic271x.u11	Mr President, first of all I would like to say that there is no order of surveyors. It is the Federal Council of Surveyors-Experts, which maintains the list of recognized professionals. That federal council also monitors the application of the rules of deontology and makes judgments in disciplinary matters. I cannot, of course, go into individual dossiers. However, I can confirm that my administration, which holds the Registry, has alerted the Federal Council to the rights of the complainant. In disciplinary cases, the complainant is not a party to the proceedings. This is a disciplinary procedure between, on the one hand, the Federal Council and, on the other, the surveyor expert against whom a complaint was lodged. That procedure is therefore not easily comparable to criminal and/or civil proceedings. In principle, therefore, the Federal Council should not automatically inform the complainant of its decision. The President of the Federal Council can explain to the complainant when he asks. That has happened in a number of files over the past few months. Moreover, the complainant will of course be informed of the outcome of his complaint. That M.O.'s the same as the lawyers. The Royal Decree laying down the detailed rules of the Public Register of the Institute of Accountants and the Tax Advisors, implementing the Law of 17 March 2019, which will be published shortly, includes the same rules. However, that does not mean that the complainant is given access to the full file. The deontological rules imposed by the federal council must ensure that the surveyor exercises his use in a correct and dignified manner and that the quality of service is guaranteed by the surveyor expert. It is therefore a question of general interest objectives. By definition, the Federal Council file contains documents of a personal nature containing an assessment or a value judgment of a named or easily identifiable person. Without evidence of an interest, the complainant shall not have access to the documents of the file in accordance with the Act on Public Administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic271x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. A number of aspects are indeed important, but I would like to stress that, not only in the mentioned procedures, but also in procedures in other professions, such as lawyers, we must try to ensure maximum transparency. I believe that that should be the objective. Today we are in a different situation than 20 or 30 years ago, when everything was completely decided. Maximum transparency and communication are good for such orders and professional associations, so that everyone can have confidence in them and take note of how a complaint is handled and with what result.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic271x.u13	I will end the work of the Committee on Economics, Consumer Protection and Digital Agenda. I would also like to thank the Minister for his cooperation over recent years. Perhaps it was the last time you were present on the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic271x.u14	It wasn't the last time. I'll be back.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic271x.u15	As a member of parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-30-55-commissie-ic271x.u16	That's a promise. This is not the last time we meet. I don't know if it's a minister or a member of Parliament, but we'll meet again.
