ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u1	Mr. Secretary, it's about an old file. Your predecessor replied to me in September. It was one of my first questions, by the way, that Mr Van Overtveldt had left it. That there was a residual government, in a transitional phase, and that he couldn't do anything directly with it. I thought that was pretty confrontational, but well, who am I? So the files have remained. What's it about now? On 25 July 2019, the European Court of Justice decided to refer Belgium to the Court of Justice for tax purposes, since Belgian taxable persons are in some cases taxed on the basis of the real rental value, while in similar cases the income from rented real estate in Belgium is calculated on the cadastral value. There is now the judgment of 12 November last, very recently, condemning Belgium to a fine of EUR 2 million and a penalty payment of EUR 7,500 per day for the way in which rental income is taxed differently, as long as the rules are not amended. You responded to this in a brief statement: "Once I have taken note of the file, I have instructed my administration to work out a solution. I will present it to the Council of Ministers in the course of the coming weeks. People with real estate abroad have long been waiting for clarity. I want them to be able to offer them quickly." Minister, we will hear about it later, but there are probably people here who want to broaden the tax base and reduce the tax on income from labour. Some will certainly hope that Pandora's box, which is the cadastral income, will be opened. If I were part of the government, I would think very carefully about it. I am, of course, curious about the solution that you have in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u2	Madam President, Minister, I have a question on the same subject. In its judgment last week, the European Court of Justice stated that Belgium did not comply with the measures imposed on Belgium on 12 April 2018 because of the different tax treatment of rental income according to which it is obtained in Belgium or in other countries of the European Union. The Court followed the European Commission in its assessment that the answers provided by our country were insufficient. According to the procedure, Belgium has now been ordered to pay a fine of EUR 2 million and a penalty payment of EUR 7,500 per day that does not comply adequately with the judgment. It is noteworthy that the lawyers of the Belgian State admitted that Belgium did not comply with the judgment of 2018 and only tried, with some success, to challenge the gravity of the fine. Minister, what options are you considering to comply with that judgment? Within what timeframe do you intend to apply this solution, given the time constraints imposed on our country by the penalty payment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u3	The previous speakers have given sufficient context to the problem. Minister, when do you intend to come up with a solution in order to comply with the judgment of the European Court of Justice? Can you guarantee that it will be a solution without a negative impact on tax revenue? Do you exclude that in the broader tax exercise, where we could broaden the tax base in order to significantly reduce the tax burden on income from labour, the rent income also comes into view?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u4	Mr. Vanden Burre is in our house, although no one knows where. Mr Matheï is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u5	This dossier has indeed been on the table for a while. At the time, the Belgian Government tried to demonstrate that the seriousness of the infringement found by the court in its judgment of 12 April 2018 could be taken into account. On the basis of statistical data, it was found that only a small percentage of taxable persons with foreign real estate income were actually taxed more heavily. In addition, the then federal government informed the Court that a legal solution was being developed, but that it required the political approval of a full-fledged federal government - which was not the case in the proceedings. Pending a legislative amendment, the Government has pointed out that the administrative circular of 29 June 2016 already contains a partial pragmatic solution to the problem. It allows the fictitious income of the property to be declared as a rental value if that fictitious income has been expressly approved or determined by a foreign authority. I became aware of this issue when I took office as Minister of Finance. So I immediately asked my administration to find a solution. It is currently working on a solution to eliminate the difference in treatment between real estate situated in Belgium and located abroad. I will present this solution to the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks. My intention is to table a bill in Parliament as soon as possible. In doing so, I try to limit the amount of fines as much as possible. As you know in the meantime, I am trying to find a solution as soon as possible. We'll find the right solution first. Then we'll put it in front of the government. Then, of course, we will inform you of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You have rightly referred again to the small percentage of the population that owns real estate abroad, let alone rents. That doesn't alter the fact that it's an important file after all. There are Belgians who do that, that is their right, and they are very curious about the legislative initiative, with which you will come. You also referred to the July 2016 circular on fictitious income, when approved by the competent foreign authorities. I know him, too. Looks like we're gonna have to stay hungry for a while. I'm very curious how you'll solve that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I'm satisfied with the answer. I am also confident that you will not be dragging things along, but that you will soon come forward with a fair and balanced proposal to the Council of Ministers and Parliament. We're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I understand the scoop is for the colleagues in the Council of Ministers. I certainly hope that it will be a solution that will stand up legally and that will not nibble at tax revenue either. You did not answer my second question. I assume that we will discuss this at a later date, perhaps next Wednesday. For sp.a, the stocking is not finished when the problem of the judgment has been resolved. We cannot remain blind to the totally different tax treatment of the forms of income in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u9	Mr Francken is not present, so his question No. 55010471C expires. Mrs Gilson is ill, so her question No. 55010472C is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u10	Madam President, Minister, the previous government has taken an important measure with regard to the advance payments of corporation tax and the personal income tax of self-employed persons, namely to offset, as far as possible, the bonification of the increase. More stringent penalties will now be imposed, following the reform of corporate taxation in the previous legislature. The government has ensured complete neutralization for the third quarter. This means that the bonification relative to the increase is equal to 0. So the punishment has actually been dropped, but for the fourth quarter we can see that there is still a discrepancy. Because of the covid crisis, many entrepreneurs in our country had no idea the amount of advance payments they had to make this year. We have had very difficult first quarters and it is only now that companies are beginning to see how many advance payments they have to make in terms of personal income tax and corporation tax. It is not unimportant to meet these people, to spare them and not to impose additional burdens on them. After all, they have lived in uncertainty for a year and can only now make careful calculations. That is why, Minister, I wonder to what extent you have considered with this new government to further neutralise the discrepancy of the fourth quarter. To what extent are you open to neutralizing the last outstanding increase? We have now had a new corona flare and have known the second wave. We see that the economic damage is less than in the first wave. We notice that with many companies the order book, which should be clear by now for the first quarter of next year, is shrinking. There are uncertainties about this, so I would like to assess to what extent there is something in the pipeline for the financial year 2021 for the advance payments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Van Lommel. At present, no adjustment of the current measure is envisaged. The percentages chosen strike a perfect balance between temporary relaxation and the maintenance of an incentive to make advance payments spread over the financial year. As the economic crisis lasts longer than previously predicted, the usefulness of this relaxation has been reduced. It therefore seems appropriate, and I believe that this is the main signal, to fall back on other aid measures, including the possibility of applying for individual tax deferrals.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u12	Madam President, Minister, I am somewhat concerned by your reply. I understand, of course, that there must be a balance between people who pay in advance in good time and those who do not. I fully understand that, but we must not be blind to the fact that many companies have lived in uncertainty for almost a year and only now have a view of whether they should pay corporation tax at all this year. Many companies may be making losses this year. I believe that we should not burden those companies, which are only now able to make the first careful calculations, with an increase. I really believe that what we did in the third quarter of this year, being a complete neutralization, should also be applied in the fourth quarter. I have carefully looked at this government's plans for the financial year 2021 and I understand that no measures are envisaged there for the time being. However, these are matters that we can evaluate in the first quarter of 2021. The first advance payment should in principle not be made until 20 April 2021. As far as 2020 is concerned, I insist that we should give entrepreneurs a little more care and understanding of the fact that they were simply unable to make those calculations. I have therefore tabled a motion of recommendation to the secretariat, in which we ask that the discrepancy between the increase and the bonification for the fourth quarter be completely neutralized. This is, in our view, the logic itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u13	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, responsible for coordinating the fight against fraud, - having regard to the economic damage caused by the health crisis and its negative impact on the liquidity position of our companies; - having regard to the second corona wave and the measures taken by the Consultative Committee; - considering the uncertainty caused by the corona crisis, which does not allow an accurate estimate for timely advance payments of corporation tax and personal income tax; - having regard to the measures previously taken which reduce the disadvantage of postponing advance payments, asks the government - further neutralise the adverse discrepancy between the increase and the bonification for the fourth quarter.' A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, responsible for the coordination of the fight against fraud, - in view of the economic damage suffered as a result of the health crisis and its negative effect on the liquidity of our enterprises; - having regard to the second wave of coronavirus and the measures taken by the Consultation Committee in this regard; - considering the insecurity caused by the health crisis involving the impossibility of accurately estimating advance payments made on time in corporate tax and personal tax; - having regard to previous measures which limit the disadvantageous nature of the postponement of advance payments; demands that the government - to continue to neutralize the disadvantageous gap between the increase and the bonus for the fourth quarter." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs. Nathalie Muylle. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Nathalie Muylle. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u14	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, congratulations. We haven't really been able to speak since your appointment. I did send you a letter, and I saw you send me a very nice letter. Thank you very much for that. I look forward to a good cooperation in the coming years. You have a very important position in this government, in this gigantic department. At the time, we held a meeting with the N-VA ministers every Wednesday evening at the Treasury Office under Johan Van Overtveldt. I have nice memories of that. Those were always fun and especially interesting evenings, and very intense evenings, politically speaking. You're sitting here now. Do it right, I'd say. It's not an easy department. Good luck. I follow you and I read your interviews, of course. That doesn't seem bad on the basis of what I've seen so far. I'd like to put a few things to you. We have a very difficult problem in the aviation sector. The aviation sector is the largest economic engine in this country after the port of Antwerp. Both Zaventem airport and everything that hangs around there from technology and innovation. There are very handsome companies there. We are at the top of the world with Asco and a whole range of other companies. It would be fantastic if you could see the opportunity to visit them. Do that. That's fantastic. However, we now have many concerns about corona. We have tabled a resolution, which has been adopted by Parliament, including by your party. I will give you that resolution, which I was the initiator of. It contains a number of proposals that the government can work on. I hope you will, too. I will continue to question you over the next few weeks and months about the airport sector. I hope that we will be able to exchange a lot of ideas about this. If necessary, I'll ask for hearings again. After all, I am getting signals that the situation in the sector is dramatic at the moment. My question to you is: what about the money that has been promised? Has that been deposited yet? Are the budget lines prepared for Brussels Airlines and skeyes? I hear they won't come with that money if it stays that way. Can additional agreements be made? Have you made any arrangements with them? Have you or has your head of the cabinet spoken to them yet? Are there any companies in the Belgian aviation sector who have also asked for help in the meantime? Which companies have already come to you? Have you spoken to the sector yet? What are your plans?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u15	Madam President, Mr Francken, you have indeed written me a kind letter and it is only logical that I should give a kind answer. I had also asked for an answer to be added for the calculation of the budget table, but it was probably left that way. I have heard from your colleague, Mr Jambon, who also visited me, that meetings have always been held on Wednesday evening and I will see how I can do that with my fellow party members. As far as your question is concerned, I naturally share your concern to continue to pay sufficient attention to it. A federal government support package of 290 million euros has gone to Brussels Airlines. There was also an aid package of EUR 170 million from Lufthansa. At present, there should be sufficient resources. As you know, Brussels Airlines has a very strict cost control system and flights are only organised if they are not effectively loss-making and therefore have a sufficiently high occupancy rate. In addition, they also implement a cost savings programme, Reboot Plus. That is currently in full swing. The majority of the social agreement will also be implemented by the end of the year. You asked me if I expected Brussels Airlines to face financial difficulties and how long Brussels Airlines will be able to cope with this EUR 290 million aid measure. Today, of course, it is very difficult to predict how we will get through the coming months. You know the situation yourself, and you know that there are a lot of uncertain factors. How will the evolution of the virus go? When will there be a working vaccine? When will there be confidence again to take the plane? When will people be allowed to travel again? Of course, we can only hope that this will happen as soon as possible, but much will depend on it. On the financial situation of the parent company, Lufthansa, I only have publicly available information. The resources from the federal government are "littlefenced." This means that they can only be used for our Brussels Airlines, not for the parent company or other companies. The parent company and the other subsidiaries Austrian Airlines and Swiss have also received substantial support packages from their respective governments in their respective home markets. The responsibility for skeyes lies with the Minister of Mobility. If you would like an answer to your question, you should ask him. At present no arrangements have been made to further increase the amount of State aid granted. Nor have any other airlines asked for support from the federal government. Of course, I fully share your concern. We follow closely the situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u16	Minister, I think it is very important to keep an eye on the sector in the coming months. I will also put a question for the organisation of hearings. I will also be happy to give you our resolution. That resolution is well organized. We have also worked hard on it for months, with many parties in this House. In our region, it is an immensely important company. All the companies around it, the whole aviation sector is immensely important. It's about many tens of thousands of jobs. There are also a lot of low-skilled jobs. There are finally young people from Brussels coming to work at our airport. That's really good. The staff has achieved excellent results there in recent years. By the way, you'll notice that yourself when you get on the plane. If you are served drinks or food, you should compare the situation well with ten or fifteen years ago. Then you notice that there is a very strong commitment to a mix of diversity and attracting young people. These young people are sometimes low-skilled, but they are their first chances of a job. They're beautiful projects there. It would therefore be very unfortunate if there were massive redundancies there and then they would have to start from scratch. These are often not the easiest target groups. I'd rather they tap a pint than they're sitting here in Brussels "on the cap," of course. I'm sure you'll feel the same way. It's fantastic what we've done on the property. The interaction between Flemish Brabant and Brussels is finally there. Let us also continue to do so in the future so that all these girls and boys stay at work. That is a huge challenge, including for this government. Of course, it is not only your responsibility, but it is a great challenge.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u17	Mr Minister, the tax on accounts and securities bis was approved on 30 October in the Council of Restricted Ministers. After so many assumptions, contradictions and circumvolutions, we finally find that this famous tax on the widest shoulders is nothing but a copy-paste of the Michel tax - all for that! - in such a way that Georges-Louis Boucher, the president of the MR, has indicated that, since the departure, it was a secret of polichinelle. In any case, it was for the initiates because, for our part, we were not in confidence. Clearly, Minister, you and your colleagues knew from the beginning that it was simply a matter of adjusting the Michel government's securities tax somewhat. You said that it was not yet defined and that you took note of it. In any case, transparency does not prevail in this case. The aspect on which I would like to ask you - I will only address one - is the following: how is it that this tax is supposed to target the broad shoulders, in fact savings? Indeed, it is well known that the largest fortunes hold their capital in the form of nominal shares and not via securities accounts. How do you justify this failure? Thank you for explaining this extraordinary contradiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u18	Mr Van Hees, thank you for your question. As you know, the draft law on the adoption of a solidarity contribution was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 2 November and is currently before the Council of State. Like any project, it is subject to adaptations, depending on the opinion to be given. It therefore seems premature to debate for the time being its exact configuration. Of course, the final draft will be the subject of parliamentary work. At that time, I will be at your disposal to discuss all its aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u19	Minister, if I understand you correctly, you don't want to answer me now. I find this attitude a little cavalier! You're telling us that we're still waiting for the advice of the Council of State. Minister, please excuse me, but don't hide behind such technical arguments! Why do you fear the political debate on this fundamental issue? Are we going to touch the widest shoulders? Obviously, no, since nominative actions are not targeted - and you know that. This is the very definition of a security account tax. In short, I do not understand why you are hiding and fleeing the political debate. If you hear it that way, we'll discuss it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u20	Minister, we have already shown interest in this committee, and still have, in the FinCen Files. Then, of course, we come to the problem of money laundering. At the latest Ecofin monthly meeting on 4 November 2020, the European Finance Ministers apparently expressed their support for the European Commission's proposal for an independent European-level regulator against money laundering and terrorist financing. The Commission would only present legislative work on this within a few months. This European supervisor was once proposed by the European Commission in the summer of last year and that was subsequently supplemented by a joined position paper of six EU countries, with, I believe, the Netherlands as one of the most important tractors. The supervisor would be given direct supervisory powers over a number of risky entities. The body could even take over the supervision of a national supervisor, in clearly defined and exceptional situations. The ECB is currently the only EU body with the power to punish banks, but cannot do so in the area of money laundering in the absence of a mandate. The ECB shall act only in the sporadic cases where money laundering events reported by other authorities would be a reason for withdrawal of the authorisation. Moreover, the withdrawal of an authorisation is also the only sanction available to the ECB and can only be imposed in extreme cases. In order to combat money laundering effectively, such sanctions should be complemented by a wider range of measures, in order to avoid waiting until, in a way, it would be too late to detect and stop transactions. The governance structure of the European Banking Authority or EBA has also proved insufficient for effective supervision of money laundering measures at EU level. It is said that the main decision-making body of the European Banking Authority is its Board of Supervisors, consisting of the banking authorities of the 28 EU Member States. I've just outlined the broad context. Can you explain to us more about the substance of this agreement, which apparently was concluded on 4 November, by means of videoconference, of course? What is the precise range of action of an independent European regulator? Did I correctly outline that? What exactly has Belgium taken a position on this issue? When can this European supervisor become operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u21	Madam President, Mr Ravyts, the Ecofin meeting on 4 November indeed adopted conclusions which the Commission supports in proposing a European supervisor with a clear mandate and a precise definition of his tasks and responsibilities. It is expected that the Commission will adopt that proposal during 2021. By aligning the scope of this European regulator with its added value vis-à-vis national money laundering and terrorist financing regulators, the principle of subsidiarity will be respected. The conclusions therefore confirm the important role of national supervisors in the European Supervisory System, which is based on close cooperation between national supervision and supervision by the European Union. The Council wishes the European regulator to concentrate first on financial institutions. A first phase would start with the relatively small group of high-risk obliged financial sector entities, which could then be expanded later. With regard to non-financial entities, the European Supervisory Authority would play a coordinating role to promote convergence of supervisory practices. Belgium has always supported the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, which are absolute priorities, and Belgium fully supports the Commission's legislative work in this area. Belgium is therefore open to setting up a European regulator, in particular in a pragmatic way, based on a risk-based approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u22	Mr Minister, thank you for the clarifications on Ecofin and those conclusions that have been adopted; 'agreement' may be a poorly chosen word. I would also like to thank you for the emphasis on the principle of subsidiarity, which, of course, is important to us. In our party, I will do everything in my power to bring about a favourable attitude towards a European supervisor, even though it is not always easy because of our well-known Eurocritical attitude. In the field of money laundering, however, I believe that the European scale should certainly also be recommended. I'll do my best to do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u23	Minister, the members of the N-VA have talked about the bath banks on several occasions. Technically, these are banks with non-performing bank loans. At the beginning of November, the growing concerns about non-performing loans were once again discussed in Ecofin. It is then about bank loans whose repayments are more than 90 days overdue or are unlikely to be fully repaid without the need for collateral. Because of the corona crisis, they re-emerge in banks. There is already an action plan for loans inherited from the 2008 financial crisis, and for some time now the idea of setting up a European bad bank has been in existence, but it is now evident that there is resistance because of the fear of risk sharing. Rather, there would be a network of European bath banks and common guidelines for the aid that States can contribute. In any event, the ECB set up a task force around the project by the summer of 2020. The bath bank seemed to have been a shielding instrument for a long time in view of the expected losses of banks on outstanding loans, in the most diverse form. For financial institutions, such a vehicle would be a way of keeping the more risky products on their balance sheet separate from the healthy parts. It was also stated before the summer that the ESM European Emergency Fund could be involved in order to guarantee a European bath bank. In addition, large European banks would be asked to support the project. In fact, the journalist Pascal Dendooven mentioned this in an article entitled "No quick solution for soft healers" at the beginning of November. He has once again shown that it is a very difficult dossier, which involves a lot of risks. Minister, what was Belgium's attitude? Can you give Parliament some explanation for the discussion in Ecofin?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u24	Mr Minister, my question is in line with Mr Ravyts' question. Last week, Andrea Enria, the bank supervisor of the European Central Bank, repeated his plea for the creation of a European bath bank in an article in Financial Times. According to Enria, a wave of defaults and problem loans due to the second European corona wave should be taken into account, not entirely wrongly I think. On 10 November, Het Financieele Dagblad headlined: Why a joint bath bank in the euro area is now a good idea. Minister, what amount of problem loans is currently on the Belgian credit institutions' balance sheet? Do you not fear that a European credit institution bath will take away the incentives to provide credit with caution and manage the risks properly if the directors know in advance that the problem loans can be removed from their balance sheet before the bank falls over? Is a European bath bank feasible, given the fragmented legislation on bankruptcy resolution and collateral rules, i.e. mortgages and privileges? The rank of privileges is politically very sensitive. What are the chances of setting up a European bath bank, given that no agreement has already been reached on a European deposit guarantee scheme? What is the Belgian position vis-à-vis a European bath bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u25	Madam President, Mr Ravyts, Mr Van der Donkt, it is indeed again at the Ecofin Council of 4 November 2020 that the European Commission has updated the implementation of the 2017 Action Plan on non-performing loans, the NPLs or non-performing loans, in the banking sector. The Ministers concerned agreed that the implementation of the remaining measures set out in the 2017 Action Plan should be accelerated. In this context, the European Commission is expected to present an update of the Action Plan at the beginning of December 2020. Afterwards, the Ecofin Council will also re-examine it. Indeed, in some Member States there are still many non-performing loans despite the progress made in recent years. In Belgium that level is relatively low, which of course also has an impact on our position. In the meantime, of course, we can expect the corona crisis to increase the share of non-performing loans in Europe. I repeat, however, that the situation in our country is positive in this respect. The idea of a European bath bank would be to obtain and centrally manage non-performing loans from the banks' balance sheets. In this way, we could improve financial stability at European level, which should improve stability. The positions of the different Member States on risk sharing are known, but not unambiguous. Some countries stress the need for risk reduction by addressing the problem of non-performing loans and building up sufficient capital buffers before solidarisation and risk sharing can be considered. We support the plea for risk reduction, but we also, of course, take into account what I mentioned earlier, namely the fact that this can have a positive impact if we carry out a risk sharing, because at that time we could improve financial stability at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u26	Minister, the last point in your answer reminds me of your predecessor, current Prime Minister De Croo, when it came to the so-called Eurobonds. We'll take a position in the middle. We weigh a little bit in the area of solidarisation. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for your reply, in which you state that the update of the action plan is continuing here and that a number of things, which have apparently not yet been implemented, need to be implemented more quickly and that the level of non-performing loans in Belgium is relatively low for the time being. We'll keep following up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u27	Mr. Secretary, you've given a pretty good answer. We'll keep following up on the file. You say that we are relatively good in terms of problem loans. I would have liked some more concrete figures on this. I will put a written question to that effect so that you have time to check it out. The bad bank's file is important and I hope that the government will come to a clear and clear position so that the banks know where they stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u28	Minister, I have a question about the scope of the securities tax. Much has already been said and written about this. There have also been clarifications since my question was tabled. However, there are still a few uncertainties as to the scope of application. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice Van Quickenborne recently said something in the press that increased this uncertainty. I am referring specifically to the exemption on the securities account for all those who, by reason of the nature of their professional activity, must necessarily use a securities account. On this point, your fellow Deputy Prime Minister said that an exemption is provided for. If the text of the preliminary draft law is read strictly, it is a very limited and exhaustive exception. Public authorities will then normally be included. Is it intended that all public authorities, if they have a securities account with at least EUR 1 million on it, will be subject to the tax? This is about university hospitals and intercommunals. Will they also have to pay the tax? What will happen to family holding companies holding shares in other companies through a securities account? Will they also be subject to the tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u29	Mr Donné, there was a similar question from your colleague, Mr Van Hees, but you were not logged in at the time. I will therefore reply in the same way. The preliminary draft law to which you referred was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 2 November and is currently before the Council of State for its opinion. As with any draft, we will have to consider whether there is any need to make changes to that opinion. That is why it is premature to discuss the exact content of this issue at this stage. When we present a final version, parliamentary work will be possible here and we will be able to discuss all these matters in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u30	Minister, I was already logged in when my colleague asked his question. I also heard the answer. That was indeed rather vague and unspeakable. I understand that the draft is still before the Council of State and that, if there are any comments, it will obviously have to be taken into account, especially since it is a sensitive matter which has already been destroyed by the Constitutional Court in a similar file. However, my questions were quite clear. Is it the government's intention that all these public authorities, this is not about wealthy individuals, all these intercommunals and other local authorities, should be covered by this tax? That's not a legal question, it's more of an opportunity question. I didn't get an answer. I will certainly repeat the question at another time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u31	Madam President, Minister, on 23 July the FPS Finance sent a letter to all companies with a special liquidation reserve for the years 2012 to 2014. The letter is a notification of the collection, with information that they can lodge a reasoned objection within 6 months and request the levy back. Despite the fact that the administration is already in possession of that special declaration, an article provides that the form should be included in the annexes to the normal declarations. In practice, this is not consistent. It does not comply with the only-once principle and is apparently forgotten by some. Can you confirm, Minister, that the inclusion of the already submitted form 275A Special Liquidation in the Annex is sufficient and does not jeopardise the validity of the special liquidation reserve, even if it is not attached to the ordinary declaration for a second time? Should the company send the form to the competent tax control authority?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u32	Mr Leysen, it is a very technical answer, but I will, of course, give it to you. By way of administrative tolerance, the mere failure to add a copy of the special declaration 275A of the special liquidation in the company tax declaration, Article 541, §1, §2, §2/1, eighth paragraph of the WIB92 will not automatically lead to the failure to accept the special liquidation reserve, in so far as the special declaration 275A was submitted to the General Administration of the Collection and Recovery, pursuant to Article 541, §1, §2 and §2/1 of the seventh paragraph of the WIB92. However, the General Administration of Taxation may at any time request the presentation of the copy of the special declaration to the taxable person.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer. I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u34	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, the various competent authorities are working together on the new own resources of the European budget, which is reflected in the "Next Generation EU" recovery plan. It is therefore premature to adopt a position in this regard. The draft European tax on financial transactions has been monitored by Belgium for many years in the Working Party on Enhanced TTF Cooperation. As far as taxable transactions are concerned, it is also premature to take a position, as this matter is still under discussion in the working group. At the beginning of the year, Austria informed that it wished to return to the original proposal for a European Commission directive on a financial transaction tax of 28 September 2011. This text provided for a very broad base, covering all types of financial instruments, as I explained to you a few weeks ago. Finally, the introduction of such a tax has been mentioned in the TTF enhanced cooperation working group and is currently included in the "Next Generation EU" recovery plan. Belgium will participate constructively in the discussions on the proposals contained in the recovery plan. For the moment, only the principle of a contribution based on non-recycled plastic waste is decided. The others involve a digital tax, a carbon adjustment mechanism at borders and a review of the emissions trading system within the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u35	Minister, thank you. As you said, this directive on the tax on financial transactions has been in the cards of the European Commission for more than ten years. It is true that Austria takes a particularly proactive position. It is important that our country also be able to adopt a positive approach that is really moving forward, so that we can make progress on this tax which, as a reminder, would represent only 0.1% of financial speculation at European level and which would enable the European budget to raise its own resources. This would really be necessary in order to go beyond the individual contributions of the Member States. In this way, the Union could finance an ambitious climate transition plan, as well as health care and a real employment-friendly economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u36	Questions Nos 55010687C and 55010725C by Ms Kattrin Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u37	Madam President, Minister, a great deal has already been said about the reduction of the VAT rate for the demolition and reconstruction of private homes. That is part of the coalition agreement, which I was particularly pleased with because it is something that should have been done years ago. As you know, a few weeks ago, I addressed the Minister of SMEs with a view to drawing attention to this issue and to doing so as quickly as possible, given the covid crisis and the precarious situation in the construction sector. The government decided not long after that to achieve the VAT reduction to 6% for demolition and reconstruction as of next year. The construction sector, with which I have very close contacts, is disappointed because there are a number of conditions attached to this VAT reduction. For example, the Minister for Economic Affairs earlier this week said that it would be a temporary measure, that it should be a maximum habitable area of 200 m2 and that it should be the only one and its own. This is a missed opportunity, especially given the green ambitions of this government. Mr Minister, why didn't you opt for a general reduction in the VAT rate? Why are these conditions attached to them? How do you reconcile the restrictive conditions imposed by the government with the general climate objectives it sets out?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u38	Madam President, Mr Van Lommel, I think you are dishonoring the measure we have taken, a very important measure which was adopted today at the second reading at the Council of Ministers and incorporated into the programme law. I am convinced that this measure can provide a real boost to the construction sector and to our climate policy and also boost the purchasing power of our people. Allow me to point out the measure. An extension of the reduced VAT rate for works of demolition and reconstruction to the entire territory can only be done in accordance with the European VAT regulation. It only allows a reduced VAT rate in this area, and I quote: 'housing provided under social policy'. In fact, this limitation is also included in the coalition agreement. It is therefore legally necessary to link this enlargement to a number of criteria of a social nature, even if this means that the measure in relation to other objectives, such as economic revival and climate, is somewhat less effective. For this reason, the cases of application of the tariff benefit scheme are each linked to one or more basic conditions with a social impact. In this case it is a maximum area of 200 square meters of the house, 200 square meters of habitable area, it should also be about the only and mainly own house or the property should be used for long-term rental or rented through a social rental office. Even if this measure is somewhat limited, I am still convinced that this measure can still make an important contribution to accelerating the renewal of the residential heritage segment, replacing obsolete homes with new ones, which meet the most recent energy performance and efficiency standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u39	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It was certainly not my intention to dishonor that measure. I want to encourage the whole sector and the purchasing power of consumers. That is why, a few weeks ago, I even interviewed your colleague on this matter. I also tabled a motion of recommendation at the time. Moreover, I fully endorse the arguments you yourself put forward for the introduction of the measure. I regret that we are linked to the European VAT rule, Minister. I understand, of course, the legal necessity. I can only hope that, if necessary, you will urge your European colleagues and underline the need for the measure as it stands, which is indeed a good start. I only find it a little regrettable, especially in the context of the climate objectives that the government puts first, that there are those restrictive measures. In this context, I refer to Flemish Minister Demir, who has expressed the same concern in recent weeks. It also regrets those restrictive measures. So I can only hope that we will not be left sitting on our hands, Minister, and that you will draw attention to that with your European colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u40	Question No 55010873C by Mr Ortwin Depoortere is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u41	Madam President, Mr Piedboeuf, thank you for this very short question. My answer will be as well. The application by hoteliers of the investment deduction to which you refer is subject to the condition that there is a continuous provision of labour-intensive services, such as the preparation and provision of meals, the maintenance and cleaning of individual rooms, common living and relaxation rooms, the provision and maintenance of sheets, bath towels and blankets. The assessment of the nature of the investments, the intensity and the importance of the continuous provision of services in combination with the provision of separate housing is a question of fact that needs to be considered on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u42	Minister, that's perfect. So it's possible if you prove what you've determined. Thank you for that answer and I wish you a good weekend.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u43	Thank you, Mr. Piedboeuf. It's a happy prospect for all of us, but we still have a little work to do. There's still a bit of work to be done!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u44	Madam President, Minister, while proclaiming your will to achieve the smallest possible FPS, in order, according to a singular logic, to reach record levels in the fight against fraud, you state in De Standaard of this 18 November 2020: "The replacement of the supervisory staff will be ensured." You also say, in Dutch, but I have translated it: "The anti-fraud services will also have more staff." I assume that you restrict the anti-fraud services to those of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (ISI). By the way, they are not the only ones fighting fraud in the FPS Finances. But let's go to the questions. Minister, can I draw the following two conclusions from your statements in De Standaard? The first is: will the number of 3,287 FPS Finance officers assigned to monitoring missions – a number that had been given in response to a written question, by your predecessor De Croo – not decrease in 2021 or in subsequent years? The other conclusion that I would like to draw from your statement is that the ISI's workforce will not continue, but will increase from 2021 onwards. Are these two conclusions correct? How is the number of 3,287 tax control officers distributed between ISI, AGFisc, Heritage Documentation, Customs and Excise? How many agents do ISI have in 2020 and how many do you plan to increase this number for the next four years? Finally, if you do not touch the number of tax auditors, what category of agents are you going to diminish, if I can use the term you yourself used?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u45	Madam President, Mr Van Hees, the number of officers assigned to control missions was 3,827. Subject to the results of the selection procedures, the necessary jobs will be provided for in the personnel plan and the necessary selection procedures will be organized to maintain this number of jobs in 2021. Despite the fact that the uncertainties of the selection procedures do not allow us to guarantee this number at any time, the number of officers exercising controls will not decrease. The distribution of 3,827 screening officers is as follows: 427 officers in the General Administration of the Special Inspectorate of Taxes; 2,466 officers in the General Administration of Taxation; 11 officers in the General Administration of Heritage Documentation; and 823 officers in the General Administration of Customs and Excise. During the debate on my policy statement, I understood your concern about the number of officers assigned to monitoring missions. In order to compensate for any future departure from the pension, the replacement measure 1/1 of the monitoring functions will continue to apply. The digitalisation efforts of the FPS Finances in recent years have led to a certain rationalization of the number of staff assigned to support or mentoring tasks. Several projects are still under way where the improvement of certain tax applications should make it possible to optimise the staff assigned to these tasks. For subsequent years, this type of compensation will be applied to ensure the maintenance of control functions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u46	Minister, thank you. I hear and take note of your answers. You tell us that in 2021, the number of 3,827 controllers will be maintained, and that it will be maintained afterwards, since, if I understood correctly, in 2022, 2023, 2024, there will be a 1/1 replacement. I also asked you about agents who are not controllers. Where are you going to get them? Over ten years alone, the number of agents abolished is almost ten thousand. And I'm not going any further. Each time, we are told that it is rationalisation or digitalization. We can produce more with less staff. I would be curious if I could be given specific examples so that I could come back later. I think the explanation is a little easy. Staff are now in a catastrophic situation. I note that you are committed to maintaining the controllers. I don't think you did it at first, in your political guidance note; I think it's because I'm asking you the question that you're doing it. I also note that your predecessors Van Overtveldt and De Croo made the same commitment and it was not respected. I hope that you will not perpetuate the tradition and that you will respect this commitment to maintain the number of controllers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u47	Minister, every year a Schedule to the Ways and Means Budget is published under the title "Inventory of Exemptions, Reductions and Reductions Affecting Government Revenues", in short the Tax Expenditures Inventory. The purpose of this inventory is to inform Parliament of the budgetary cost of exemptions that fall within the scope of the discussions on a potential tax reform which would aim precisely at reducing them. Paradoxically, I am told that this inventory, which is to be included in the annex to the budget, is not there. Why is this inventory not present? When are you going to provide it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u48	Colleague, the inventory of tax expenditures containing 2018 revenue data for 2019 direct and revenue taxes for indirect taxes to be attached to Budget 2021 will be tabled in the House in the coming weeks. The inventory containing 2017 revenue data for direct and revenue taxes 2018 for indirect taxes could not be published in the Annex to Budget 2020 in the absence of a general presentation. However, you can find this one on the FPS Finance website. I'll send you the link to this site.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u49	Thank you, Minister. It is regrettable that this inventory is not currently included in the annex to the budget, as it is nevertheless a valuable document. You are telling me that this will be the case in the coming weeks, and I hope that the term "next" concerns a fairly small number of weeks. In any case, I hope that this will be the case again this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u50	Minister, the Advance Rulings Service (ADS) of the FPS Finances adopts rules that can have a significant tax impact on taxpayers - individuals or often companies - who apply for this service, as in the case of public finances, especially since these decisions are no longer likely to be challenged by the tax once they have been made. Thus, the independence of the members of the SDA College, its supreme body, deserves to be scrupulously respected, which has not always been verified in the past. I am thinking, for example, of this famous luxury cruise to which former President Véronique Tai had been invited in 2010 by the Order of Accountants. Given the importance of the independence of the members of the College, I am questioned by the participation of two members of the College, Véronique Tai and Matthieu Bataille, as speakers in a series of four private seminars organized by Larcier on corporate tax, the first of which will be held on November 27, 2020. The following will take place later in the year 2021. By paying 275 euros a day - there are four - the participants can thus make contacts and create a proximity which, in my opinion, is not in line with the independence desired. The ever-present argument of creating good relations between the population and the FPS Finances is obviously not valid since this is a tariffed relationship that many citizens do not have the means to offer. Will you intervene to prevent the participation of these two members of the SDA College in these private seminars? Are the two members of the college paid for this participation? If so, how high? Do College members lack work at the SDA to spend days giving private seminars?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u51	Mr Van Hees, as you can read in my administration's annual report, in addition to the main tasks, we are also trying to cooperate with stakeholders so that they can focus on those who do not respect the rules of the game. In this context, the intervention of highly qualified technicians from my administration should not be presented in such a negative light. It allows management partners to gain a better understanding of the legal provisions and the interpretation given by the FPS Finances. Such an intervention contributes to the creation of a climate of trust between the FPS Finances, citizens and businesses and leads, in the medium term, to greater compliance with the legislation and to a reduction of the administrative burden for my department. In this sense, training and information activities are useful. So I see no reason to put an end to it. As regards the case submitted, in accordance with the provisions laid down in the ethical framework, prior to the participation in the seminar held on 27 November this year, a participant submitted an application for authorisation of cumulation which was accepted by his hierarchy. The other participant did not accept the offer of participation. The remuneration received is known to my administration but, for obvious reasons, it will not be made public.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u52	Minister, thank you. For you, the reasons you do not want to disclose are obvious. But for me, they are not. I would therefore like you to explain the reason for this. In my view, when a senior FPS finance official participates in private seminars and is paid for that purpose, it is the least that citizens are informed of this amount. In short, in my view, what matters is transparency and not opacity. Obviously, we do not share the same view of things. For the rest, on the very principle of participating in these symposia, I had planned that you would use the ever-present argument invoking the need to create a climate of trust with the population. It is clear that it is only for those who can pay four times 275 euros. In other words, the rest of our fellow citizens would not be entitled to this climate of trust? In short, these are privileges that are granted to those who can afford such seminars. I believe that true discrimination is thus established, by opting for tailor-made measures in favour of individual taxpayers who have certain means, while the "ready-to-tax" prevails for the majority of citizens who experience the greatest difficulty in accessing tax offices when they have an anomalous question to ask. In conclusion, this is an example of double standards, which, above all, creates a conflict of interest situation. Besides, I hope your own firm doesn't count. I will come back to that with another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u53	Minister, during the Corona period, we see that everyone is helping, including the European Commission with its Next Generation Fund and also the European Central Bank with its buy-back programme. There's something special about that. If a Member State wants to make use of that money from the European Commission, the recovery fund money, then conditions are attached to it. We now see that a number of Member States do not want to use this fund and do not want to request loans, because they want to avoid the conditions. They choose to raise money through the more classical way, through the classic bond markets, precisely to avoid the imposed conditions. I am now asking the question, because the ECB has announced that it will continue to step up its programme in December, which would allow us to give an incentive once again to Member States not to impose conditions on money, which would give them blank cheques. That's the first thing. Secondly, the debate on Hungary and Poland is taking place at European level, which may block the financing of the recovery fund. Some people then look at the ECB again to make sense. It could therefore be that the ECB slope is becoming more and more important and that fewer and fewer conditions are created, thereby creating more and more risk for the market. What do you think of that evolution? Is it wise for Member States to try to avoid the conditions? Will you speak to your European colleagues about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u54	Mr Loones, governments have the freedom to choose the most appropriate financial instrument. Avoiding, as you call it, is not necessarily the most appropriate description here either. The additional EU funds can therefore rather be seen as complementary to direct funding through the markets. Such choices are part of the budgetary policy. It is not appropriate or in line with the mandate that the European Monetary Policy is trying to influence those choices. Finally, I do not need to remind you that it is the Governing Council of the ECB, which takes independent decisions on monetary policy. The ultimate objective is to safeguard price stability. The prospects in this area will therefore determine the future course of monetary policy. In addition, ECB President Lagarde also indicated that all options are on the table and that the Pandemic Emergency Purchase Programme as well as the targeted long-term financing for banks in the current crisis have proved their effectiveness.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u55	Mr President, I would like to make two brief points. Firstly, I think that between the lines of your reply I might read a greater sympathy for the lax monetary policy than was the case with your predecessor, Mr De Croo, and indeed with Mr Van Overtveldt. They were somewhat more cautious about it, given the possible side effects. Minister, I may have interpreted the answer a little too widely. After all, you spoke specifically about the current corona context. However, we will undoubtedly continue to have a debate on monetary policy. Secondly, what I remember from your answer is that you want to respect the autonomy of Member States and therefore subsidiarity. This is an important principle in the application of European politics, including by your federal government. It has already been noted that you are in favour of subsidiarity, that Member States should retain policy freedom and that the European Union should not regulate everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u56	Madam President, Minister, next year will be an important year of transition for the calculation of CO2 emissions from passenger cars. After all, the new WLTP method is increasingly being switched to instead of the NEDC method. This is not a purely technical matter because the result is not neutral for the taxpayer. The car sector tells us that if you take the WLTP value, the advantage of all kinds would increase by 2.5 %. On average, this means paying 400 more euros for the same but new model of company car. If both values are indicated on the approval certificate, then according to the tax authorities one may still opt for the more fiscally interesting NEDC value. However, FAQ 41 of the tax administration makes an important reservation, namely that the above-mentioned position applies until, where appropriate, new legal provisions on this matter enter into force. Minister, I have four questions about this. Firstly, at the end of September, the reference period for reference CO2 emissions was closed. What will be the new values for diesel-engined vehicles and vehicles with petrol, LPG or natural gas engines in 2021? Secondly, do you intend to amend the current provisions concerning the calculation of the benefit of all kinds and the deduction as a professional cost of commercial vehicles for 2021? Thirdly, if you do not, can I assume that next year the NEDC value may be used even further by the taxpayer? Finally, do you intend to adjust the standards for cars for which only a WLTP value is indicated on the approval certificate so that this higher value does not lead to a higher tax burden for employees, managers, companies and self-employed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u57	Madam President, Mr Donné, my administration has not yet received the average CO2 emissions for newly registered cars from the FoD Mobility and cannot therefore calculate the reference CO2 emissions for 2021. In the area of mobility, the government will take measures to encourage the use of environmentally friendly means of transport. The timing of this will, of course, depend on a discussion within the government. I can confirm, however, that the current provisions will continue to apply until, where appropriate, new legislation enters into force.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u58	Thank you, Minister, for that very brief answer. Reference CO2 emissions cannot yet be reported, but each year the new values will be published at the beginning of December. Normally, you should have that information by now. This shouldn't take too long. Taxpayers also need legal certainty and predictability. I therefore hope that measures taken by the government regarding the reference values and the further reimbursement of the tax to which you refer will be followed very closely and communicated in good time. Among other things, in the indexation of certain tax reductions, you intervene in the current year and in the expenditure already incurred by taxpayers who are now faced with new tax legislation which increases their taxes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u59	Mr Minister, this question has been put on the same level of concern as my conversation just now about the advance payments, in particular that corona creates uncertainty for the companies in our country. A measure was adopted in April and amended in July. That was an interesting measure. It was intended that companies could freeze their loans for a certain period of time, but could still obtain additional loans in a simple way, so that our economy would not stop. In this sense, a guarantee scheme has been developed with the banks, which, however, will expire on 31 December 2020. Minister, I think that a lot of companies at first thought that they should not use this measure and have therefore postponed that decision. However, as the economy continues to sputter and the first quarter of next year will not be so positive for many companies, they are now considering postponing a number of current loans and applying for additional necessary measures. Many companies in many sectors contact us with this question and indicate that they will need it. Is the government considering whether these two measures could be extended until next year? Do you acknowledge that there is such a need? If you consider this, what conditions will it be allowed to do so? Is this already being discussed with the financial sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u60	Madam President, Minister, I have two questions for you on the question of the carry-over of appropriations. We naturally know and even measure every day, through a number of dramas that we see on the ground, how the crisis of the VOCID-19 affects our country's economy, in general, and the lives of a number of independents, liberal professions and SMEs, in particular I had the chance in the past to participate in the effort of the previous government with Alexander De Croo and to work on the banking agreement with the Belgian Federation of the Financial Sector (Febelfin), which allowed a number of credit carryovers from 1 April 2020. Then, with Febelfin, agreements were reached to extend the carry-overs until the end of the year. This is an initiative that can only be emphasized. It was not only necessary but essential. There is, however, a flat in this case, since the possibility of extension concerns persons who have already benefited from a postponement, provided that they are still in the conditions of grant and that the request for extension was made between 1 and 20 September. Today, a number of self-employed people are no longer in the criteria. This poses problems on the ground. There is more refusal on the part of a number of banks (not all) to carry over a number of credits. However, closure measures have been taken which extend until at least 13 December, and the commercial activity of these independents is at a standstill. They were not given the opportunity to continue to benefit from the deferral effect. They had the postponement, they don't have it anymore. He didn't ask for it because there was a takeover. Then we close and there, they no longer have the carry-over and while they are closed, they are in a situation in which they must again honour these credits. The question I ask you is simple and concrete. Will you soon be able to adapt the charter in this area to allow the self-employed who are now asking for a postponement not to be repressed, as is the case? This is the subject of the first question that I wanted to address to you, Minister. The other subject is an extension of the first question. What is your status in the ongoing discussions on the moratorium on appropriations and its extension for next year? I know you're currently in discussion with Febelfin. There is always a question of perspective for self-employed and SMEs. I know that you are working hard on it, but it is for them to know exactly what the possibilities of these credits will be from January onwards. Beyond the good news that you are hoping for in the work you are doing, they must be able to know, for the first half of next year, whether they will have to honour their credits or whether they will still have a possibility of postponement. On the other hand, what about the criteria that dictated conduct to banks and that were not particularly flexible, you will recognise that? Beyond the announcement of this postponement for the first half of next year, on which you would like to inform us in terms of progress in your work in this area, it is also a matter of hope that there will not be a hardening of the criteria compared to the first system that had been put in place with Febelfin through this agreement and this charter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u61	Thank you for your questions, Mr Van Lommel and Mr Ducarme. Indeed, in March 2020, during the first corona wave, a banking plan was drawn up to support lending to individuals and businesses. The plan consisted of two parts. A first part concerned a moratorium on corporate credit and mortgage credit granted by the financial institutions until 30 September 2020. In addition, there was also the activation of a guarantee scheme, of a total of 50 billion, by the federal government. We have divided it into a first and a second guarantee scheme. In view of the second corona wave, the core cabinet recently decided to extend the guarantee scheme for SMEs until 30 June 2021. As regards the extension of the moratorium on company credits, there is further consultation with Febelfin. I am aware of the demand of many companies and self-employed people to extend the existing moratorium. With regard to the granting of the guarantee scheme for SMEs, we are bound by the deadlines for the so-called Temporary Framework of the European Commission, within which Member States can take aid measures that are not considered to be State aid. That European framework was provisionally extended until 30 June 2021, which is why we extended the guarantee scheme until then. With regard to the extension of the moratorium, the European Banking Authority has not yet taken a final decision to extend its relaxation of the prudential rules for credit and the delay in payment under COVID-19. The existing EBA Guidelines applied until 30 September 2020 and allowed credits covered by the moratorium to be considered by the Belgian regulator as non-problem credits. EBA's decision is expected at the end of November or early December. Since we still have to wait for the decision of the European banking authority and therefore I have no knowledge of its content, I am not currently in a position to comment on the exact timing or the modalities for a possible extension of the moratorium. In response to Mr Ducrame's other specific questions, I can say that the European framework does not currently allow the moratorium to apply to requests for deferral of payments submitted after 30 September 2020. However, companies can of course always contact their bank to discuss on a case-by-case basis the possibility of a payment deferral. I count on the sense of responsibility of our banks to best play their social role in our economic system, especially in the light of the current crisis of VOCID-19. Finally, with regard to leasing, I can tell you that Kern has decided that there will also be consultation on the subject. However, as the finance lease falls within its competence, it will be my colleague in charge of the Economy who will consult with the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u62	Minister, I am sure your answer is positive. You say that the guarantee scheme will be extended until 30 June next year anyway. That is a good perspective that we can give our entrepreneurs. With regard to the postponement of the current appropriations, I understand, of course, that you must wait for the European banking authorities to get a further breakthrough. I have already said to the Minister for Economic Affairs in the past week that, when the pandemic continues to decrease, the worst economic shock wave will come soon. After all, many bankruptcies hang like a dark cloud over our country. The real economic stress test will then have to come. I really hope that we can do what is necessary there, that we can give our companies financial oxygen, so that they can have the necessary prospects for a future and make the necessary start.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u63	I would point out from the outset that the information on the extension of the guarantee is good news, but it was necessary and essential. Achieving an objective is always a good thing. On the other hand, Minister, I do not hide from you that I am still hungry after hearing two aspects of your answer to the question of carry-overs. First of all, there is the question of the postponement to the next semester. Then comes the question of the possibility for these independents and SMEs to request postponements after 30 September, being out of the criteria in relation to the charter. I believe that, in a period such as the one we are currently experiencing, we must not wait. I want to urge you to go to the European Commission and be demanding, because we need a quick perspective on the question of the postponement of appropriations for the first half of the year. You say that you appeal to the sense of responsibility and solidarity of some banks. I am like you, and I have also been responsible for this. I found that some banks had shown a sense of responsibility, but that was not the case with other banks! So come back and tell me why, in the field, some independents and SMEs who had the opportunity to get a carry-over until 30 October no longer received it from their banks, while they interrupted their activities. For this reason, I would like to ask you to continue your contacts with Febelfin by asking for more flexibility. The IMF has indicated, as you know, that it is essential that banks play the game fully. Some people don't do it anymore – it's reality too. I will encourage you, Minister, to make your voice heard by the European Commission. I know you can do that. As for the banks, you should remind them that, as you say, we expect a sense of responsibility and greater flexibility with regard to several independents – whose difficulties we know well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u64	Minister, both married or legally cohabiting partners should register with the FPS Finance Department in order to be able to file a tax return on non-residents via Tax-on-web. Because it takes a few weeks between applying for a national number and getting a token, it is easier to make a declaration on paper. In particular, these are situations where the partner does not work or does not work in Belgium and therefore does not have a Belgian national number. I am informed that several persons living in the Netherlands have requested a paper declaration form, but have not received it so far. The reporting period runs until 3 December, which means that it will be short-lived to submit the declaration in good time. Moreover, some additional time is lost because the declaration forms are apparently no longer sent to their agent, but to the taxable person himself. Why do persons who have requested a GNI declaration form for natural persons not receive a declaration? When will these forms be sent? In the event that the administration considers that the GNI declaration would have been submitted late, how should the persons concerned prove that they requested a paper form in good time? This is my third and final question, Minister. I hope that three times is a charm and that I can get a concrete answer here, because these are people who have had to report within two weeks and are still in uncertainty. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u65	Thank you, Mr Donné, for your question. Applications for a paper declaration GNI for natural persons shall be registered as of 9 November 2020 in an application. The time limit for sending those declarations shall be three weeks. Since the declarations usually have to be sent abroad, the date of receipt also depends on the processing time by the foreign postal service. The declarations were sent on 21 October 2020 to non-residents with an address in Belgium and on 23 October 2020 to non-residents with a foreign address. For the individual applications registered in the application, a first shipment will take place on 23 November 2020. Citizens shall have a period of one month from the date of dispatch for the submission of their declaration. The citizen may, where appropriate, prove that he has applied for a paper declaration in good time by means of a copy or proof of the written request for a declaration form. The administration also has a history of the requested declaration forms. The declarations submitted after the deadline for submission, but for which an application was made before 3 September 2020, will of course not be considered late.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u66	Thank you, Minister, for ending in beauty with a full answer this time. I therefore have no further comments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-11-20-55-commissie-ic305x.u67	That's excellent. We've done a good job. Have a nice weekend. Get home.
