ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u2	Madam President, we have spent many hours here. The venom is in the tail. It's sometimes said. We have been able to take note today of the fact, on which I had an exchange of views with Minister Vandenbroucke, that the Secretary of State for the Budget has, at first sight, made an interesting communication on the purchase of vaccines by our country. That communication was also immediately removed. The question arises as to whether there has been an infringement of confidentiality. Mr Vandenbroucke's reply reinforces that impression. He referred to the plowings at European level and stated that he would not share that information himself. I quote from a letter from the Dutch Chamber of the Minister of Health, dated 27 October 2020, in response to a question from MP van Gerven van de SP, the Socialist Party. Question 3, "Can you explain the European Commission's obligations on the basis of this confidentiality?' on the vaccine deals, Minister de Jonge, the Dutch colleague of Minister Vandenbroucke, replied: "The obligation of confidentiality is based on a confidentiality clause in the contract between the European Commission and the producers concerned. The Dutch representatives, like the representatives of the other participating countries, have also committed themselves to the obligation of professional secrecy by means of a non-disclosure declaration." In the meantime, we have already seen some reactions in the media, I have understood from Test Purchase, which denies the lack of transparency in the purchase of corona vaccines. The Secretary of State just said in a message on Belga that she wanted to offer transparency, which is a very nice and noble ambition. As regards the allocation of funds for, for example, the purchase of the vaccine, it may have created some confusion over the past few weeks, which of course is to be avoided for such an important matter. Mrs De Bleeker says in that Belga message that she was a little too transparent in the light of European rules. That's why she removed the tweet pretty quickly. The problem with tweets is, of course, that they cannot be removed. They always hang out somewhere in the digital air and can be picked out of it all the time. That means it's not classified information anymore, it's public information. It is of the utmost importance for such very sensitive matters that we could hear the Secretary of State on them. On the basis of Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, I therefore request the presence of the Secretary of State, so that we can have her text and explain this interesting matter. I'll read out the motion I'll file. "In view of the fact that today the Chamber has been informed that the Secretary of State for the Budget has released important communications about the purchase of vaccines by our country, but which has immediately removed them, the question arises whether it has infringed a confidentiality obligation concerning the procurement of COOVID-19 vaccines. That is why we wish to hear her on this matter and to that end the member of the government must be brought immediately to justice." Madam President, I would ask you to take the appropriate measures in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The Chamber must rule on the motion. I cannot imagine that a Member of Parliament would oppose the transparency that can be offered here about the proper conduct of the case in such an interesting case. That's why I'm offering you this claim of presence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u3	Monsieur De Roover, j'ai bien reçu votre demande. Rule 50 of the Rules states that the House may require the presence of a member of the Government on the proposal of a member in writing. The member of the government is heard when he or she so requests. We must therefore take a decision on your proposal. The easiest, given the circumstances, is to pronounce ourselves by sitting and rising, via the group leaders. I note that not all group leaders are yet in the room. I therefore propose to wait until all the group leaders are present to take a position on your request, and to start the agenda in the meantime. Does that suit you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u4	Madam President, I can imagine that after the long debate we have had, some group leaders have been wise enough to look for a cot. I would not want them to be disturbed in their blissful rest, and I assume that the groups have made arrangements for someone else to take over their duties.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u5	Perhaps we could make contact to find the group leader or, at the very least, a replacement so that we can vote within a reasonable time, within half an hour or an hour, depending on the first texts that we could examine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u6	Madam President, Mr Loones informs me that Secretary of State De Bleeker may also wish to come to the Chamber on your question. It may be prepared to give a text and explanation without having to follow the procedure laid down in Article 50. It is, of course, fully entitled, when it is called upon here, to give that request voluntarily, which would also be in her interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u7	Let us make the contacts and come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u8	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1678/1) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1678/1) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u9	Madam President, I would like to present an oral report. In fact, we have spoken for six hours in committee with the CREG. The committee members deserve that respect. Ladies and gentlemen, at its meeting on 1 December 2020, the Energy Commission was able to take an extensive look at the CREG's budget and general policy paper. Those documents were proposed by the Administrative Director and Acting Chairman of the Management Committee, assisted by the Director for the Technical Functioning of the Markets and the Director for the Control of Prices and Accounts. The Executive Board members explained in detail the new tasks for the CREG, the tasks related to the CRM, as well as the main challenges for the coming period, including the various aspects of the energy transition, the transposition into Belgian legislation of the Clean Energy Package, the energy poverty component in the Belgian National Energy and Climate Plan and the study work on the development of the second offshore zone. The members of the Executive Board also explained specific cost items in the budget. It discussed in detail the EUR 910,000 additional resources allocated by the CREG to carry out its tasks in a high quality manner and to be able to properly manage its tasks under the CRM. Mr Wollants then gave some comments on behalf of the N-VA and asked for some clarification on the following issues: the energy standard, the tasks of the CREG in the nuclear sector, cooperation with the BIPT, participation in the French-speaking network of energy regulators, the 'Bidding zone review', the strategic reserve and the CREG studies on price evolutions. Mr Cogolati stressed the important role of the CREG in the issue of social justice in the energy transition and in its monitoring of prices and wholesale markets, which is crucial for the protection of consumers and vulnerable persons. Mr Cogolati also asked for more clarification on the energy standard mechanism, the simplification of energy bills and the potential impact of the EUR 910,000 budget increase on consumers. Mr Ben Accour also asked for more detailed explanations of the additional expenditure relating to the tasks of the CREG under the CRM and stressed the continuing lack of information on the CREG Scan among the general public. More specifically, Mr Ben Accour stressed the importance of accessibility and awareness of the scan, while also drawing attention to the problem of the digital divide. With regard to the regulated activities, he specified the projects planned by the Network Manager and asked the CREG to closely monitor cost control and public support for such infrastructure works. He also asked for an update on the CRM dossier and the need for a strategic reserve for next winter. The Flemish Interest Group stressed the importance of periodic reporting by the CRM follow-up committee, which is part of the CREG, and also asked for a state of play on the role of the CREG in the preparation of the first auction. The Flemish Interest Group also looked at the CREG study on compensation for CRM costs, the European methodology for security of supply, the energy standard, the calculation of nuclear interest rates, the dormant contracts and the tender for the Princess Elisabeth offshore zone. On behalf of the MR Group, Mr Bombled asked for more information on some of the budget lines and the operation of the CREG Scan instrument. He also wanted to know more about the cooperation with regional regulators on price comparison, the CREG prize for master theses, the state of green gas in the transport network and the role of the CREG in the calculation of nuclear interest rates. On behalf of the CD&V Group, Mr Dierick addressed in particular a number of budget items relating to the CRM, including fees for legal disputes and the planned expenditure on external consultancy. She also referred to the impact on the federal contribution, which is paid by families and companies, and asked for more explanation of the energy standard. It also suggested the possibility of a form of cooperation agreement within the FORBEG and more cooperation between regulators around the current different tools for consumers. On behalf of the PVDA, Mr Warmoes stressed the essential role of the CREG as an independent watchdog. Among other things, he zoomed in on the termination of the CREG study on the VOLL, the cost of power cuts as an important parameter for the cost-effectiveness of the CRM and on the state of play of the CRM. Mr Warmoes then stressed the need for an adjustment of the indexation mechanism for the Gas and Electricity Fund, because indexation alone was not sufficient to cover the needs of the funds available in the Fund. He also referred to the comparative study on electricity and gas prices in our neighbouring countries and considered the possibility of reviewing the degressivity of the energy price for large consumers. Commission President Patrick Dewael wanted more clarity on the proposed budget increase due to the CRM and stated that the Committee would like to maintain good cooperation with the CREG. He invited the regulator to appeal to the committee whenever he considered it appropriate. Mr Dewael also raised a number of issues, namely the impact of the corona crisis, the Green Deal, cooperation with foreign regulators and cooperation with regional regulators on instruments such as the CREG Scan. Mr Verduyckt raised questions on behalf of the sp.a on the increase in the CREG's budget for CRM work and gave an update on his bill on dormant energy contracts. The members of the Executive Board of the CREG then gave a comprehensive explanation of all the themes mentioned. Once again, very detailed and apparently convincingly addressed the budget increase and the impact on the federal contribution. The president finally put the CREG budget to the vote, which was unanimously approved by the members of the committee. All groups stressed the importance of an autonomous and well-functioning regulator. So much for my report. Madam President, I would like to add something on behalf of my group. You may wonder why I read this, but not a month goes by without articles appearing in the press in which the CREG comes out very strongly. I believe that the CREG deserves this attention in Parliament too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u10	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u11	The vote on the budget will take place at a later date. The vote on the budget will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u12	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, since this is an oral report, I cannot refer to a written report. The Defence Commission met this Wednesday to discuss the bill setting the army's contingent for the year 2021. After a full presentation by the Minister also looking back on many of the elements already mentioned in the multi-phase discussion of the policy note, she outlined this project, which is ultimately a continuation of the policy note and which is also fully part of the budget discussion. Some members noted that the project was very late in the year. This has been attributed to the particular circumstances of the composition of government and the establishment of structures. But there was a commitment on the part of the minister that next year we should ensure that this project is discussed earlier than it was in this special year. Many questions were asked by virtually all members of the Commission, including the assessment of the number of retirements. To this end, a time line, a age pyramid will be provided to the members of the commission. Secondly, the use of subcontracting was discussed. It was then recalled the terms of the government declaration and the government agreement, which provide for an assessment – which is under way – in order to decide and examine for the future the need to use this subcontracting, in what proportion and for what period. With regard to recruitment, which is necessarily to come, management is planned to ensure that recruitment is carried out. It was also mentioned that the search for synergies with other departments was a possibility and sometimes a priority. The question of the reservation was also addressed. The Minister pointed out that current aid to the Nation and civil society is also elements that have already allowed some people to come forward to join the reserve. The Minister also reiterated her commitment to remotivating the military in a number of actions and to have a special interest in families. The basis of this policy is a resolution which has been widely discussed by this House and in committee. Defence personnel will have to adhere to this priority. There was also talk about the development of cybercomponents, and the development of cybersecurity within departments, but it's still a little early. Some members also stressed the diversity and feminization of recruitment, while stressing the primacy to be accorded to the qualification of staff to be recruited. All the documents and elements relating to this discussion will come back to committee meetings. These, many, are programmed to appreciate and deepen all the elements put on the table. Finally, this is not the first time that she has said so, but the minister has reiterated her willingness for transparency and ongoing dialogue with Parliament, as well as her availability. Before voting on the articles and on the whole project – a vote unanimously obtained less one abstention, both on the articles and on the whole – all the members of the committee wished the entire military community the best for the year 2021, in its action in Belgium and in external operations, as well as for the military and their families. It was also the tone of our entire meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u14	Madam President, Mr Flahaut, Minister, thank you very much for the explanatory statement and for the oral report. However, I have a number of comments to make on this bill. The military quota must be fixed each year and the Constitution thus determines. It is important that this commitment can also be discussed in depth in Parliament. The first is the general question that exists in several political groups to try to speed up the presentation of the draft in 2021. I know that a new government has been set up and that everything is very hectic. There is also inexperience and a new story. Everything has yet to be done. So I understand that the draft has now been submitted very late. Last Friday, the draft was approved by the Council of Ministers. On Wednesday morning, 16 December 2020, it was discussed in committee and now Thursday evening, 17 December 2020, it is already before the vote in plenary. I do not know whether Parliament has ever set such an army quota so quickly. We cleared it at 40 hours. It would therefore be a good thing that the draft fixing of the military quota in 2021 should be submitted to Parliament earlier so that we can do our work properly as Members of Parliament and conduct the debate without always having to be dealt with by urgent procedure. That wouldn't be more than normal. Apart from the procedure, I have a number of substantive comments. The current government claims to be committed to human resources policy on an enormous and priority basis. A motion for a resolution by the PS Group on the Human Resource Approach of Defence in the coming years was almost universally adopted. On that resolution, the N-VA noted that there were very good and positive points in it. The translation of that resolution into the coalition agreement and into Mrs Dedonder's policy statement is there and it is clear what is good in itself. For the first time, we are going below the 25,000 active military line, which is symbolic in itself. However, the intention is to organise a large number of recruitments. I will not repeat my point on this, but I will continue to have my reservations about the choices made by the government not to organise the physical selection tests or at least temporarily to put them on hold. It is really a matter of principle that physical fitness tests remain organised. That still happens in the fire department; that still happens in certain situations with the Defense Department. In that sense, it is a wrong signal. Madam Minister, I hope that an alternative can be worked out as soon as possible, which is corona-safe. After all, allow me to be clear. No one, not even our group, is arguing for corona insecure situations within the Defense Department. Let's get that straight. That, of course, is not what we aim to do. We do want these physical tests to take place in a corona-safe way. As far as recruitment is concerned, I can only say that we are looking forward to it. We will monitor this closely together with the colleagues of the National Defence Committee and we hope that a lot of young new recruits will be found for Defence. I think this is crucial. After all, there will be a period in which public employment will be more interesting in any case because of the economic crisis and youth unemployment. There's a good chance that Selor's gonna be even busier than ever before. We have had this Swedish government in high-class economics, and it was very difficult to find people at some point. There weren't enough recruits who wanted to work for the government. I believe that the economic conditions, which have been significantly changed by corona, will make public employment more popular. We wish you every success with this and the N-VA Group wishes all soldiers in service and all new recruits good luck before 2021, both here and in foreign theatres. My final point concerns the outsourcing of activities to private partners. I do not think it is necessary to have major ideological debates on outsourcing within the Defense Department. Our party has said we can do it for us. Mr Loones and Mr Vandeput have always stressed that some tasks within Defence are not core tasks and can therefore be outsourced so that more attention can be paid to the core tasks. It is not yet entirely clear whether that course is being changed or not. You would first like to make an assessment, Madam Minister, and point out that if many new soldiers are added, it will be possible to re-examine whether some of these tasks are better carried out by military personnel. At least that's how I understood you. N-VA will monitor this very closely in the years to come because we are convinced that it is up to the Defence Department to focus on its core tasks. We are already small enough and strong enough shrunk and I think that non-essential tasks are better outsourced to the private sector so that there are more hands, brains and manpower left for the essential tasks of Defence, and there are more than enough of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u15	Madam President, I just wanted to make it clear that, in my report, I had failed to stress the great availability of the chairman of the Defence Committee, who is not present tonight – it is easier to talk about someone in his absence – but also the flexibility of this committee. Indeed, it demonstrates a true sense of initiative in order to shed maximum light, with the assistance of the Minister and the Maijor State, on the life of this department. The priority of discussion is staff. The basis was a motion for a resolution drawn up in Parliament. In my view, this initiative gives our assembly a new tone in military matters – which was not always the case. With regard to the reservations expressed about recruitment, it was important to clarify what had been said yesterday, but without falling into the trap of constantly repeating all the discussions. In fact, it is a limited and exceptional period that is covered by this provision. I think we can quickly return to normality. In order to succeed in recruitment, there is no secret: we must restore the attractive character of military occupations. As far as outsourcing is concerned, I have heard a lot of criticism of my political formation. Those who know me know that I'm a really pragmatic person. This Government statement contains a sentence that refers to updating and evaluation, specifically to ensure that what may or may not be the subject of outsourcing for a limited period of time. This seems to me to be in line with the philosophy of the government declaration. On this basis, we can certainly move forward and progress. Parliament, thanks in particular to our committee, will pay attention to this. For our part, we have no doubt about the Minister's willingness to fully involve Parliament in this task, so as to achieve success in the reform presented to us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, although I have already responded on several occasions, it is with pleasure that I will recall what is one of our main priorities under this Parliament: the staff. If we are there today, it is because Defence has clearly experienced – for many years – a disinvestment in this area and that staff have often found themselves in a role of fiscal adjustment variable. Now it's over! In the past, commitments have been made for investment in capacity and equipment. As they were certainly to be taken, we will honor them. However, rebalancing is necessary. And as I said yesterday, with a percentage of investment and precise figures on the means we will devote to staff, we will give it this priority, because it deserves it. It is indeed a challenge to recruit 10,000 people, in this case 2,500 by 2021, but this challenge is crucial. I can't say that in recent years, when I look at the paintings, there has been the same ambition. For example, in previous years 1,400 commitments, 700 commitments have been made. Our goal is 2,500 recruits. There is a real will to recruit, I confirm it again. As far as outsourcing is concerned, there will indeed be an evaluation. We'll get back to it. But I also think that, in some areas, there is a strong demand for the military to take over. Of course, at the base, the outsourcing had to be put in place, because the staff was missing. But we will come back, as we do in committee every time, without any problem. As regards the late arrival of this law, as I understand it, let us remember that we have spent many hours in committee: four committee meetings, certainly more than twelve hours of debate on the general policy note! In my mind, therefore, it was logical to come with this quota law after we were able to have these debates on the general policy note and we were able to adopt it in committee. So that's what I did. I appreciate the discussions that are conducted on the basis of real and proven facts and not on the basis of alternative facts. However, on 5 December 2019, the urgency was required for a vote on the quota law, as well as on 29 November 2018 and 7 December 2017. I didn't make it up. The documents are downloadable on the House's website, but of course, if we can do so well before, I will be happy to do so as I have promised. I thank you and wish you all, despite the circumstances, good holidays of the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u17	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. I take note of your promise or commitment to submit the draft law establishing the military quota earlier in the future. You say that the draft law in question has also been adopted as a matter of urgency over the last three years, but no urgency has even been requested this year. When the urgency requests were dealt with in plenary last Thursday, I sent a message to Peter De Roover, our group leader, asking whether there is any urgency for the military quota. There was no urgency because it had not even been approved by the government, because that only happened on Friday. As Mr Flahaut says, thanks to the goodwill of Peter Buysrogge, chairman of the Defence Committee, the draft law establishing the military quota is before us today, otherwise we would have had to meet next week. So no urgency has even been asked in the Chamber. The requests for urgency in previous years were made at the end of November or early December, while we are now just before the end of the parliamentary work of the calendar year 2020. Apart from that, I take note of your commitment and we will follow it up. I understand that the start of a new ministerial position can be very hectic. No problem. Next year we will see when you submit your draft law establishing the military quota. In my turn, I am addressing all our military, both here and in surgery. In their own country, military personnel are working on the fight against covid in our homes and hospitals and in so many other places. Abroad, our military are active in Mali and Afghanistan, over Syria and Iraq with our F-16s. All of our people in the Defense Department, I wish you a Merry Christmas and a good year's end. In view of the current circumstances, that is not obvious, but on behalf of the N-VA, I believe that those Christmas wishes are appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u18	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u19	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1690/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1690/1) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u20	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u21	Mr De Roover, we have contacted Mrs De Bleeker, who agrees to join us. She's on her way. As soon as she arrives, we will organize our work. A second request comes from Mr Vandenbroucke, who has been attending our work since last night, so to speak. Il nous prie de commencer la discussion du texte n° 1433, the bill on association work. If you agree, we could start with this proposal, so as to free the minister who still has work to do for tomorrow's events. (Sentence)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u22	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Tania De Jonge, Egbert Lachaert, Florence Reuter, Kattrin Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u23	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Jean-Marc Delizée was present in the assembly, but as I do not see, I imagine he will refer to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u24	Madam President, Mr Delizée is here and intends to read the report. As we have just upset the program, can we give ourselves a few minutes, time to let it happen? You don't have a problem with that? We're in the process of contacting him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u25	Madam President, that would be good because my colleague is on his way here. In this way, he can be in plenary session in good time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in this case it is an oral report. I cannot therefore refer to a written report. I must give a summary of our work in committee. Initially, the law of 18 July 2018 on economic recovery and the strengthening of social cohesion created three new types of specific statutes, including the voluntary work referred to here. At the time, these statutes were the subject of intense debate in and outside Parliament. There was subsequently an appeal against voluntary work, which was brought by two organisations representing workers and employers. The Constitutional Court delivered its judgment on 23 April 2020, judgment No. 53/2020, by which it annulled the associative part of the law we have just mentioned, while maintaining its effects until 31 December 2020. In so doing, the Court grants the legislator a period of time, a transitional period, to adopt, where appropriate, a new arrangement replacing the previous one. This is the meaning of the draft law on voluntary work, which was tabled on 8 July last by our colleague Mrs De Jonge et al., document No. 1433, and presented in our committee by its first author on 14 July this year. On 29 September, our Social Affairs Committee devoted a full day to hearings on this issue. The committee heard representatives of trade unions, employers, the non-commercial sector, the Fédération du secteur des organisations sociologiques, the Conseil supérieur des volontaires and the Platform francophone du volonté, the Vlaamse sportfederatie and the Association interfédérale du sport francophone, and the Instituut voor Sportbeheer en Recreatiebeleid. There is also the Flemish Institute for Sport Management and Recreation Policy. Mrs De Jonge has also tabled 32 amendments which have been worked out in consultation with the government. They also follow the opinions received by the committee and the hearings held on 29 September. Those amendments aim to develop a temporary solution specifically for the sport sector which would apply until 31 December 2021. The amendments envisaged by the authors concern the scope of the mechanism limited to the sports sector, the abolition of the obligation of a 4/5th time contract to provide in the context of associative work. This concerns the financial ceiling, the monthly duration of 50 hours per month. The worker will be entitled to a break and must have one day off per week. The number of associative contracts with the same organisation is limited in order to encourage longer-term contracts. If the amounts are exceeded, there is a presumption of an employment contract. An associative worker is entitled to a notice period or to a notice allowance. The organisation is liable for a solidarity contribution of 10% of the compensation granted to the non-profit-making worker. Similarly, a tax contribution of 10 per cent is foreseen. There's a minimum allowance. There is a limitation of the cumulations between voluntary work and voluntary work within the same organisation. Finally, a scheme is provided for insurance which covers the associative worker. The debate in the Committee on Social Affairs took place on 11 and 14 December and covered all these issues. Of course, I am not going to go back to everyone's speeches, otherwise it would actually be very long. This is a synthesis. In general, regardless of the opinions of the Members who spoke, I believe that the general will of the Members was to provide a provisional solution before 1 January next to the players concerned in the sports sector, in order to ensure a certain continuity of the sports activities already sufficiently affected by the health crisis and the measures taken in this context. A number of colleagues, if not all, stressed the provisional nature of the proposed solution and called on the government to organize quickly the necessary consultations in order to propose a definitive solution as soon as possible. I am not going to resume all the interventions. I would like to comment on a question from Mrs Lanjri. It is in favour of extending the work of association to housewives, wage-earners and people with disabilities. In his reply, Minister Vandenbroucke pointed out that the government wanted to find a temporary solution for association work in the sports sector. The Minister replied to Mr Anseeeuw that the tax rate of 10% is necessary to prevent a new annulment by the Constitutional Court. The Court requires a minimum levy and the Minister considers that a 10% levy is relatively advantageous and feasible for associations. The amendments tabled by Mrs De Jonge, Mrs Willaert, Mr Anseew and Mrs Fonck were then discussed on a point-by-point basis. The bill as amended was finally adopted by thirteen votes in favour, one against and three abstentions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the same line we followed in Monday's committee discussion, we oppose the imposition of double taxation of 10% on our sports associations. We do not agree at all with that for various reasons. No one, not even the Constitutional Court, has applied for that tax. They make it appear that this is true. That's not true, of course. It is based on an old text which has been amended in detail. That's not without importance. What's going on here? The Constitutional Court has been critical of those activities that can compete with regular work. Of this, the Constitutional Court says that a level playing field should be created as far as possible. There's something to be said for that, of course. How can that be solved? For the associations we are talking about, there is no problem. These are just those activities that are barely or not in competition with the regular economic fabric. So that tax is not really necessary. These are activities that do not compete with regular work. There can be no pursuit of a level playing field because it is simply a different playing field. There is therefore no reason to impose this tax on these associations. Of course, it is also true that all the associations in this country, not least the sports associations, are finding it increasingly difficult to bind themselves and engage themselves in youth sports, for example. If the government then thinks to gas them on a double load of two times 10 %, then our lump breaks a bit. We would better support these associations instead of harassing them with double taxation. So it surprises us very much that they arrive with this. What really happened? The discussion in committee was particularly enlightening. The criticism of the Constitutional Court was not about these activities. That was obvious. The double taxation that the proposers of this proposal, Open Vld and MR, will receive in the name of the purple-green majority, is simply the result of a purely political compromise. In the meantime, it is a public secret that there are quite a few parties within purple-green, not to mention the PS, which are having a particularly difficult time with this kind of arrangement. That party has said so in so many words, which is its right. Each party has its own ideology. It is good that the PS is particularly clear about this. From the PS it was said that she was against it and that the only reason she approved it is because it's only for one year. The PS proposed to agree to a scheme for up to one year, but does not want a definitive solution on the same basis as this temporary solution. In other words, it can indeed be expected that it is two times 10 % a harbinger of much more. The future doesn't look so bright for our associations. We have then reached 20% by hand, such as on a cattle market or cheese market, where there is bid and belief. Landing at 20 %. One of the best proofs that this two times 10 % is actually a flat political compromise is that for the activities of the platform economy, Uber and so on, only 10% should be paid once, whereas those are activities that are very closely linked to and related to the economic fabric, to the regular economy. If you know that, it is all the more incomprehensible that associations far beyond the mainstream economy are taxed twice as much as the platform economy, which is actually part of our regular economy. So this is a very bad thing for our associations, because they have actually been the victims of a flat political compromise, in which Open Vld, as the author of the bill, has made a great deal of concessions on the left-hand side of purple-green, especially to the socialists. Anyway, that's on them. However, this is not the solution that we are in favour of. This is not what we want. We certainly do not want the associations to be subject to double taxation where this is not really necessary, especially from a legal point of view. They want to give the impression that this is the case, but nothing is less true. The fact that you have indeed done a cow business on the head of the associations was confirmed by the Minister in all his honesty in the committee. He spoke of "a balance that has been achieved within the majority." I don't think that's gonna take much explaining. I have already said that the PS left no doubt about it. To express it euphemistically, she is a very cool lover of this arrangement and only approved it because it is for a maximum of one year. I have understood in recent days that the proposers have been hiding themselves like a devil in a holy water tank, but the fact is that here is being cut into the union life in our country, while the work done by these associations is invaluable. They bring people together, often on a voluntary basis. Then they will receive a tax that the Constitutional Court has not asked for at all, colleagues. The Constitutional Court has not asked at all to split two times 10% into the stomach of those associations. Anyone who claims otherwise will turn a wheel in front of their eyes. So what did we do on Monday in committee? We have tabled amendments to remove these two taxes, which are legally perfectly justified. The Constitutional Court has also said this in so many words: when it comes to activities that have a social added value, which is indeed the case here and can be argued, and activities that do not overlap with the regular economy, there is no need for such a tax, because there can be no level playing field. They are different playing fields that are being worked on. We have therefore tabled amendments to remove these taxes, but they were not taken into account by the majority. Of course, I understand that: hand-clap was already over and twice 10 % was acquired by the PS and other cool lovers of this arrangement. We have also tabled another amendment to include amateur arts in this scheme, because there are also a lot of valuable activities that this government does not even have a settlement for. As of January 1st, there are only two possibilities for them, as it stands now: either illegality, or paying the full pot, which is much more than two times 10 %. We have tabled those amendments and they were voted off, but we have retabled them in plenary today. We think this is too important and we do not want to abandon our associations, nor burden them with a double load of 10% where this is not necessary at all. You can get back together and change your mind. It would be a good thing for our associations that you do this. That is, of course, the choice that must be made today: do you choose new taxes or do you effectively choose our associations? Open VLD, the author of this proposal, apparently opts for new taxes, unless we are soon surprised by a change of course, which would have been very welcome. For example, I do not understand how CD&V can live with this, because this is cutting our social fabric, in our associations, in civil society. This is really incomprehensible, but we want to correct this and give a second chance to go into it. Our voting behaviour will be very clear. If our amendments are adopted, we will vote wholeheartedly in favour of this regulation. It is important that we have a proper regulation, and this is a good one, provided that our amendments are approved. If they are not approved, we will abstain as in committee. Why remember us and not vote against? I said earlier that if we vote against the regulation and we do not have it, it will be much worse. In other words, we actually choose the least evil of the two. We do not want our associations to be taxed, which is why we are tabling amendments for the second time today to remove them. We are opposed to a new tax regime, so we hope that you will change course. It is also necessary to regulate the amateur arts sector, our local choirs and theatre associations. After all, we should not burden them with much heavier taxes than those two times 10%. We hope that you will see this case done again and realise that it would be awesome to double the burden on our associations as much as the platform economy. Indeed, it is justified that a tax is levied on the platform economy as it runs counter to the regular economy. On the other hand, there is no legal need for associations. It is therefore incomprehensible that we should do this to our associations, to our social fabric and to our enlargement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u28	Madam President, this is no secret to anyone, but the Ecolo Group was initially not in favour of this bill. He was even opposed to the original law, which would ultimately be overturned by the Constitutional Court. What is cancelled, often, it needs to be repaired differently with new parts and new tracks. That is what we have tried to do today: to find solutions. For that is what this new coalition is constantly trying to do: find solutions and respect balances in our society and state. It's true, it's complicated, but we've listened to the sector, measured the stakes and defined limits. The first is that, in all cases, there was a need for a solution for the sports sector. It was necessary. There was a request, a expectation that we could hear and understand, hence our initial amendment to the first text, its first version limited to the sports sector. Secondly, the bill was the subject of constructive consultation with both the majority partners and the sector we listened to with great interest. We're limited to the sector, we're limited to time too. The commitment has been made in committee, and I think it will still be so today, to put the work back on the job from the beginning of 2021 in order to reflect on what the sectors concerned are asking for: a clear status that does not suffer from an inter-banking, a solution in the legislation, solid and structural. We'll need an evaluation. It'll be done. Then we will discuss it again. In the end, it is true that there is a contribution of solidarity, a levy of 10%, a minimum rate of 5 euros per hour, provisions on well-being at work, a limit of hours. So far, I don't think there's anything to be surprised about. In short, nothing very different or revolutionary than fundamentals in terms of social protection. After a few days, a few weeks of seeking compromise and balance, we came up with a text that is not perfect. We have no problems to say. We said it in committee and we can repeat it tonight. But this text allows a solution to be found before 31 December and gives answers to the sector by committing itself to further progress towards a more stable law. That's in a few words. We've talked a lot over the last three days and I'm not going to go any further. But I wouldn't stop without saying two things. The first is that the debates were complicated in committee. Technical details sometimes appeared very early in the morning for discussions in the morning or in the day. The debates have been respectful and this is something that I have already stressed in committee and which I would like to stress again today. There was a consensus to find a solution. It wasn't perfect, but there was a consensus and we got there. The second thing is the following. In particular this evening, after these three days of plenary, I would like to thank in particular the services which, for weeks and months, have shown a serious and unheard-of investment. I have been particularly impressed and I am respectful of all that they have done so that we can carry out the debates of the last three days; of all that they have done since we have been together in this Parliament for a year and a few months. I'd like to have a thought for them today. This oral report, this work that we are presenting here, also comes out thanks to them. Madam President, I just wanted to highlight this tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u29	Madam President, I do not want to prolong the debate unnecessarily. I think I have indicated the essential elements of the context in the report. I fully agree with what my colleague, Mrs Leroy, has just said. We have a provisional solution here. As I have indicated, several colleagues have called for the government to work quickly and well, and for consultations to be held as soon as possible in order to arrive at a definitive situation. This allows for continuity of action and activities in the field of sport for those concerned, in an already very difficult period for sports clubs. We therefore fully support the agreement here. This situation is not without difficulty, but it is reasonable. We have taken a great deal of account of each other's opinions. The voluntary sector has one vision, the social partners another. A solution must be found in what is called the grey zone, between volunteering and paid work. As an interim solution, it is entirely reasonable and acceptable. The Socialist Group will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u30	Madam President, the role of sport and organised sport is of particular importance for social and mental well-being in these uncertain times in which full social life is affected by corona. Besides moving and being physically active, the need for social contact is at least as important. Joint sports and participating in competitions and sporting events, contributes to the social cohesion in our community. The sports sector, and in particular the many local sports clubs, received an extra thump in addition to the enormous coronadreun on their club activity earlier this year, in particular the destruction, together with other laws, of the association work by the Constitutional Court on the basis of the violation of the principle of equality. However, the system of association work answered a wide demand from sports clubs to compensate a number of their employees in a fair and legal way for their services to the club. After the destruction, the legislator only remained for seven months to provide a new legal basis for the regulation of compensation for the work of association. Despite the inclusion in the coalition agreement, despite the various announcements in Parliament and in the Committee on Social Affairs, it was waiting until last Friday for the discussion to suddenly begin and add a package of amendments immediately. This way of working often leads to garbage legislation. There is no time for in-depth debates. There is no time for a second reading or an opinion from the Council of State on the amended version. The committee members, as well as the Members of Parliament today, and even more the 20,000 trainers, helpers and teachers and their respective sports clubs, stand their backs against the wall. Or is it really the intention to produce premature legislation which does not pass the test of the Council of State or the Constitutional Court and which should be reworked later? Do people like to keep making the same mistakes? After the destruction of the first law, colleagues De Jonge and Lachaert came up with a new proposal which was not well received and which was heavily criticised by both the Council of State and the NAR and with them also by many sports clubs that used it. The special attention given to this legislative work by dozens of sports domes and associations draws our attention to the fact that a new, coherent regime is of the utmost importance. Indeed, we are very keen on the sports sector and we hope that, especially after the corona times, the population will exercise even more than before, but sport is above all a community matter. We are convinced that more intensive consultation with the regions was and is necessary. Especially for the follow-up legislation that is already being announced, consultation is necessary. After all, clubs and association workers expect a structural solution, not a solution for another year. With this law, we provide a sufficient legal basis for certain people who are active within associations and receive compensation for this. In other words, we ensure that those concerned are not paid in black, as may have been the case all too often in the past, and are de facto not in line with the legislation in force, ranging from accidents at work on safety at work to the tax treatment of compensation. We certainly would not have approved the original Article 3. The Council of State and the National Labour Council were also very critical of this. To be honest, it was very unclear to us what the liberals still saw as union work: babysitters, guides, educators, counselors in the shelter, night-sitting. The risk was certainly not nonexistent that the listed list of association work would lead to the replacement of regular work, but an amended version of the job list might appeal to us. The scheme is now reserved only for activities in sport, but on the basis of the figures of 2018 and 2019, 20 to 30% of the former association workers are excluded in this new law, mainly from the sociocultural sector. What shall we present to them now? Will a legislative initiative be taken for them? At least that suggestion was made in last Friday's introduction, but everyone knows how it is: it is the period of good intentions and once the first Monday of January has passed, they usually disappear. However, let us certainly not make the same mistake by once again giving a very comprehensive list of functions and sectors the opportunity to work together. This is and was the main delver of support for and credibility of the present bill. The question is also whether the number of hours an association worker can use, namely 50 hours a month, is sufficient. We understand that a limit had to be drawn somewhere, but in certain periods, such as summer, when there are many sports camps, one will quickly rise above that number of hours, even if one takes into account a quarterly set-off of hours. We also call for the administrative burden to be kept to a minimum. The combination of voluntary work and benefit-seeking unemployed is a difficult issue. We understand that if an association worker suddenly becomes unemployed, he cannot immediately stop his association work, but at the end of the contract of association work it is over and out if the person concerned still has not found a new job at that time. This can be problematic for the association worker as well as for the sports club and its members. In favour of allowing this to happen, we are going too far for clarity. However, we do not want to push those involved back into the black circuit. Especially with the economic disaster year 2021 coming towards us, the problem raised will be more than just facts. The combination of disability benefits and active participation in association or sports clubs is also welcome, if possible. A full-time or even part-time day job may not be possible for a large part of the disabled population. However, if we can allow the combination of a benefit and a relatively limited remuneration as an association worker, both the club and the employee will be able to do so. This benefits self-esteem and integration into society. The ten percent RSZ contribution, imposed on the part of the organisation, and the 20% load on the recipient, make it a bit more difficult. This means once again a new rate and thus again adjustments to the software and the method of calculating social secretariats and the tax authorities. However, this means, above all, a new tax. It continues to amaze us where liberals continue to draw inspiration, to invent new taxes over and over again. Above all, the government does something here that it refuses to do to others. From 1 January 2021 more RSZ and taxes will be paid for the better trainer of the miniatures of Zwevegem than for a first class peak. That's the madness at hand. As the old regime expires on 31 December 2020, this is therefore legislative work with the knife on the throat. We will therefore have to support it, for lack of better. In this way, the current law is a temporary solution for the sport sector, which we do not want to abandon. Nevertheless, it is regrettable that we are reintroducing the uncertainty for the clubs by applying an expiry date of 31 December 2021. As a result, we put the stress back in the camp of the clubs. Even without the deadline, we will be able to adopt new and better legislation. In that case, the pressure is on us. After all, I will tell you exactly what will happen in a year's time. Then we are once again in similar circumstances and are once again afraid of a new solution for a very large group of people. We do not forget that, in addition to the many association workers in sport who benefit from the scheme, there are also millions of fellow countrymen who receive high-level sports training without having to pay insane membership fees. It is not only our social security, but also our health care, that benefits a sporty and therefore healthier population.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that parliamentary work is sometimes ungrateful and I think that no one here should contradict me. We often have to work urgently with the risk of defending texts which are perhaps not entirely satisfactory but which, on the other hand, are necessary for one or the other sector or, in any case, for the proper functioning of society. It is a bit of the feeling that comes from this bill that is before you and that concerns associative work. There is, on the one hand, satisfaction and relief in the end, leading to a solution in a debate that has been taking place in the House since 2018 and, on the other hand, the feeling of "too little" because the proposed measure is only temporary – we have repeated it a lot – because the text does not allow – we must be of good account – to fully meet the needs and remarks made by many sectors, including the sports sector directly concerned here. But, as my colleague said, we had no choice. The law of 18 July 2018, as amended by the law of 18 October 2018, did indeed establish a difference in treatment both at social and tax level when carrying out an activity in particular in the context of associative work. The Constitutional Court was then called upon to rule on this difference in treatment in relation to the constitutional principle of equality and non-discrimination. Its judgment of 23 April 2020 is unequivocal. The Court considers that this difference in treatment is unjustified and therefore declares the law unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court, however, takes the decision to maintain the effects of the law until the end of 2020. It was therefore imperative that a solution could be found before the beginning of 2021, under the penalty of legal uncertainty. It should be recalled that, for 2019, it was 3,633 associations and 20,242 people who had recourse to associative work. That is to say, if the device is important and if it has aroused a great enthusiasm. That is why my colleague, Tania De Jonge, is putting forward a new proposal to maintain the system of voluntary work while trying to respond to the remarks made by the Constitutional Court. I was happy to join this in co-signing the proposal. A great many opinions are then sought. Hearings are held at the end of September to hear from all stakeholders on this issue. In the meantime, the government is in place. It provides in its government agreement "that, in consultation with the sectors concerned, a new regulation on voluntary work will be introduced and will enter into force on 1 January 2021". It was therefore our responsibility to reach a consensus on the text before the end of the year. This is done for the sports sector, although I regret that the cultural sector cannot benefit from it, because what is clear from the debates in committee is that the sports and culture sectors were not only the most demanding but also and above all the most in search of a regime adapted to their reality. Unfortunately, we have not been able to meet their expectations, I regret that. Only the sports sector will be able to make use of voluntary work as of 1 January next. I am not going to repeat the many adjustments made. All respond to comments made by both the Council of State, trade unions and employers' organizations, the High Council of Volunteers or the Data Protection Authority. In the end, it is true that we are able to achieve a hybrid system between voluntary work and paid work where the voluntary worker receives a minimum income of five euros per hour on which a 10% solidarity contribution and a 10% tax levy will be charged. In parallel, the associative worker will have to carry out another professional activity but here the threshold of the 4/5th is lifted. Finally, the number of hours will be limited to fifty hours per month calculated on a quarterly average instead of reference to the annual basis. In conclusion, it is important to stress once again that this arrangement is temporary until 31 December 2021. This will allow the new government to consult the sectors and the social partners. I hope that we will find ourselves in a year's time with a measure that will be complete and satisfactory for all. So you will understand that, while excluding the cultural sector, the mechanism is incomplete for my group, we will support this proposal. I'll give you a date in a year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u32	Madam President, the importance of the legislative proposal for association has already been mentioned here. CD&V fully supports that. There are more than 100,000 non-profit organisations, a multitude of actual associations and millions of volunteers who are very active in association life. A few years ago the need emerged to provide an additional level between classical volunteering with a nice expense scheme and regular employment. This also happened in 2018, when the association work was introduced with the addition law. This association work has already been extensively applied. However, at the beginning of this year, the Constitutional Court considered that there was an inequality with regard to regular employment regarding social and tax exemptions and working conditions. That is something that we have to take into account. There were several possibilities. If we know that the system will expire on 31 December 2020, we can wait until that date or try to find a solution. CD&V wanted to find a solution and at the same time Open Vld also submitted a proposal to which we have cooperated in recent weeks. This solution was intended to help the associations. The first solution proposed by Open Vld was indeed submitted to the Council of State. In that first proposal, which provided for only 10% of the solidarity contribution, the Council of State noted: "However, it is very doubtful whether the 10% solidarity contribution is sufficient to eliminate, in the words of the Constitutional Court, the significant difference in treatment as regards the tax and social contributions to the remuneration of the association work, especially since that contribution, which is solely due by the organisation as such, has no reason to believe that the difference in treatment between association workers and regular employees established by the Constitutional Court is not apparent." With this advice in hand, there are two possibilities, namely that it does not concern itself and that it makes legislation which may be open to appeal or take this into account. We have heard and learned from the N-VA colleagues, including in the story of the cheese route, that they are in favour of solid legislation. It's only natural to sign up for that. We'd have preferred it different, too. We would also prefer that association workers should pay 0 % tax in order to support association life, but this shows that it has to be taken into account in order to make sound legislation. That is what the present legislative proposal has been drafted on. I would point out that this is an interim statute between voluntary work which has been in existence for many years and is being used well and regular employment. Now we are indeed providing for an intermediate statute: 10% plus 10%, which is little compared to regular work, but more than what we are used to. However, it is solid legislation. Finally, I would like to point out that it is a provisional arrangement. It is certainly also our concern to look further at enlargement to other sectors, particularly the cultural sector. We hope that we will be able to take these concerns with us in the coming months and in the coming year to a final solution. CD&V is a great defender of association life. Association life also deserves solid legislation. Associational life is nothing to do with legislation that is once again under discussion, so we believe that this as a provisional solution is a good solution which we can support pending a solid new system with answers to the concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u33	Madam President, in the meantime our party has already seen some passages. We've always been constructive. We have already passed laws here which have taken three steps forward. We have also approved two steps forward, and we have even supported things here that we think are just a miserable step forward, but that is better than nothing. However, if you take five steps in the wrong direction, you will have lost us, ladies and gentlemen of the majority. This is the case here, in the yet another attempt at resuscitation of the destroyed back-up law of the previous government. Today is 17, almost 18 December. In 14 days' time, the old regulation will expire and there will have to be a new solution. If there is one case I find really punishing in this file, then it is the time pressure that was put on the hood of the misery of so many people working in their union. That pressure of time serves to get the worst of all conceivable solutions through. We have already heard several statements here, and I have the impression that nobody really supports that law, but yes, that is how it is. In practical terms, this is as follows. Write a bad law and don't listen to the Council of State. Oops, the law will be destroyed. In between about five hundred days lose time playing games around a government formation. Then just return to the law, because a blue trophy is still needed. Again, that law isn't good enough. Then suddenly, in the busiest week of the year, that law is brought up again, amended from here to Tokyo. And hopla, look, the people of the associations don't know what they're up to, but now everyone has to vote in favour. If that's the new political culture, chapeau. I note that, once again, after my presentation at the committee meeting, not all government parties are happy with this proposal on association work. At least, that's what I could read in the paper the next day. In committee, the green euro had clearly not yet fallen. Fortunately, Mr Goblet, on social matters, there is still a trade unionist who clearly understood more quickly that there was something wrong with that law. Honestly, after that, I was thinking about Frank's monster... Frankenstein. Even the proposers call it an interim statute between two worlds. Is it volunteering or is it real labor? Is it a human being, is it alive or is it rather undead? Will the law survive a next round at the Constitutional Court, or will the law in a year's time be effective? Apparently, there was also uncertainty and confusion about the precise status of the association work. Perhaps that is because of all the last-minute amendments. Just like in the book, or similar for those who saw the film, there is also a sad note. No one really likes this interim statute. Too expensive according to our colleagues from N-VA, too limited according to Open Vld, no candidate for a beauty prize according to Green. As long as that doesn't go wrong. Now I want to make my own point, because that's what I'm finally here for. All the people who work for the sports associations, for hours with all these training courses, deserve real appreciation, real compensation and real social protection for their work. These people perform, they work. For me, one moment on the committee last week summarizes everything. There was a brief exchange between the Minister and Mr Anseeeuw of N-VA. Mr Anseeeuw criticised the 10% additional tax, just as he did. The Minister replied that this was the only way to get this proposal beyond the Constitutional Court. That's exactly the problem. The additional legislation of the previous government has been removed because it went completely below the social bar, with poor working conditions, poor wages and poor social protection. Everyone realizes that this law introduces a minimum wage of 5 euros per hour for association workers. I'm gonna take a look at the members of the PS. Who will explain this later to all your comrades who have been campaigning for more than a year for 14 euros an hour? What if this is extended to so many other sectors? It should also be extended to the cultural sector and other sectors, I hear. Do you know what opening you are creating with this arrangement, dear people? This is why the back-up law of the previous government has been removed. This year, the Constitutional Court has described in its comments an absolute social minimum to be met by a person working: a little pay, a little social insurance and a bit of safe working. The government parties, the new government, this new minister, the Flemish national opposition, including Flemish interest, take everything to the minimum and then think to move forward. I should also like to mention the removal of the obligation to work for four fifths or more. This is sold as an opportunity for people without a steady and stable job to earn a penny. Fair odds for everyone is so to speak. That's not how it works. What will happen to people who have no other income and have to live off a minimum job? There's a chance now. In normal times, these people will, of course, double for union work without building up proper social protection. They fold in half until there, weird but true, a corona crisis breaks out and suddenly they have nothing, except a ticket for the OCMW. Is that the point? I don't think so. I'll repeat it again. Everyone we contacted was uncomfortablely surprised, both about the content of this bill and about the way in which it works. By the way, the people who later made a lot of left-wing statements in the newspapers had forgotten to contact the people who came to the hearings in advance. I'm finishing up, but I still want to say something about losing time. Ten years is much longer than 500 days. In Flanders, N-VA has been competent for sport for more than ten years, since 2009 to be precise. If, in my view, there is one great mystery in this dossier, and I am looking at Mr De Roover, then it is why that party is such a big fan of regional powers that when it comes to doing nothing with it. The Flemish government has literally informed the federal government that it is not competent. Federal government, fix it! Can the Flemish Minister of Sport not grant subsidies to sports associations to properly compensate their employees through decent contracts? Maybe that was too expensive? A good Flemish, Brussels or Walloon subsidy system that supports the enormous progress and professionalisation of recent years in amateur sport, is that really so far-fetched? Everyone here keeps repeating how important the work of our trainers is. Of course, we have the best trainers in the world, the best referees and logistics helpers. That's how we like to see it but ho but when it comes to support and good, normal working conditions. We have to be realistic. The Minister also said something about it in committee. Here it is developing a labour market in amateur sport, but also in other sectors. You know that, Liberal colleagues, with supply and demand. The time of the volunteers is over, and if this clean work does not generate major profits, such as in health care, education or culture, then perhaps we should give a real boost. The cultural sector, which you have spared in Flanders, has come to the streets and they needed a corona epidemic to keep them off the streets. You have failed to compete with the cultural sector and now, at a time when money is needed and they are not going to survive, you are going to the federal Parliament to ask for money. Of course, introducing a fake statute doesn't cost anything. Colleagues, I'm finishing up. One year, Frankenstein's monster can walk around here for as long as it depends on me, the PVDA and many civil society organisations. Let me end with a constructive note. There are plenty of alternatives on the table for that unintentional interim statute. There is, for example, Article 17 of the 1967 Law on the 25-day scheme, which was already discussed in committee. We can also look for it in the direction of part-time work or temporary contracts in secondary employment. These solutions are all very flexible and fit at least in the world of the normal worker. I would once again ask Minister Vandenbroucke whether he can assure us here that the interim statute is only for one year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u34	The proposal we are discussing now concerns my habitat, the sports sector. I'm a bachelor of physical education and I'm a former sports officer. The proposal today is therefore very close to my heart, not only because I have taught hundreds of hours in association life, but also because I have seen how associations of the quality training of their members have made a matter of honour and a top priority. Quality cannot be provided without training, so it requires an important effort from both the sports trainer and the association. It was therefore more than justified for the sector to be included in the Jobs Act of 18 July 2018, which allowed people to earn free of tax under the heading of association work. Untaxed extra income is one of the Liberals' programmes. On 23 April, however, the law was annulled by the Constitutional Court, following a complaint from the social partners. The social partners, ladies and gentlemen, are the employers' organisations, but also the workers' organisations. This was, of course, bad news for the now 20,000 people who work as an association worker and also bad news for the more than 3,600 sports associations that employ association workers. So I went to work together with my colleague and our President Egbert Lachaert to find an answer to the objections raised by the Constitutional Court. We wanted a solution for the union work, because we felt that the social importance was too great to be ignored. Without an adapted regulation, the sector was once again in the grip of undeclared work. When drafting the original legislative proposal, we tried to respond to the main objections raised by the Constitutional Court. It is not true that the bill was adopted on a whim, because it had been on the committee's table since 14 July for an initial discussion, after it had been sent to committee with urgency on 8 July. However, the amendments were dealt with one week ago. What major objections have we addressed? We have paid great attention to the social protection of the union worker. We have also specified the scope for 16 sectors, including sport, culture, education and care. We introduced a solidarity contribution of 10%, payable by the association. Indeed, the Constitutional Court had indicated that the large difference in tax treatment between association workers and regular employees was not justified. However, we kept the core of the scheme, that association workers can earn up to 6,000 euros a year, without having to pay RSZ and taxes, as is the case with a normal wage. Before submitting the legislative proposal, we had different discussions with our group and the people on the ground. On 28 May we had a consultation with the Flemish Sports Federation and the French-speaking sports federation. On 24 June we had a consultation with Unizo and other sectors, in particular from the fitness sector. On 30 June, before we submitted the proposal, we had another consultation with the Flemish Sports Federation, the French-speaking sports federation and Gymfed. So one cannot claim that there was no contact with the field of work. We then decided in the Chamber to hold hearings and to seek advice from, among other things, the Council of State. The hearings and the opinion of the Council of State resulted from the amendments that we adopted last week in the Committee on Social Affairs. Let me get this straight. We've narrowed the scope. The regulation still applies to the sport sector. Many colleagues have already said what that means. We must recognise that we must talk to the other sectors in the short term, because the socio-cultural sector and the amateur arts sector are also waiting for a regulation. That's what we learned from the advice. The aim of the legislative proposal is too extensive and it is therefore necessary to talk to all sectors. It was obvious to do so first with the sports sector, which, by breaking the original law for their youth work, got into trouble. We also provided for a tax charge of 10% on the fee. The Council of State has been clear on this in its opinion. With a solidarity contribution of 10% paid by the association, the difference in tax treatment between association workers and regular work remains too high for the Constitutional Court. For the sake of clarity, that is for all sectors covered by the Jobs Act. One can still partially destroy a law. That has already happened in the past. If one does not want to destroy a law in part, then it means that one wants to destroy it completely, because one does not agree with it. That was one of the fundamental comments. The High Council and the voluntary federations have also asked us to make a distinction between a number of colleagues who were wrong about volunteers and association work. A volunteer will be reimbursed for his expenses; an association worker will be reimbursed for his benefits. That is why we have registered a minimum fee of 5 euros per hour. We also made association work possible for those who work less than four fifths. This means that, in addition to pensioners, people working part-time are also eligible. We provided extra protection in the area of maternity and maternity leave and rest period between benefits as an association worker.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u35	Mrs De Jonge, Mr Anseuw is asking for the floor. Mr. Anseuw, you are not wearing a mouth mask. You must also, like all members, wear a mouth mask.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u36	Yes, but I want to ask my colleague a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u37	You will now have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u38	Mrs. De Jonge, I have a question. You are waving opinions from the Council of State, you are talking about the Constitutional Court and you are saying with a great deal of solemnity that we cannot just ignore those texts. That is true, but can you tell me where the Constitutional Court has asked for a tax of twice 10% to be imposed on sports associations? Can you tell me where that is in the text of the Constitutional Court? Could you also explain to me why for the platform economy, which is almost part of our regular economy, 10% tax is sufficient and why it should be twice 10% for the associations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u39	I will come to that, but that is literally in the opinions, Mr Anseeeuw.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u40	Has the Constitutional Court said that it should be a tax of two times 10%? The answer is no.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u41	If you give me time to finish my reasoning, I will be there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u42	It's okay. There's no answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u43	In the coalition agreement it was written literally that by the end of this year there was also a need to find a solution for the union workers. During the discussion of the policy papers, several groups of the majority expressed concerns about the way in which the union work would be regulated. We have an arrangement at the end of the day, and I am very pleased with it. The scheme takes into account the judgment of the Constitutional Court and the opinion of the Council of State, which left us little room, and allows sports associations to keep association workers at work, without the associations having to pay the same amount of RZS contributions as an ordinary employee's salary and without the association worker having to pay ordinary taxes. About the tax section, I need to get something off my chest first. Last Friday 11 December 2020, I explained the amendments in detail, including the fiscal aspect. At that time I heard positive sounds in the reply of the groups present. Let me repeat what the N-VA literally said at the time: we will support the proposal with the amendments. The proposal with the amendments responds to the comments that have been made from a legal point of view. It is good that there will be a regulation by the end of 2020. We will all support the amendments, even though we know that the scheme will not get a fair price. That beauty prize might hit something else. However, I am literally reading what was stated at the time. On Monday 14 December 2020, that party suddenly questions the solidarity contribution already known in Article 58 since 8 July 2020. When the amendments are rejected, the N-VA refuses to accept both the solidarity contribution and the tax levy. Later on, the draft law in social media reports is suddenly worth nothing, so the N-VA decided to abstain and thus threatens to abstain. The Constitutional Court and the Council of State were very clear. I come now to the text. Madam President, Mr Anseuw wishes to interrupt me. I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u44	Mr Anseeuw, Mrs De Jonge is pleasant to you and accepts that you constantly interrupt her speech. So you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u45	Madam President, this is a parliamentary debate and it sometimes happens that one Member interrupts another Member to ask a question. You seem to find that strange, but Mrs De Jonge does not find that strange, nor do I.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u46	You've already had your turn, haven't you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u47	Can I only speak once? Is this a debate or are we organising the world record speeches here? A debate is, of course, contradictory. If Mrs De Jonge thinks it is necessary to comment on our intervention in committee, then I do not think it would be excessive if I asked to say a few words about this. So I will, with your discretion. Mrs De Jonge, on Friday we said that this would not win a beauty prize. The essence of our argument was that it was good that there was a settlement, the merit of the arrangement was that it existed. It is true, however, that we do not think this is a top-notch arrangement. On Monday, when we continued the discussion, we wanted to change the arrangements and we still want to do so today. We want to remove taxes and add the amateur arts sector to them. Mr Colebunders, the amateur arts sector is quite different from the culture sector you mentioned. However, that aside. It is true that we felt it necessary for an arrangement to be reached, as I have just said. A scheme is usually better than no one. However, this regulation is not a good one, and we are trying to improve it with amendments. That is a logical part of the parliamentary work. We take colleagues' proposals seriously and we are trying to make improvements. Since we cannot stress the importance of these associations strongly enough, we really do not think it is right to divide them into double taxation if there is no legal basis for this. We therefore believe that this tax should be abolished. What we said on Monday is therefore entirely in line with what we said on Friday. After all, we completed Friday's discussion on Monday, not Friday. That is also normal parliamentary work. I would like to say very carefully that it has been rather chaotic in the Committee on Social Affairs over the last few weeks, but we have been very flexible because we felt it was important that an arrangement should be made. However, this is not a good arrangement. We therefore choose the least evil and will abstain in the vote. Mrs De Jonge, it is incomprehensible that you are going to tax these associations twice 10%. I have just asked you a question about it, but you cannot answer it because it cannot be explained. You ask the associations for two times 10% tax, while you ask for only half of the platform economy, which does intervene on our regular economy. You cannot explain that, and I fully understand why you are not answering my question. It perfectly illustrates that this was a cow business, a flat political compromise in which the PS has come to the longest conclusion. From their ideology that is their merit. Open Vld had to add water to the wine. Open Vld mainly drank water and the PS mainly wine. In the future, it may not be very different in many cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u48	Mr Anseuw, you have once again been able to repeat to the entire forum why you think that what is now before you is wrong. Madam President, I will come back to that. Excuse me if my explanation takes a little longer. I am forced to do so by the interventions. The Constitutional Court and the Council of State were very clear about the tax aspect. I quote from the judgment of the Constitutional Court: "The reasoning that compensation in question for association workers and occasional service providers is only incidental cannot justify the difference in treatment complained of. Moreover, even if the abovementioned assumption were justified, it would not justify that compensation which is incidental to the person concerned could benefit from a more favourable scheme than compensation intended to provide for the person concerned's maintenance. Also, the consideration that this would be a limited number of activities offering particular social added value does not justify the significant difference in treatment in terms of identical activities. However, the objective of avoiding undeclared work does not justify the total exclusion from social security and taxation of the benefits in question." I come to the opinion of the Council of State. The Council of State replied in its opinion to the proposal to pay 10% of the solidarity contribution by the associations: "It is very doubtful whether the solidarity contribution of 10% is sufficient to eliminate, in the words of the Constitutional Court, the significant difference in treatment as regards social and tax contributions to the remuneration for the association work, especially since that contribution, which is only due by the organisation, as such has no justification for the difference in treatment established by the Constitutional Court between association workers and regular employees. In view of the considerable gap between the tax and social contributions due, including by the employee, in the case of regular professional activities, this can be questioned." So it literally states that 10% solidarity contribution alone is not enough for the association. In order to avoid further destruction by the Constitutional Court, it is therefore best to provide both a social and a tax contribution. We have received amendments to delete both. That is the fastest way to regain the destruction of the Constitutional Court. A destruction means de facto a substantial tax increase, because then the normal social contributions of 38% and tax contributions within the progressive rates will apply, or the associations will be pushed back to undeclared work. I wonder how the N-VA will avoid that if the Constitutional Court destroys that arrangement. The associations are then brought into an even more difficult situation. Apparently, none of that is necessary for you. Those opinions of the Council of State are not important. You put it next to you, the same with the content of the Constitutional Court. That's too bad. This is especially an ideal solution for the people who will never last. There is an urgent need for a new regime for these people and these associations. First of all, this is important in sport. There was also a need for a certain level of taxation in order to avoid further destruction. We've succeeded. There is a regulation for which association workers must allow to continue valuable activities. A number of interested associations are disappointed. That makes sense. In the past, no levy was foreseen at all, but that scheme was therefore destroyed, for that reason among other reasons. It makes no sense to compare it with the previous scheme. The Constitutional Court has closed that door to the three sectors within that Jobs Act. The alternative is being taxed at the standard rate or again undeclared work. What will be the effect of this? This is undoubtedly a solution for many association workers and associations. That's what I'm gonna find out. In fact, socio-cultural associations are very interested in drawing up regulations for them too, so that they can make use of them. Well, that doesn't turn out to be such a bad arrangement. In this context, it is important that we also find a solution with the other sectors, with thirteen sectors listed, quickly by sitting around the table with them. The last report of the National Labour Council of 15 December emphasizes once again that an additional statute is not the solution. What I am pleased about is that all these social partners want to cooperate, in search of a structural solution. I therefore believe that this law should be thoroughly evaluated. We won't wait until the end of the year. Shortly after New Year's, we have the sectors around the table. It is also intended to carry out a thorough evaluation after the first quarter. I'll get on that myself. It is important to know what impact this law has on associations. Ladies and gentlemen, I have great respect for the people on the ground and I am well aware that they play an important role in the leisure activities of many Belgian sportsmen. They do that not only for the money, but also because they like to do it, because it is their passion and because they like to be on the field, especially in youth work. The added value of society is invaluable. I know that very well, because I have been on the ground as a youth counselor for 18 years. I would like to thank the Minister, the Cabinets, the colleagues and certainly the committee chair and the secretariat for cooperation, because the solution for association workers has indeed required a great deal of work in a very short time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u49	Thank you, Mrs De Jonge, for your detailed answers to my questions. It is true that the Constitutional Court is not asking for a tax of two times 10% to be imposed on our associations. The Council of State did not ask for this either. The Council of State only responded to a text you submitted to it a few months ago. However, the text before us today, following the amendments that you have tabled and which have been adopted, differs fundamentally. The scope of the activities covered by the scheme has been narrowed considerably. In other words, we are talking about much less activity than is included in the text you submitted to the Council of State. That's just the key to exempting associations from taxes. That is what I said in my first statement, namely that once the association work is limited to activities that do not interfere with the regular economy, there should not be a level playing field, because it is simply a different playing field. The Constitutional Court therefore does not make this a problem. The fact that you limit the scope is just the key to exempting associations from the tax. You have made my point and so it is all the more incomprehensible that two times 10% should be charged on the work of the associations. This is a political compromise, otherwise it would never have worked out that the platform economy would only have to pay 10% once, while the associations would have to pay 10% twice, whereas the platform economy would have to do with regular work and not the associations, certainly not in the way the activities are now described in the present proposal. There is therefore no reason not to approve our amendments. It'll give the associations the breathing space they need. I hear Mr Matheï subscribe to the importance of associations. I do not know whether they will feel the same way when the membership money has to be raised sensitively. During the meeting here I already got a message from a badminton club, a basketball club and a football club saying they don't know how to get those two times 10 %. They don't really like it anymore today. I'm not saying all these clubs are gonna stop, but you're gonna put them in big trouble. And that is not legally necessary, because the Constitutional Court has not said anywhere in its opinion that it should be twice 10%. But that's the result of a handshake, of a cow trade. It is a political compromise on the part of the associations. That's too bad. In this context, I would like to reiterate my call for the amendments to be adopted, all the more in view of the fact that, because the scope of the activities in the legislative proposal has become very limited so that they do not interfere with the regular economy, there is no legal problem of not burdening the associations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u50	Madam President, I will only speak very little time, because many things have already been said. The history of this rather chaotic case was also recalled, since the Constitutional Court had annulled the text. Then, a bill was introduced in July before it was heard again. As a matter of urgency, a text was presented on the profession with a view to finding a solution for the sports associations sector by the beginning of the year. So we were faced with the fait accompli. There are, of course, shortcomings in this proposal. Everyone said it here. Our impression is that in wanting to please everyone, no one was satisfied with this text, which – made of bric and broc – frustrates every actor. However, those who are most frustrated, but who have not been listened to in committee, are sports clubs. I see three reasons. First of all, a three-monthly calculation of the ceiling of fifty hours per month is required, instead of an annualization as originally planned. This has resulted in a serious loss of flexibility for this sector and, consequently, a reduction in the number of hours allowed. In fact, hours not worked during a month can only be carried over to the quarter, not to the year. This is all the more damaging because some sports are not practiced throughout the year. We have tabled an amendment restoring annalisation. Secondly, this proposal places a very heavy administrative burden on clubs, particularly those run by volunteers. We have also tabled amendments which make it possible to ease the administrative burden in this respect. Finally, as several have already indicated, this solution only covers one year. Hence, of course, a great concern about its sustainability, especially since the majority is divided on what will happen in a year's time. Will this text be extended, improved or deleted? At this point, we don't know. Of course, neither is the sector. Of course, a solution had to be found. We shall therefore abstain from this text. You could have improved it by means of some of the amendments that we have introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u51	Madam President, the government was involved in this work because the coalition agreement was committed to finding a solution to this important problem with the majority parties. I would like to pay tribute to Mrs De Jonge, Mr Lachaert, and to the other authors, Mrs Reuter and Mrs Jadin, of the original proposal, because, together with all the majority parties, they have managed to reach a consensus on something that has support, but is also really a necessary solution to an important problem. The government is further involved in this because, of course, we have to deliver on the proper and practical implementation of this arrangement, but also because we want to ensure good consultation with the majority parties. Of course, there is still work to be done here, and I will say a little more about that in a moment. I will not repeat all the very good arguments put forward by several members of the majority as to why this arrangement is what it is. Still, this is very clear. The opinion of the Council of State, which said that a number of problems had to be solved in terms of taxation, parafiscality and social protection, was indeed related to a draft on association work, not to the very broad scope covered by the original supplement legislation. These were indeed critical comments with regard to a regulation for sports associations and related persons. If you read the opinion of the Council of State correctly, you see that narrowing the scope, broadening the scope, saying that this is about a particular social significance in terms of activities, called secondary activities, are not arguments that could convince the Council of State to accept that no tax or social contribution would be levied. I want to say one thing, because I don't like the idea of a false quote starting to live. I do not think there is one person on the majority banks or on the government's bank who has said that this is a political deal. I said in the discussion on the timetable that this was a compromise between different views on how such an hourly arrangement should look. Others, from the opposition, then came up with the ugly word deal. However, I have said that this is a balance between different views on such an hourly arrangement. That had nothing to do with what was discussed here in the last hour. What has received a lot of attention here in the last hour is the two times ten percent. I therefore think I can say that there has been no deal or compromise at all. Everyone on the majority banks and within the government has indicated from the outset that they are looking for a solution that responds to the criticisms of the Council of State and is therefore sustainable and is as light as possible for clubs and stakeholders in terms of charges. That two times ten percent has everything to do with that. That's not a deal between different approaches. That is a united and practical solution to a practical legal problem, which we are creating certainty with. I can imagine that it is somewhat disappointing for those involved in sporting associations that we have decided that this should be resolved in this way. However, as other speakers have already said, I would also like to point out that we are making much more possible with regard to the previous regulation. In the previous scheme, the person concerned had to have a four-fifth job. Actually, there's an injustice in that. A commercial director of a grocery store with a full-time job could be an untaxed trainer at a club, but the cashier who works half-time in that grocery store couldn't. That's not very fair. We have therefore decided that the cashier should be able to do the same. That's what this is about. This also means, of course, that sports associations can attract a lot more people in order to provide such support. The terrain is thus greatly enlarged. That has disappeared somewhat from the debate, because much attention has now been paid to the cost. However, the enormous advantage of this proposal has unfortunately disappeared from the debate. Finally, I would also like to stress that the scheme is temporary. This is once again the government's commitment, together with the majority parties. We will soon be discussing a final settlement. By the end of January 2021, we want to consult with the socio-cultural sector in order to know what good structural solutions should be provided for that sector. However, I would like once again to pay tribute to the majority parties, who have brought together the settlement, in order to provide an urgent solution to an important problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u52	Madam President, I heard everyone right. I find it regrettable that the majority parties, leading by the proposers Open Vld and CD&V, who claim to be major supporters of our associations, are opting for new taxes instead of the associations. I'm so sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u53	Madam President, it is clear that we are the only ones opposed to this interim statute by the majority. Mrs. De Jonge, I notice that you're really worried about the sport. I'm sure of that. Really. However, we do not agree with the solution. As you know, I come from the automotive sector. Do you know what the most important thing about a car is? The chassis. One may have an engine to tell you and a good hanging, but if the chassis is not decent, everything collapses like a pudding. That's exactly what we're saying here. We have over 82 wage systems in Belgium. Believe me, there's something in there that could be a solution. In short, I often hear here saying that the association workers are priceless for the clubs. You too, Open Vld, have been driving Flanders for more than ten years. I wonder why this whole debate is about a federal interim statute? Why all the trouble with the Council of State? I am sure you have put a lot of work into this, but why all this work with the Council of State and the Constitutional Court? People started talking to a lot of people, I just heard them say. With sports federations, with Unizo, with sectors, but these are simply the club boards, the new employers in this new labour market. Did you talk to the union workers themselves, to the representatives, the unions, United Freelancers? Why didn't you talk to me about that? Because they have said quite clearly that they are against? Mr Vandenbroucke said it. He's gonna work on that real quick. We're really gonna hold you to that. Let us start in January so that social protection in our country is not undermined. It is very strange to note that the Minister is not making any real clarity here. The chairman of the committee is here. We want to be constructive and we want to be able to fly in in January. We don't want to have the same conversation next year. Next year, you won't beat us again because this isn't a patch.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u54	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u55	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1433/9) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1433/9) The bill has 72 articles. The bill has 72 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u56	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I now propose to hear Mrs De Bleeker. We do not, in itself, have a rule to organize this. We have a rule for the motion, but we will not vote on the motion because Ms. De Bleeker has spontaneously agreed to be present. The rules for organising the debate are not laid down, but I have a proposal. It's 9:45 p.m., and there are still about 20 registered deputies. Ten Members have been working for two hours, so there are still four hours of work. There is still debate on the budget of the House and the institutions to be staffed. Then there are a few dozen votes by electronic means, which will also take a few hours. If we want to avoid meeting here again at 10 a.m. tomorrow, I think we need to make arrangements now and try to abbreviate our debates. Nevertheless, we must allow everyone to speak, and above all answer the question you put on the table, Mr De Roover. We could draw inspiration from the current debate in plenary, under Rule 125. This has already been discussed in the Rules of Procedure. He proposed a two-minute speaking time per speaker, but gave members of the government five minutes to respond in order to give them time to express their motivations. One speaker per group could also speak for two minutes, allowing each group to speak while limiting the duration of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u58	Madam President, I fully agree with you that we are working with an agreed speaking time in the light of the late hour. However, two minutes seems too limited to me. It is not a matter of a small matter, perhaps later it will prove that it is, but at the moment we need to look at it in depth. It is a matter that we must also be able to introduce, which is why I propose a slightly wider speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u59	I hear a lot of echoes that work needs to be speeded up, but when we propose a solution that seems to me to speed up the work, no one agrees.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u60	Madam President, in view of the fact that several Members wish to speak, the fact that Secretary of State De Bleeker has the time to reply and that replies can follow, I suggest that speaking time should be limited to five minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u61	Perfect, if you agree, we're adopting this timing. [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u62	I therefore ask you to agree within each group on the length of your future interventions for some 20 speakers still on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u63	Madam President, Madam Secretary of State, thank you for coming here. I think this was necessary, too. After all, we have experienced a special moment on Twitter. That's a very dangerous medium, you know that. I had the opportunity to question Minister Vandenbroucke on this. It seemed after his answer that he has a different view of transparency in this case than you do. You can withdraw that tweet, but he is there, of course. As a result, people are already going to look at that table tonight and ask questions. There are, for example, EUR 1.80 vaccines and there are almost EUR 15, which is times eight. People will ask themselves who will get a cheap vaccine and whether that is bullshit. I should hope not, because they have all received approval or would all receive approval. Conversely, if they are all sound, how can there be a difference of eight? You're pulling out 280 million euros. If everything could be bought at AstraZeneca, it would cost only 60 million euros. Those are the reasonings people are about to make. They are going to wonder, and one has to have only one calculation tool, why it costs EUR 210 million. You will say that Europe has made those decisions. That's right, but I don't know if the discussions in the living room, on Twitter, on Facebook and so on will stop. I thought I read somewhere in the media that you referred to your cabinet. I don't suppose you're going to do that right now. That's unheard of. People of a cabinet are always covered by the minister or secretary of state. It's not about little players either. These are giants. That's where the strongest and most expensive lawyers are deployed. I'm assuming they have iron-strong clauses. I would like to read what we can find on the European Union website: "Will the Commission publish the contracts signed with pharmaceutical companies? (…) All companies require that such sensitive business information remains confidential between the signatories of the contract. The Commission therefore has to respect the contracts it concludes with the companies. " There's a confidentiality clause. First question: do you believe that you have violated it? I have read your CV about your experience in the European institutions. You have followed the competitive position of European industry for the food and drink industry. You are very familiar with the matter, you worked at the Directorate-General for Trade, you are someone who knows how things work there. If the answer to the first question is yes, I have a second question: who asked you to remove that tweet? I read in the media that that would be Minister Vandenbroucke's cabinet. Why did they ask you to remove that tweet? If your answer is 'yes' to the first question, I suppose that might have been the reason to remove that tweet. Next question. What are the consequences of this? I imagine there's no laughing about this. For the sake of clarity, we have, together with the sp.a, adopted a resolution in which we want to regulate transparency on such deals through the Court of Auditors. There are certainly arguments for not throwing it out on the street and certainly not all the details, but we must of course know that it is about taxpayers' money. What do you think are the consequences of breaking the non-disclosure agreement, which may be linked to this? What consequences does that have for our country? Are we threatening to get fines for this or, worse still, are there other sanctions against those companies in relation to our country, the supply of vaccines and their price? What is the connection between the possible breach of that clause and our relationship within the framework of the European group that jointly carried out this purchase? I have just read out a reply from the Dutch Minister for Health who said that confidentiality is based on a confidentiality clause in the contract between the European Commission and the producers concerned and that the Dutch representatives, like the representatives of the other participating countries, have also committed themselves to a confidentiality obligation by means of a confidentiality agreement. If you have broken through it, what are the consequences? What are the consequences for the reliability of our country in such constructions? After all, both the Prime Minister and Minister Vandenbroucke have repeatedly underlined the added value of entering such a European construction. To what extent is your tweet now pointing the finger at us as a country that has broken through a fundamental element of the contract with the big boys? For the record, I'm not here to defend those confidentiality clauses, that's not my point. We have to do some work on the Rules of Procedure, but here we are talking about the extent to which the existing framework has been respected and to what extent you have committed infringements here. I'll come to my last question. In your view, what consequences does this have for your actions and function as Secretary of State when the answers to the first questions are that we have a serious problem here?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u64	Madam President, in view of the fact that we have been sitting here continuously for 36 hours, I shall be brief. I had a few questions that have already been asked by Mr De Roover and I will not repeat them. Madam Secretary of State, you seem to have made a mistake. I believe that you have also implicitly admitted this by deleting that Twitter message as soon as possible. In the meantime, however, evil has happened. Making mistakes is a matter for people and you could call the long sitting time and fatigue as mitigating circumstances, but there is, of course, also a political responsibility for mistakes. We're about to get your vision on that last one. The obligation of confidentiality depends on a contract of which we do not know the content. It is therefore logical that we should ask whether there are any consequences for the deal that Europe has made with producers if this confidentiality obligation has been violated by the tweet. Are there any consequences for this country with regard to the purchase of vaccines? Are there any consequences of violating that confidentiality obligation? Are there sanctions on this? Are there any legal consequences? It also appears that there are fairly large price differences between the vaccines. Mr De Roover said that this could indicate a difference in quality, but I think that this indicates rather a difference in negotiating skills. Perhaps it would be useful to compare these prices with those negotiated with the United States, where there is traditionally much more transparency about these matters. Will it have consequences in that respect too? I will not ask any more of the other questions on my magazine, since Mr De Roover has already asked them and I would first like to give you an opportunity to clarify them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u65	Madam Secretary of State, you accidentally gave the cost of the vaccines on Twitter. I hear a lot of parties here saying it was a big mistake to put it on Twitter. Do you know what the great mistake of the Labour Party is? I can't believe you removed that tweet. We have been saying here for weeks that transparency is needed to boost public confidence in the vaccine and to give all the information to the people. The PVDA has been fighting at the European level for weeks, with other organisations and with Test Purchase here in Belgium, to get all the figures. How much is it? Now a Secretary of State accidentally brings a little transparency into our political sequence and starts criticizing everyone: "How can that be? That's a mistake!" But no, it's genius. Mrs. De Bleeker, put that tweet back on Twitter. The people should know that a Moderna vaccine costs 18 euros per dose and a Pfizer vaccine costs 12 euros. That is why we need two more of them. That's 24 euros the man. The vaccine of AstraZeneca costs 1.78 euros. How come a multinational sells a vaccine almost ten times more expensive than another? It's up to the people to know, isn't it? What are you afraid of? We needed transparency. We said we were going to give people confidence. We have here a secretary of state who, by mistake, makes transparency and puts everything on Twitter. And then I hear colleagues criticizing: "It's a mistake, and contracts, and clauses, and everything, and everything!" But last but not least, we have been saying for weeks that people must be trusted! Weeks! We've had to give them everything for weeks, as information. And now that a secretary of state is making a mistake about that, she's being criticized. No, that's good! Madam Secretary of State, put this tweet on Twitter! Really, republish that tweet. People can know. Why? What is a contract? Mrs De Bleeker, what I would be interested in would be for you to post a second tweet tonight asking these multinationals for the cost of their vaccine. Everyone's interested! How is it that one multinational can produce at EUR 1.78 and another at EUR 18? Why? There is a problem, colleagues. Don't tell me it's the cost price that's different! It is the management of monopolies. Our states depend on five monopolies to receive a vaccine to save the population. Can you imagine? Can you imagine the confession of power? They're gonna tell me they're the ones taking the risks. We have the numbers. There's no risk. This vaccine market is not free. Pfizer, for example, was not a vaccine company at all. Mrs. De Block, you know each other. Not at all! Pfizer simply bought a company in Germany. No speciality in the vaccine. They bought a company in Germany, because they have the money, because they have the monopoly. Let's take a look here. The Pfizer vaccine has an estimated cost of 406 million. How much of this was paid by the public service? How many public searches were paid for Pfizer? Two hundred to three hundred million euros public, via our universities, via direct subsidies to BioNTech. We pay the taxpayers for these multinationals. They make the last end of the way, and they take the bet. Do you think that's normal, colleagues? Do you find such a looting of the moneys of the normal state? You are talking about the free market, but there is no free market! And by the way, it's worse! The advance they have now made will not even allow other actors to arrive on the ground. Why? Because they're going to do all the big, life-size tests on tens of thousands of patients. Once they have taken the place, the others will have no room! We are therefore organizing here the dependence of all our States on a few multinationals. So, Mrs De Bleeker, I have to tell you: continue like this! Frankly! Continue, really, transparency! Somewhere, you wanted to give a subliminal message tonight, saying: it's no longer going, I want to give all the information. Keep going! Madam Secretary of State, my questions are very clear. Can you at the same time give us any data on the production prices of these vaccines? Maybe in a secret clause somewhere, it's published. Maybe it's in one of the offices. Go get this document, Madam Secretary of State! Put him on Twitter! If you're uncomfortable, you can give it to me, I'll put it on Twitter. There's no problem. I'd like to do it myself, put it on my Twitter account, free of charge. Just do that. That's my first question. Secondly, over the coming weeks and months, you will also bring transparency to the global dossier of vaccines, including in the field of protocols. I ask you to make all that public, all open source. I think that's what the people need. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has said a few times that trust is important. I say, ladies and gentlemen, in order to have people's confidence, we need maximum transparency. I recall that most parties indicated in their electoral programme that they felt that the pharmaceutical sector should be transparent on all its contracts. I am not going to mention any particular one because it was almost all parties that responded positively to Test Achats' request on this claim. Here we go. It's time or not. It's the contract of the century. People want to know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u66	Madam President, like my colleagues, I share many questions following the publication of these figures and especially in view of the large cost difference between the various vaccines that are being announced. I'm just going to paraphrase what my colleagues have already said. We have been calling for transparency for weeks. I don't have enough fingers to count the number of times our group leader, Catherine Fonck, has called on you, Minister of Health, to get transparency on this vaccination policy, always keeping a taste of too little. We pleaded this transparency so that it could be a source of confidence in the process. The tragedy with this tweet is that today, this transparency is fuelling mistrust of the process. So we have the exact opposite effect that the one that was sought. All you have to do is see the reactions on social networks. Citizens are probably wrongly making shortcuts to consider that because one of the vaccines is so much cheaper than another, it must be less effective. You're going to have to do a hell of a pedagogy to convince the people who were already reluctant enough to get vaccinated that, moreover, when they decide to do so, they won't have to start procrastination on the name of the vaccine, in the light of what they project as the effectiveness of each of them. There's a second element. Your communication is not consistent with that of Minister Vandenbroucke on the number of doses, especially for the CureVac. In committee, Minister Vandenbroucke announced an order of 2.9 million. In your tweet, we say 5.8 million, double it. This chamber has known – in a context which is strictly nothing comparable, I confess – a word which remained, in any case in the French-speaking area, well known and which had been pronounced at the time by Mr Verwilghen: "One of the two does not speak the truth." With regard to the CureVac, which of the two does not give the right figures? What are finally the actual orders placed? Those from your tweet? Or the information provided by Minister Vandenbroucke in committee? It is a complementary element on which I find it useful that you provide clarification. Thus, the information will be univocal and there will be no dilution of the information according to the government interlocutor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u67	Madam President, we have made the choice of working on a consensual basis on methods of intervention, and so much the better. But we didn't set the frame for the replicas. In order for the work to be organised with a certain degree of democratic and parliamentary fairness, it would be a good idea to set the time for replying. It would be worthwhile to have clear ideas about this, otherwise it may again run the risk of not knowing any limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u68	Since the replicas are usually shorter, can we agree on two minutes? [[Sentiment]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u69	Perhaps we are facing a missed act, Madam Secretary of State. Perhaps a part of you still wanted to go to the end of a form of transparency.- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There are two very different problems. It is singular, moreover, that only the opposition parties took the floor on the substance. This reveals a slight malaise. Is this tweet completely authentic? My colleague Prévot highlighted the contradiction with Minister Vandenbroucke's communication. Is it a photograph of a working document at a given time, or does this document have a finalized status? That it was misdisclosed is one thing. But in order to measure the error, it is interesting to know when this tweet is photography. Secondly, I will ask a real and important legal question. Is its accidental disclosure likely to have legal consequences on the orders themselves, on possible penalties, on a cascade effect? We are indeed in a European procedure in which other countries are linked. In all transparency we must be able to tell ourselves. Mr Hedebouw is right, but this underlines clearly how little of our states are in relation to the Big Pharma. Is this not the time, ladies and gentlemen, for a much broader reflection on our dependence on these multinationals? I have one last point that no one has pointed out yet. There is a whole debate on the possible qualities of the different vaccines. They all have different prices. It's more of a question for Mr. Vandenbroucke. It is known that they also have different rates of effectiveness so far. If we buy several types of vaccines, I wouldn't want to end up with vaccines of different quality and thus assignments, with certain categories of our citizens who wouldn't have the same quality vaccines. This is a real problem, even though it may not concern you specifically. But having such price differences raises a real question that deserves to be raised. Indeed, Belgium should not distribute vaccines of varying quality to its citizens because everyone has the right to a good quality vaccine. I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u70	Thank you, Mr. De Smet, including for the time saved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I was informed that I was requested to be here. I had gone to sleep, because I had been here for almost 27 hours during the debates. In these lengthy debates, it was often about the vaccines: that there would be no money for the vaccines that were not provided for, that there would be no vaccines at all. I have tried to refute this over and over again, but the discussions continued, including on social media. I was tired and I wanted to settle them once and for all. One of the pillars of my policy is transparency. I want to be transparent on the issue, perhaps a little too transparent. I come to your questions. My transparent attitude doesn't compromise anything. The vaccines are coming. They're ready. Why was that tweet removed? That's what happened in consultation. I was a little too transparent. I think it is my political responsibility to be as transparent as possible. I have tried that from the beginning and have said so in all the committees. I'm asking my associates the same thing. When it comes to such clauses, the agreements are there to comply with them, but I would like to stress once again that my attitude does not jeopardise anything. The essence of the whole discussion here is that vaccines are coming, that money is available, not on one budget line, but that is not so bad. There is a commission for this, just as the Flemish Government does for such business. In this way, we have tried to clarify the vaccines, first in the Chamber and then to the citizens, to ensure that there would certainly be no panic about whether or not money would be available for these vaccines. So no, no consequences. I understand the discussion about the different prizes, but I'm not a scientist, I'm not a doctor. Why these prices differ, don't ask me. I cannot answer that question. On the last question, it was a work table of my firm and I was able to make estimates to evaluate the budget. It wasn't a final official chart. That's what I used.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u72	Madam President, in order to avoid misunderstandings about CureVac, the Inter-Ministerial Conference of Health Ministers decided to purchase 2.9 million doses of CureVac. We could go up to 5 million doses, or even a little more, but I don't know the exact number by heart. Although we were able to buy just over 5 million doses, we had good reasons not to. This was linked to the assessment of the dossier, on which we had received an opinion from the FAGG. The Inter-Ministerial Conference therefore decided to buy 2.9 million doses. That's the right information about the quantity purchased. There is no doubt about that, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u73	Mr De Roover, you have two minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u74	Madam Secretary of State, I'm afraid you don't understand the seriousness of the situation. You have also not answered quite a few of my questions, including about liability. What you need to worry about most is that you will be supported by the PVDA. That party loves that kind of blunders. If I were in your shoes, I'd feel very uncomfortable when the simplism of the PVDA spins your posture yarn. The fact that you say here that there are no consequences and then goes on to the order of the day is a frivolity that is inappropriate against the background of what has happened. Madam President, I cannot imagine that is an end here. When all Members have spoken, I would ask for a 15-minute suspension of the sitting so that we can consider what we are doing with the answer. Madam Secretary of State, I must tell you that I am very disappointed that you are trying to ride around such a serious matter. I think it's worse than what you're putting out right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u75	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for coming straight here to explain the incident. I am well aware that this is not easy, but of course it is part of the important competence given to it. Mr Hedebouw, let there be no misunderstanding, of course we are in favour of transparency, but this must be done in consultation with all players. All the rules of law cannot be thrown overboard. Since September, we have been asking for transparency in the special committee COOVID-19 on all the documents on how to deal with the corona crisis during the first wave with all the blunders that have been published. We do not have enough access to that. There are 26,000 confidential documents, which we can hardly consult. Now we have a Secretary of State who finally wants to be transparent and just too enthusiastic. There are clauses in contracts which must be respected. That's what it comes down to today. What are the consequences of these clauses in those contracts? My questions focused on the legal consequences, on liability, on the consequences of the breach of the confidentiality requirement contained in that clause. However, we have not received any specific answers. Is this also covered by the obligation of confidentiality, because we do not know the content of these contracts? I'm still a little hungry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u76	This is how the Flemish Interest and the N-VA works: transparency, transparency, transparency as much as one wants, except when it comes to Big Pharma. Then we must respect the clause. Then the people can't know how much we have to pay, who we have to pay, how much profit they'll make. What the hell's going on? The PVDA believes that total transparency is needed. The vaccination campaign is so important to our people that I cannot understand that we, Parliament, the press, cannot get the information that is now in the multinationals. I want to know how much a vaccine like that costs. Those multinationals got so much money from the government. We give hundreds of millions. And we're gonna have to pay extra! One should be pleased that one has information. Mrs De Bleeker, continue with this transparency. Let yourself go. Somewhere you wanted to pass on that information, I'm sure. Go on with that. Colleagues, I'm even saying more. We have granted subsidies to the Big Pharma and they are going to take the profits because they have the patents. For such an important medicine as the corona vaccine, patents must be released so that all peoples worldwide can access it. After all, two thirds of the world will not receive a vaccine in 2021, because patents are aimed at profit for the private sector. Release the patents, as happened with AIDS inhibitors in South Africa. Give the vaccines to the whole world's population. Madam Secretary, you must go for that. For that, the PVDA will fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u77	Madam President, personally, I remember the debate that took place yesterday during the night. Basically, it was claimed that nothing was budgeted to ensure vaccination and the payment of vaccines, etc. The minister has shown brilliantly and fally that there is enough to cover the expenses of vaccination, including interdepartmental provision, and if necessary why not, with a budget adjustment that I have suggested myself. In relation to this, I remember for participating in the debate, the opposition has remained uncontradicted. As a result, the minister published a number of figures, which she is accused of today, while yesterday, all the questions tended to be whether or not the government was prepared to bear the expenses. The best of the evidence, she brought it, since in detail she showed that, in fact, the use of interdepartmental provision was already known. So she did the job! For the rest, some come with legal considerations of which we do not have all the elements here and I do not see what a 10 or 15 minute suspension could bring. Madam President, we have the information that the Minister has given us. The opposition received an answer to its questions. I also observe that the opposition's point of view varies from one group to another. I don't hear the same thing, and they're probably happy about it. At this stage, we do not have any elements to extend the debate to infinity. It should be recalled that the Minister came and immediately made herself available to Parliament. For the rest, the debate may be prolonged in the usual way that Parliament is familiar with in any committee which may meet at the beginning of the year if necessary and with, at that time, probably more elements in possession of those who would like to deepen the debate. But it seems to me that the answers were given. We may disagree, but there was an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u78	Madam President, one element on which I can join Mr Laaouej is that I do not appreciate the need for a suspension of the sitting. To return to the answers that have been provided, I thank Minister Vandenbroucke for his clear work, making it clear that it is the figures that he himself had given, namely the 2.9 million doses, that are valid for this vaccine. Madam Secretary of State, you did not hear me in my speech bringing you to trial for transparency. You have heard me express concerns about the consequences of the publication of a table that was expected to make the clarity but that was not accompanied by an educational package to avoid shortcuts. I am not among those who think that, because a vaccine appears cheaper for sale, it is necessarily less effective. Moreover, we do not have the details of the relative effectiveness of each of these vaccines. We must therefore protect ourselves from having to draw hasty conclusions, adding fear to fear, suggesting that some vaccines are more effective than others. The problem is that not everyone will be so reasonable. Some are going to do this shortcut and we have already been able to say in this House how arduous the vaccination campaign was going to be in the face of citizen reluctance. My fear is that this, by being misinterpreted, misused, can actually further reduce the conviction of people that it is necessary to get vaccinated. This is for me the major collateral damage of this hasty communication. Moreover, I fear that the legal consequences may be underestimated on certain aspects, but I do not have the capacity to judge them. In any case, I note that, even after your speech, applause was a little sluggish, including in the majority, because we were a little on our hunger on a series of elements to be heard. But the most important thing is not so much the controversy tonight. It is above all the ability to convince our people tomorrow that they will have sufficient and quality vaccines; each Belgian deserves to be vaccinated with a product whose quality must not be doubted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u79	Madam Secretary of State, thank you for coming back and answering us. The most interesting thing is what you didn't say. You said nothing was in jeopardy. All right. However, you did not tell us whether the publication of your tweet caused a breach of a confidentiality clause. Besides, I can understand that. Until you say so, we will always be able to consider that, legally, this break-up does not exist. So I understand your caution. Nevertheless, this is the heart of tonight's question. With regard to the slogan that "nothing is put in jeopardy", I did not feel you very assertive on this point. We still don't know if there will be any legal consequences. I take it from your answer that you think you can't, but you can't completely exclude it. Colleague Laaouej, no one rejoices. Like Maxime Prévot, I'm one of the people who don't think we need a session suspension and a dramatization. I must admit that when I hear your answer, although I am grateful to you for giving it, I certainly feel a little bit more informed, but also a little bit more worried.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u80	Madam President, contrary to what Mr Prévot said, we were not pushy. Simply, we heard questions and answers. A priori, apart from all the ramdam we do, we have confidence in the Secretary of State and the Minister of Health. I saw that in other countries the price of vaccines was known. In any case, it will be in the public square very quickly. Of course, to make a budget, it is necessary to use a table and calculation bases, if only to estimate what it might cost because it is not always known. And then, the price can also vary depending on the supply and availability of the vaccine. So, we're not at all reserved. The Secretary of State has come to answer us. Of course, it is important to know whether there is a confidentiality clause and whether it has been put in jeopardy. But we could not know. In my opinion, this is the result of fatigue and the way in which it was unfairly mistreated to know whether the funds were provided – when they were – and that she was treated as a liar. It is also the kind of demonstration of compulsive overcommunication in which one lives. We don't communicate calmly anymore, but wrongly and through. Journalists are only waiting for such demonstrations, accompanied by small murder sentences. I don't do that. I'm a guy who manages his public affairs calmly. I think we're wrong about living by communicating all the time via social networks. And we do so even by legislating, since, in wanting to rush us all the time, we make bad legislation, which is sometimes criticized by the Council of State, sometimes overturned by the Constitutional Court. What we miss is serenity. And I can see that here, there's just information. If there is no confidentiality clause, it is transparency. I'm not against transparency. If there's no privacy issue, there's really nothing to do with it. There's a purchase of vaccines at a price. It's communicated. I'm also for transparency. If there's no clause problem, I don't have a problem. I fully support the Secretary of State and the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u81	Madam President, thank you to the Secretary of State and to the minister – and I think it is normal – for coming here to explain an important controversy that has arisen in recent days. But you have given clarity and transparency. Perhaps a little more transparency than you would have liked, which is not honestly to displease us in my political group, but on important points. I'd like to insist. Yes, the budget provisions for vaccines are calculated, are planned. It is important to send this clear and precise message to our citizens. Yes, the vaccines will be delivered on time and as scheduled. This debate, and this clarification that you have given, will not change anything. That's what I'm holding back. That is what is important for our citizens, because the subject is too sensitive to be tainted with inaccurate things or political games. These elements of clarity and transparency are fundamental to my group. Thank you for being clear again. These are messages that we must be able to give to our fellow citizens without agitating any fear. Again, it's far too important. Indeed, transparency is also at the heart of our political project. Never too much transparency will displease us. The elements you have given us satisfy us. The last point I would like to make is that of Mr De Roover's request for an interruption of the sitting. We believe that this is not necessary at this stage and that, of course, any new element can be dealt with in a parliamentary committee. That's what's been happening for weeks, months. And that is what will be done if necessary in the future. I think that if there is something new there should be, it should be dealt with in a parliamentary committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u82	Madam President, I hear here at this late hour that everyone is an expert in vaccines. That may be so, but I have also heard here asking why there are different prices and different qualities. I would just like to point out that despite the enormous speed with which many firms have developed vaccines, the procedures for patient safety, but also for effectiveness, have been respected and are very strict. No direct link should be established between the price and the quality of a vaccine. It's not like a more expensive doctor is a better doctor, that's a big misunderstanding. I would also urge you to intervene in this matter with some knowledge. On the other hand, I believe that the Secretary of State has given her explanation in a very open manner. I do not see the need for a debate at this hour, Mr De Roover, no matter how much you like to do so at this hour. In fact, she came here voluntarily after a call from the Presidency and was not taken up at all, as Mr Francken said, on Twitter. It is important for patients that the quality is there, that the effectiveness is there and that we have provided the money to invest in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u83	Madam President, there are colleagues here who have asked the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State came spontaneously. We agreed on speaking time, we agreed on reply time by consensus. An agreement is an agreement. There have been statements. The Minister replied. All those who wanted to replicate have replicated. We have strictly respected the agreements we have made here together. I invite all my colleagues to respect those agreements as well. This also means that the debate has actually ended here and now. If colleagues still wish to use parliamentary means, such as oral questions, such as questions in the special committee, where there are possibilities on the basis of confidentiality of documents and where there are more facilities than in plenary, then they can do so if they believe they should. I have learned a few things from this budget debate which, as far as I am concerned, has lasted far too long and was not kept efficient. Firstly, there are enough vaccines. Secondly, they have excellent quality. Thirdly, the resources are there. The Minister for the Budget and the Minister for Health have repeatedly confirmed this in the gallery. That is the essence of this budget debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u84	Madam President, I would ask you to suspend the sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u85	That's against the terms.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u86	That's not against the terms at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u87	How long do you want to suspend the meeting, Mr. From Roover?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u88	Madam President, 15 minutes seems reasonable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u89	We're suspending 15 minutes. The sitting is adjourned. The meeting was suspended.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u90	The meeting was resumed. The sitting has resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall resume the sitting. I call Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u91	Madam President, as I said, we are not really satisfied with the answer. Many questions have not been answered, contrary to what has been said here. It is a debate of such importance that we must be able to conduct it in complete serenity. I've asked a series of questions. I believe I have respected that serenity. It is not, for example, that I gave the impression that certain vaccines would be inferior. On the contrary, I have said that they all get a hallmark before they are used. All I have said is that the table that has now been published threatens to loosen that kind of discussion and therefore threatens to undermine confidence in the whole operation. I wanted to make that point, Mr De Block. That does not need to be framed in any other way. There are two possibilities. Or is it true that what you have done has no legal consequences at all, Madam Secretary of State? If I were from pharma.be, which Mr Hedebouw is not, I would hire other lawyers. Either that's not true. If there are consequences, we must give you time. It all happened very quickly. You're tired, just like all of us. You've only had a few hours between the tweet and this moment. We must therefore give you time to develop the dossier to the full. If it turns out that there is more to it than what you are saying, then there is a problem. We agree on that. If that is not the case, then there is no problem, but then there is an opportunity, because we are in favour of the most far-reaching transparency, up to the point of breach of contract and risking fines, Mr Hedebouw. We do not want to exceed that point, unlike you, but we do want to go to that point. Should it prove, Madam Secretary of State, that your tweet does not infringe a clause which stipulates that the price should not be published, that would be interesting news, because then we can go a lot further in transparency than you and colleagues of yours so far. We can and will, of course, ask for more detailed inspection, because then we can go far beyond what has been claimed so far in looking at contracts with the big pharma, because they do indeed deserve to be examined. That is why, Madam President, I shall be presenting an interview. It can follow the usual path. This means that we are taking a moment to give everyone the opportunity to build up the file completely. In this interplay, I will ask the questions that I do not think have been answered by the Secretary of State. We will be able to discuss them in this hemisphere at the appropriate time. It will be a subject of deliberation in the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u92	If I can hear you correctly, then we will have to convene the Conference of Presidents. First of all, I propose that you continue the agenda of our meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u93	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: François De Smet, Sophie Rohonyi, Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u94	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Anseuw and Mr Vanbesien, refer to their written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that various support measures are needed for the volunteers in the care sector, the agricultural and horticultural sectors and workers who are not necessarily able to continue working. Is the cause still at the covid pandemic? No, it is at least as often the way in which the government has tried to tackle the pandemic in recent months or in our labour market, for which the much-needed reforms are not included in the plans of the purple-green government. That's an important nuance. The many support measures find at least as often their necessity in the choices of the government than in the covid pandemic itself. It's time to start making that subtle but important distinction. By power of attorney KB No. 22 a fund was set up to cover compensation for volunteers, association workers and job students who died as a result of a COOVID-19 infection. The fund provides for compensation for the surviving beneficiaries when the volunteers in question die as a result of COOVID-19. A small fee will be paid for the funeral expenses. We naturally support the idea behind the proposal. Many workers in the care sector can claim the occupational disease scheme in case of contagion by the coronavirus. It is logical that a similar scheme should be drawn up for volunteers and their relatives working in the care sector who are therefore exposed to a higher risk. However, what we do not agree with is the scope of the measures. We have already noted this in the past. For workers outside the care sector, an equally accessible occupational disease scheme is limited to those working in the key sectors who were infected between 18 March and 17 May 2020. Under the compensation fund, volunteers, job students and association workers have a much wider scope of application, which means that relatives of the volunteer working for a local non-profit association could receive the high death compensation. An employee's next of kin at the same non-profit association can't do that. That should not be the intention, but that is the case. The corona crisis puts additional pressure on residential care centres and rest and nursing homes, which in many cases are also faced with the breakdown of staff infected with the corona virus. However, sufficient staffing is necessary to ensure the safety and comfort of the residents. In normal circumstances, only public or private non-profit organisations have the option of using volunteers to address certain staff shortages. The power of attorney-KB No. 24 therefore already temporarily provided for the possibility for a ROB or RVT from the commercial sector to also claim volunteers. We therefore support the temporary extension of this possibility, which is now before us. Nor has the agricultural and horticultural sector been under the market in recent months. Due to the many restrictive measures by corona it was more difficult to attract foreign occasional workers. I would also point out that the restrictive measures have not happened to us. They're the result of government choices. By the way, the fact that we are still so dependent on occasional workers from abroad in 2020 and 2021 is also due to the fact that the government does not make certain choices. If, for example, it does not work on labour market reform, then that is also a choice. Having said that, we naturally support the measures to enable the agricultural and horticultural sector to get the work done, which de facto means that the available labour can be used more widely than under normal conditions. The draft law also provides for a total of 93 million in the financing of holiday allowances for staff who had to fall back on temporary unemployment as a result of the corona measures. This need is also the result of a choice by the government. It is of course important that people get their vacation money for the treated periods. We understand, of course, that it is extremely difficult for a lot of companies to raise that amount for periods when it was not possible to work. At the same time, we cannot ignore the fact that the measure is absolutely not fine enough. I would also point out that in 2020 there will be one third fewer bankruptcies than in 2019. It's got to be the government's way of thinking. What also needs to be considered is that the problem is perfectly solved without a grant of almost EUR 100 million. The N-VA has long advocated linking holiday rights to the current year rather than the previous year. If you take a holiday, you will be paid by your employer. The double holiday allowance then integrates the employer into the wage. In this way no distinction is made between workers and servants, so that even the National Service for Annual Holidays and the holiday greenhouses can be closed down. However, even that quick win is apparently difficult in this country. However, all the other European countries have been doing this for years, as it should be. The same applies to the workers. Some other temporary measures in the draft may be structurally anchored for us. I am thinking, for example, of the use of temporary unemployed in other sectors or at least of the retraining or retraining of the temporary unemployed. I am also thinking of the flexible provision of workers to other companies which do have acute staff needs. For this, too, the N-VA has prepared a legislative proposal. So that is also a conscious choice that can be made. There is, of course, also the quarantine leave, in which parents are entitled to temporary unemployment in the event of full-time closure of the school or the care of the minor child. Earlier today, in other debates on the subject, I criticised all of us, namely that this is a measure which too often does not meet real needs. For us, on the other hand, there must be a real need for relief. In the other case, it encourages workers unnecessarily to engage in inactivity, while activation is extremely important. The final piece of the law is a power of attorney to the government to extend the measures by means of a royal decree. More than ever, it is time to conduct the Corona debate in all its facets, openly and with all the cards on the table in Parliament. That too is a choice which we really must make very consciously. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: COOVID-19 has happened to us. The way we handle it isn't. These are the choices that we make and which the government makes every day. The consequences of the approach, including the need for various support measures, have not happened to us either. That's a distinction we have to make. We need to have a thorough debate on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u96	Madam President, it is a pity that we are still working on crisis measures through this bill on the extension of crisis measures. It would be so much better if we could talk about the future and the stimulus measures. Talking about the future is also done by protecting the present. This is what Bill succeeds in doing: protecting a whole range of people affected by the crisis. I would like to highlight five elements in this bill. First, this bill extends the mortgage moratorium for a maximum of nine months. This limit is imposed by the European Banking Authority. This means that those who have already benefited will be able to see it extended for up to nine months. I would point out that many people are still in difficulty with their mortgage and have no prospect of the future. Let us hope that Europe and the banking sector understand this so that they can find a solution. Secondly, this bill supports a second target and specific audience: that of the disadvantaged. CPAS are in fact on the front line and answer questions from people who are in poverty or in temporary difficulties. Supporting them is an excellent thing because it is necessary to support the people who are precarised. Thirdly, the support of workers as well as their employers through compensation for the cost of assimilation of annual holidays, in order to support the economy. This is therefore the continuation of the agreement between the social partners. That is to be stressed very positively. Fourthly, some critical areas have been severely affected and this bill proposes a series of temporary changes in labour law. Support for these sectors requires a relaxation of the opportunities to work there. It is an excellent thing to support them and to provide for a series of mechanisms so that, for example, the provision of workers is accompanied by the fight against social dumping, which is in the right direction. "Equal pay for equal work" is obvious! However, I would like to draw your attention to the overtime for which this bill extends the ranges. Particular attention must be paid to the potential exhaustion of workers in the sectors targeted by this measure. We will remain attentive to it. With regard to these labour law measures, I would like to stress that they are temporary. The situation is special. There is a need for specific solutions that require temporary support measures. The Ecolo-Groen Group is of the opinion that the provision on overtime is not intended to be extended. We are in line with the opinion of the National Labour Council. There is, in any case, a need to support these sectors. It is a good thing that this bill is getting there. Fifth, this bill supports parents. No one goes to temporary unemployment covid out of pleasure – according to the echoes heard during the debates. Having access to temporary unemployment in the event of school closure is important for parents when a child has to stay at home. It is our responsibility to also help parents who are often single parents who have no other way of caring for their child. It is important to have a genré monitoring of the impact and, to this end, particular attention will have to be paid to this measure. We'll get back to it. This bill is therefore a means of targeting aid to go through this period. It is a way of endorsing and expressing our responsibility to improve daily life. We will be very keen to continue to improve it and to evaluate the measures envisaged today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u97	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the game of panic football that the government is showing in both the fight against the covid pandemic and in the development of temporary support measures is a matter of concern to us. I think all the logic in the effect is a bit gone. Some measures are put into this corona law, but others have appeared in these days, for example, the programme law, to which the social tariff for gas and electricity has suddenly been added. Or, to give you another example, in Bill No. 1667 which is still on the agenda and which was first intended to give a loan to the social insurance funds of the self-employed, but finally became a corona law number 2. It all already have its reasons, but it's a bit like the coronabarometer: suddenly it's there and suddenly it's gone again. Many of the measures put in place are indeed effective. The problem appears to be more of a two-fold one today. First of all, the provision of information to the individual self-employed is a problem. The OMCWs, health insurance funds and friendly trade unions have services that follow these measures very closely. We have seen that they were sometimes informed earlier than Parliament itself. Do the individual self-employed still see the forest through the trees? On the other hand, the basis of the measures remains characterised by a very general basis of approach. It is understandable that such measures should be taken in March-April. Each self-employed person received roughly the same amount. But the fact that, after all these months, we have not yet managed to set up a system to enable an individual approach is actually hallucinating. I've got to get better. For the big boys, we can do this. Lufthansa, for example, received almost half a billion euros. It is all hands on deck to save the holiday money of workers and servants and the end-of-year premium of people active in the catering industry. However, there is a measure which can be justified on the basis of calculations. Why does it not want to do so for the individual self-employed? However, on the basis of fixed costs and turnover, there could be a system that is fair to all. Fairness is something that has disappeared in the measures taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the N-VA Group once again tabled its amendment to extend the VAT reduction in the hospitality sector, albeit temporarily. Our group will, of course, support that. I would just like to emphasise that our group already submitted a legislative proposal at the end of May to reduce the VAT rate in the catering sector to 6% on a permanent and structural basis. We believe that this is a necessary measure to support the profitability of the sector in a third phase, following the strengthening of liquidity and solvency. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, don't worry, we will not repeat our intervention from the committees here. However, we are still raising a few points to which the Minister did not reply or did not wish to reply. Of course, the support given to the greenhouses for the payment of holiday allowances, both for workers and for servants, was acceptable. However, we raised the question of what would be done for companies that would no longer employ staff in the second quarter of 2021 and thus lose that support, while they paid this holiday money when they retired in the case of the servant. A series of measures to ease the labour market are good to the extent that they are short-lived and will not eventually lead to the dismantling of social protection for workers. We are talking about the temporary admission of posting in some sectors and the smoothing of interim work. There is always a danger in such legislation. Once the principle, even if only for a short time, was accepted, one day it resurfaces as the most ordinary measure in the world. We fear the introduction of this kind of customary law. Even though we have supported the increase in voluntary overtime in key sectors, we are repeating our reserves. The number of overtime allowed is inhumane. Three and a half hours a day extra work in a care profession, after six months under pressure and tension. How voluntary and how long does voluntary really remain voluntary, we wonder. Is there not a risk of burning a group of these people permanently? Other measures were needed a long time ago, but they have only come a short while. This measure of voluntary overtime is intended to remedy the imbalance in the working environment. There's nothing else and so we keep more of the same. We are seeing with great concern the contagion rates rise again. As a result, the pressure on the care staff is increasing. We must not forget what great efforts have been and are still being made by these people, our corona heroes. It is therefore regrettable that these articles, for the rest, remain silent in all languages about the remuneration or any other arrangements that are opposed to these supposedly voluntary overtime. The linked bill of Défi and cdH does pay attention to this. For example, what could have been a measure is to exempt the social and fiscal contribution of overtime that healthcare professionals voluntarily perform during this covid crisis. Colleagues, the parents of disabled children do not have it easy in these corona times and are unfortunately forgotten more than once. We are not against a gender test that has to be subject to some legislation, but a disability test was also a good thing. We sit there with a group of usually ignorant people who are all too often forgotten. Then, once again, a pertinent remark by the Council of State is needed in order to come up with sound solutions. The adapted scheme for the care of disabled children without age limits is definitely a good thing. The fact that the majority parties are once again in favour of obtaining an exception status for what we usually call people without papers cannot be accepted by us. There have been so many unemployed, so many people who could be deployed. Is it really necessary to tap into that labourarsenal? They're people who don't know our language and our customs. What can they do at the moment in hospitals or rest and care institutions, or still in schools? All attention must now be paid to making the most of existing human resources and improving the use of additional training. Moreover, the latter should already be a relief measure: start now to be back there in a few days' time. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot accept the attempt by the government to imbue a decision of power of attorney into this legislation, on the contrary. The government wants to put Parliament out of play here, in the event of a pandemic, but also in the event of an epidemic, to have powers to act. To do what? A Belgian movie about one team of amateurs and 11 million victims who will all pay for the mess together? There is no need for power of attorneys to set up regulations and ensure that the malicious offenders are punished for their imprudent behavior, and that it is not a bullying scheme? Perhaps Parliament should make a contribution to gaining support for the measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u98	Madam President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, the coronavirus pandemic has hit our country hard. As early as March of this year, Mrs Wilmès' government had to deal with an exceptional situation and take similar steps. At the time, Belgium was almost stopped, with the sole aim of containing the spread of this virus and unloading our hospital system to the maximum extent possible. Emergency measures had been taken. I will spare you the enumeration of these. The budgetary valves were opened and could not be otherwise. Indeed, it was a question of guaranteeing the purchasing power of workers, by resorting to the relaxation of temporary unemployment. It was also intended to help companies facing the cessation of their activities to save jobs and to provide an alternative allowance for the self-employed through the bridge law scheme, not to mention the most vulnerable of our citizens by providing them with maximum social assistance. Secondly, the second wave has arrived and, with it, we have had to extend many temporary measures that have expired and take new steps to complete this specific legislative arsenal or adapt it to meet the conditions on the ground. I would like to take this opportunity to thank, on behalf of my group and myself, the members of this government, as well as the previous government, for their reactivity. Ministers, each of you, in the skills that are or were yours, has taken on his responsibilities and you have committed yourself fully. Colleagues, as already said, I will spare you the spread of all the measures. My will is, however, to point out some of them which, in my view, deserve special attention. First, the measures concerning CPAS. In recent months, the CPAS has experienced an explosion of demands not only from the usual beneficiaries but also from new audiences who have had to turn to them. The workload of CPAS has exploded and this has had a significant impact in budgetary and human terms. Also, to help them cope with these difficult times, the government has decided to extend the measure to increase federal ownership of new cases by 15%. This measure was implemented at the time by Minister Ducrame and complemented the €115 million envelope to cover the additional costs of CPAS. Beneficiaries of social integration income, income replacement allowance and GRAPA will also receive, for an additional three months, a monthly premium of EUR 50 to help them cover the cost of living and the additional costs they face. A second aspect concerns the volunteers, whom I also thank, because their assistance has been as necessary as it has been appreciated since the beginning of the crisis. Indeed, they came to lend a hand at a time when hospitals, health care institutions and certain associations, such as the Red Cross, are faced with a staggering shortage of labour, caused by the illness or quarantine of its staff. These volunteers, mainly elderly people, who were particularly exposed to coronavirus, needed coverage in the event of illness and death. The coverage was extended until March 2021. That's the least I can do. Finally, reception and care facilities in the private sector are also facing this labour shortage. Therefore, the exceptional and temporary use of volunteers is, here too, extended until March 31. For salaried workers, a large number of measures have been taken to supplement or extend the existing arrangements. Remember, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago we adopted a specific allocation of EUR 160 million to contribute to the end-of-year premiums for workers in the horeca sector and the allocation of EUR 180 million for the end-of-year premium for workers who have remained in temporary unemployment for more than 52 days. In this case, full implementation of the agreements reached between the social partners is to be found in Opinion No. 2179 of the National Labour Council. First, the scheme granting an additional primary incapacity allowance for workers who are recognised as incapacitated for work, whereas they fall under the specific temporary unemployment scheme for force majeure covid-19. The additional benefit amounts to 10% of the worker's lost earnings, which is increased by 5.63 euros per day. Second, federal intervention in the cost of annual vacations for employers who have resorted to temporary unemployment covid. This is an amount of EUR 187 million to be distributed in half between employees and workers. Thirdly, the possibility of concluding successive fixed-term contracts of at least seven days and a maximum period of six months for workers who are temporarily unemployed in the so-called crucial sectors. Or, and this is my fourth point, the possibility of making workers available to users in the care and education sector or to users operating contact-seeking institutions and centres in order to limit the spread of coronavirus. In addition to these measures resulting from the agreements of the social partners, we find, on the one hand, measures to support the agricultural and horticultural sector, which are extended by 2021; on the other hand, voluntary overtime in crucial sectors is increased by 120 hours in the last quarter of 2020 and the first quarter of 2021. Not to mention that student work in the crucial areas of care and education can be carried out without being included in the quota of 475 hours allowed. I cannot conclude the presentation of some of the support measures, not to mention the "corona leave" which, for its extension, is adapted to the reality experienced on a daily basis by parents whose children are placed in quarantine. Corona leave will now be granted to any parent whose child is a minor, provided that the child is unable to attend the nursery, school or alternance training. For parents of children with disabilities, there is no longer an age limit, both when the child is accommodated in an internal or external care centre. Here are the measures that I hope will cease to be in effect as of March 31, 2021. Of course, the possibility is maintained to extend them if necessary. However, and we are well aware of this, the health and economic crisis is not over. If we can hope that the virus will disappear quickly, the economic impact of the crisis will continue much longer. As some experts had announced from the beginning, this crisis we are experiencing is unprecedented. At the very least, we haven't seen such a big deal since the Second World War. The consequences will continue to be felt for many years, ladies and gentlemen. Madam, members of the government, we will be at your side to refine the measures in the short or medium term, or even to take new measures to try to help each of our fellow citizens, each of our companies, be they small or large, to get this difficult course to the best. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law on temporary support measures in the current state of the pandemic, the second lockdown, mainly contains an extension of many measures, new measures, but also refinement and adaptation according to the experience we have had in recent months. The draft contains many concrete measures, including for specific target groups. In the area of health, I am thinking, for example, of the extension of 6% on certain products such as mouth masks, but also of the compensation fund. The draft also contains concrete measures for workers with an increase in purchasing power and the rules governing the various cheques, as well as the tax arrangements for consumer cheques. The draft also contains a large number of arrangements for enterprises, with the main measure being the extension but also the simplification of the system whereby the amounts of aid granted by the Länder, the public authorities and the local authorities are and remain exempt. Finally, the key sectors are also not forgotten, and many measures have been taken to do so. There are many concrete measures needed to tackle the current sanitary, social and economic crisis and, above all, to reduce its impact.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u100	Thank you very much for being brief, Mr Matheï. I shall now give the floor to Mr Colebunders.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u101	Madam President, I cut my text a little short at this late hour, as you asked. You can see I'm not always giving you a hard time. This bill gives me a double feeling. I am going to explain why on the basis of some specific measures, but I can already say that some steps have been taken in the right direction, but at the end of the journey there are too many concerns, questions and absences. I'm gonna start with some concerns. We have now reached a truly worrying stage of deregulation and flexibility in the field of work organisation. And it goes a long way. Let me give you a first example. A permanent employee can now be loaned out to another boss, a piano that can go all the way. How will this be translated into practice? You realize that this can cause a lot of stress for the employees. How do you see this in practice? This also applies if the employee's consent is required. We know that it often has no choice but to accept. We can already see that on the basis of overtime: if you refuse overtime, you will soon be employed in another place. We are afraid that this will also be the case with this measure, especially in this period of crisis, where power is clearly on the employer's side. Either one drowns in the corona cap, or one is broadcast. Worse still, the original text even contained the following. "The written consent of the employee is not required where tacit consent is common in the sector in which the employee is employed." Fortunately, the social partners have vetoed this point. Would you have withdrawn this measure if they had not? I doubt it. You will say that these provisions only apply to a number of specific sectors where this is really vital. The reality is that such temporary crisis measures have a bad habit of becoming permanent. That brings me to my second example, the overtime. We don't understand. There are so many people looking for work and there are so many overworked, stressed employees and what are you doing? You'll allow more overtime. What you shouldn't do is leave people out of work and squeeze those who have work like lemons. Yesterday, in between parliamentary work, I was on a picket at the Yoko Cheese factory in Genk. It's gonna close, and it turns out what? I've been pulling their annual figures. They started closing in steps and what do we notice? The number of employees was reduced, but when the remaining employees are added up to five times that number. One may therefore wonder what these overtime hours are for. Worse still, these overtime hours are raised without the extra pay that normally goes with them. That is, and I add my words, a great absurdity. Like the trade union organizations, we are therefore opposed to this measure. We are outraged that this measure will not respect the European limit of up to 48 hours a week per employee in this quarter. As the employee representatives indicated in the NAR's opinion, the exemption from contributions and taxes makes this scheme particularly interesting for the employer. We are therefore wondering from what camp the pressure came from to implement such measures. Of course, we are pleased that you are ensuring that the periods of temporary unemployment are included in the calculation of annual holidays, but we would like to ask whether this aid also applies to large profitable companies or, worse still, to companies that put their money in tax havens. Will you comply with the measure in the government agreement which provides that no company with its pennies in a tax haven will receive aid? Can you guarantee this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u102	Madam President, I was once told 'or you will be heard when you start, or when you stop', so I will stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also be very brief. This draft law extends or amends a number of aid measures from the first wave. A good example of this adjustment is the quarantine leave extended to parents of children with disabilities whose extra or inpatient care is closed by covid. I will not list all these measures, but I would like to stress that both the National Bank and the Planning Bureau confirmed last week that aid measures, both those that are extended in this bill and those that are in all regulations, have so far stubbed the house. For me, that is proof that a strong government that invests also protects and that that protection is also necessary for a recovery later, when we will be vaccinated. We're all looking forward to that. These are, of course, temporary measures. This is also important for us. In any case, further protection is needed as long as these safety measures are needed and as long as the health crisis continues. Those are numbers and averages, and I realize that there are people behind them. It is well known, as the reports say, that the weakest in this crisis are hit hardest. That is why I would like to emphasise one point in this draft law and to add an additional question to it. The draft law implements the agreement of the social partners of 11 September. In this sense, it equals annual leave for temporary unemployment. That is good, because it strengthens the purchasing power of the workers who have already suffered a great deal of loss of income. This also gives them their holiday money in 2021. The agreement of 11 September also provided for another measure, in particular the freezing of the degressivity of unemployment benefits until the end of December. We are now at the end of December, but I would like to draw the Ministers' attention to the context in which this agreement was concluded. On 11 September we were on corona parents' leave during the last month, a flexible system of temporary unemployment was non-existent and a stricter system was introduced. Why? Because they assumed an exit strategy, because they already thought they were at the end of the tunnel. What do we see now? Now we see that the context is completely different. We're in a semilockdown. We're on the second wave plateau. I'm not a virologist, but it's not really clear to me whether there's going to be a third wave next week or next month. I hope from the bottom of my heart that this will not happen, but one cannot say that the context is the same as on 1 September. In addition, many other support measures for the self-employed and employees were extended until the end of March. The degressivity and the neutralization regime for the artists were also extended. Degressivity for the unemployed is not being prolonged. Of course, we are no longer at the peak of 1 million temporary unemployed, but there is a lot of temporary unemployed, also because a pack of people has to close their trade. I would like to ask the ministers to pay attention to this and to ask the social partners, if necessary, if this can be settled by royal decision, to remind them of that changed context and to ask them to extend that measure. This law provides for a number of support measures for OMCWs. We do this to relieve the pressure on the social workers, because they are flooded by applications. I really do not think it is possible for us, on the one hand, to give money to reduce the workload of the OMCWs and, on the other hand, to increase the workload again because the unemployed have to turn to the OMCW because of the degressivity. There must be a bit of uniformity in these measures. That is why I am asking you to look at that again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u104	Madam Chair, I am not going to dwell on the measures that we have mostly endorsed in the special power orders in the spring, and that are included in this bill. Mr Finance Minister, I am just going to dwell, which will probably not surprise you, on the amendment that we tabled in committee, which we re-tabled in plenary, concerning the challenge of the healthcare premium. Don't think we're monomaniac; but we care about this, you know. It is at the heart of many people, not only the caregivers, but also the population, who find that it is normal that they should be rewarded with this bonus, that they should be given one hand and then taken back from the other through taxation. You justified yourself in an answer to a topical question that Maxime Prévot asked you. You also answered me in committee. However, this does not seem to hold the way, as regional bonuses are defied. There would be a breach of equality between this federal premium and regional premiums. It doesn't make sense. So that is not the real motive. Moreover, you are talking about the legal certainty of the system. However, on other matters, you are less pointy. In particular, I would like to ask for proof of the tax on securities accounts. I think you are much less careful about legal certainty with regard to this tax. We really ask you to approve this amendment, which is necessary in recognition of the immense work of caregivers. We know that there has not been much breathing between the two waves, and that the figures are worrying again. It would be a real recognition that this €985 premium is full and complete. That is the subject of our amendment, and of course we ask you to support it. The arguments put forward are not the right ones, and you probably know that. There are others. We would like to know the real reason why you do not want this bonus to be defied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u105	Madam Chair, ministers, the bill we have before us, before our democratic assembly, is obviously somewhat familiar to us. As indicated in the opinion of the Council of State, a number of the provisions contained merely extend the measures taken previously during the first phase of the health crisis. Recall the reduction of the VAT rate on masks and hydro-alcoholic gel, the adoption of a consumer cheque, the exemption of voluntary overtime for workers in the so-called crucial sectors, the extension of the temporary increase in the rate of reimbursement of integration income by the State vis-à-vis CPAS or the extension of the Compensation Fund for Victims. I shall therefore be quite brief in my speech, Madam President; but I would like to turn to a particular measure, which concerns the exemption of voluntary overtime. Colleagues, you will see that our group has tabled a similar bill, co-signed with the cdH group, which has joined this bill, and I thank him for that. As the proposal was submitted shortly before the second confinement, it was limited to the exemption of voluntary overtime for health care professionals. However, given the resurgence of the epidemic and the second wave that has hit our country, it seems to us perfectly logical and justified to extend this measure to all the so-called crucial sectors. We will, of course, support this measure, which is fully in line with an extension of the measures adopted during the first phase of the epidemic. Another point I would like to focus on is the temporary increase in the rate of reimbursement of integration income by the State to CPAS. The measure, extended by the bill, provides that CPAS will be able to receive an additional subsidy of 15% of the subsidized amount of integration income. The health and economic crisis of the covid leads to a significant increase in the number of applicants for integration income. However, I do not know whether the question was asked and received an answer during the discussions in committee, and I would therefore like to ask it again. My group is concerned about a possible shortfall in the percentage of the additional subsidy of 15%. Does this 15% supplementary grant correspond to a 15% increase in the number of beneficiaries during the crisis? In our view, and according to information obtained from some CPAS, the increase in the number of applicants would be more than 15% since the crisis began. Similarly, with regard to the Victims Compensation Fund, which had been set up by the Royal Decree of Special Powers, our group would like to reiterate its full support. I wonder, however, on a specific point. You are aware that some patients suffer from what is called "long covid". On the other hand, many covid-contaminated people are likely to have long-term sequelae, resulting from covid-19 contamination. In such a case, in the event of the death of a beneficiary of the Fund from contamination of the covid-19 occurring after the date of March 31, 2021, the end date of the extension of the measure, will his or her rightholders still be able to benefit from the Fund? This seems important to us, given that we do not currently know the long-term consequences of covid contamination. Colleagues, you will have understood this: as during the exercise of special powers, our group continues and will continue to support all measures to mitigate the health, socio-economic and financial consequences of this pandemic. We will therefore vote for this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u106	Madam President, I will be very brief, but I can only stress two things because it is important that they are included in the Integrated Report. The first is about the tax shelter and the second is about the catering industry. First of all, what's wrong with the tax shelter? There used to be a circular on this, now there is a bill. There is a certain passage that states that cultural broadcasts can use the tax shelter if they stream their concerts live. There's a lot of discussion going on about what that live streaming is right. The Council of State has been asked for an opinion on this matter and the explanatory memorandum states that it must be an immediate and direct transmission. It is now being filmed and immediately goes on the internet and it has to be offered at a fee. If those conditions are met, the tax shelter can be used. The problem is, however, that this is particularly difficult. Technically it requires a very stable internet connection, it is also very expensive, there are particular risks and costs associated with its organisation. So it's very complex and very expensive. How does the sector deal with this? He makes a slightly less strict definition of live streaming: what takes place can be edited briefly and then uploaded on the right platform and all that has to be done within 24 hours. So it's not quite live, but it's as good as live. Of course, it cannot be the intention to upload last year's broadcast and then use the tax shelter, but the industry is asking for a little flexibility to record something and to put it on the internet a few hours later and to use the tax shelter for that purpose. Today there is a discussion as to whether that can be done. If you read the explanatory statement, you can't actually do that. The text should not be amended accordingly. If the Finance Minister simply states here that it is being applied in a slightly more flexible way, that would be huge support for the sector. Building just a little bit of pragmatism would be a huge support. I think that Mr Piedboeuf will certainly support that proposal, because it is one of the issues he is very close to. However, it is not a fundamental change. My second point concerns the catering industry. Mrs Vanrobaeys spoke about all the measures that have been extended, but one was not renewed. There was also a reduction in the VAT rate for the catering industry to 6%. The catering industry was able to make use of this in the summer, when it was allowed to be open. Afterwards, the catering industry is closed again and it still is. Looks like it's gonna take a while. The Prime Minister said that the catering industry will certainly not open before the beginning of February. I do not want to comment on this, we will have to wait and see, but in any case the measure of 6% VAT will not be extended. That is the only measure that has not been extended. We discussed this in committee. A few months ago there was a majority in favour of this, but with the new government that is no longer the case, certainly not now. Maybe that majority can still get there. In committee, the Minister said that I applauded the fact that the VAT story might be parked, but that instead there would be a specific package of support for the catering industry. So it's not like they wouldn't get anything because they're not in here. The Minister also stated: "The Deputy Prime Minister has stated that, in the context of the development of the aid package, the government has decided to approve an additional package of aid for the catering industry as soon as there is an overview of the reopening." The government has therefore agreed to approve an additional aid package and will do so before the catering industry reopens. That is what the report says. Can you repeat that in plenary, Minister, so that it is clear to everyone? You'll say you've already said that, but I'm asking that because there's an interview in Time today... (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u107	I'm asking because there's an interview in De Tijd today with Secretary of State for Budget, Eva De Bleeker. I quote from this: 'I wonder if you will still have discipline in the budget, because the atmosphere seems to be that the crane remains open now'. Mrs De Bleeker said: "On 6 November, the last package of 38 aid measures was knocked off within the government, and that is the end of it for the time being. There is currently consensus in the government that the last package we are proposing is balanced and strong enough and that the crane cannot remain open." If one reads that, one could read that there will be no specific support package for the catering industry. I assume that this is not the case, because it can also be read more flexibly, but I would just like to have some certainty about it. Can you confirm that what you have said in committee is still true and that this is equally true of the statement by the Secretary of State for the Budget and that there should therefore be no contradiction? There is certainly a reason to ask that question again. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u108	Madam President, I just want to say that the framework is made. It's done right. There are some adjustments to be made but they can be done by circular. So we will have an opportunity to discuss it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u109	Madam President, given the context and the time, I did not intend to intervene on the substance. As far as the substance is concerned, I refer to the statement made by our colleague, Sophie Thémont, in committee. On the other hand, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak to a technical problem which occurred after the adoption of the text in committee. This concerns an amendment which was introduced by Mrs Thémont et al., Amendment No 10, and which was intended to repair an omission or rather a missing provision in the original text which had been pointed out by the social partners. What is it? In short, this is the case of a worker with a disabled child who, because of health measures, is unable to receive the usual care and services, whether at home or in institutions. The amendment says that, in this situation, this worker will be able to benefit from temporary corona unemployment for force majeure. What's the technical problem? Mrs Thémont et al.'s amendment amends the new Article 55 (i.e. after the numbering) to paragraph 1(2). The problem is that the text which has been published has, unfortunately, unduly deleted the other provisions of this paragraph, namely 1°, 3° and 4°, which was not the intention and decision of the committee. I quote what the amendment clearly provided in its justification: "The adaptation of the draft article envisaged by this amendment is limited to this specific adaptation (i.e., 2°). No other changes are made." But that is not what is on our table and that we must adopt. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore propose that you make a technical correction, i.e. to incorporate the missing parts of this paragraph (1°, 3 and 4°) into the text which we are going to adopt earlier. I contacted the secretariat to ensure that the interpretation and analysis were correct, which was confirmed to me by the secretariat. I also mean that the working conditions in which we all have to evolve, both Members of Parliament, House staff, employees, ministers and their teams, are not easy in the current context. These are not optimal working conditions, which can bring squalls in certain circumstances. In this case, I think that is one, but we can also fix it in this House. I also refer to the reporter, Mr Anseeeuw, who may be able to confirm that, if he so wishes. Madam President, I propose this technical correction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u110	Madam President, I have looked at what Mr Delizée has said. What he's saying is true. I checked the report. I have also looked at the various amendments and the text itself. As a reporter, I can only confirm that a technical correction is appropriate here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u111	Madam President, Mr Leysen has just said here that we have taken a whole package of measures to make it clear that the house has been decorated. In fact, the Planning Bureau and the National Bank of Belgium have confirmed this. These measures must protect our economy and our people, but of course they are also temporary and targeted. That is an immediate answer to many of the questions that have been asked here today. They are temporary because we need to help people and businesses during this crisis and targeted because, of course, we want them to reach the right target group. Mrs Cornet spoke of a very clearly defined period of payment in respect of overtime. The very fact that it is clearly defined shows that it is a temporary arrangement in the context of the fight against the covid pandemic. Mrs Samyn asked why the approach could not become even more individual. We must safeguard the economy and employment as much as possible, because we cannot support growth with bankrupt companies. That is why we must act as carefully as possible. At the first wave there was a somewhat broader approach but the second wave has been much more focused, with better aligned conditions. Mr Colebunders, overtime is, of course, limited to the duration of the corona crisis and applies only to the crucial sectors. It is not possible to explicitly add a whole zip exclusion to each line. Because of the very limited duration, this would be extremely impractical and even unfeasible administratively. The agreement is also an implementation of the social partners' agreements, which do not contain any such clauses. Mrs Matz, I refer again to my reply to your statement in committee. I repeat it. It is true that this incentive is a gross and not a net premium. This decision was taken jointly by the government with the agreement of the trade unions. A memorandum of understanding has been concluded to this end. A conscious choice was made for a gross premium. After all, we must ensure that there is no discrimination with other employees in other sectors who continued to work during the first and second lockdowns. This way of working guarantees the legal certainty of the premium. After all, it is not excluded that other sectors pay bonuses to their employees to thank them for their performance during the coronavirus crisis. They could not then benefit from the exemption. The fact that the incentive premium for carers is exempt from tax must therefore be fully justified, which is not obvious. Regional premiums for health personnel are not covered by the exemption because they are not linked to the economic consequences of the covid pandemic. Mr Loones made comments on the tax shelter. The temporary tolerance has indeed come to allow the stage works financed by the taxshelter to take place without the delivery of a taxshelterattest, which would be refused because of the absence of live audience. There is some confusion about the idea of direct streaming without any interruption of implementation. The streaming must therefore take place without interruption and it concerns the display of the integral performance as if there is a live audience in the room. That is the essential condition. If there is any delay in the transmission for technical reasons or for reasons of quality of images, stability or synchronization of image and sound, this shall not prevent it. The interpretation of "as good as live" does not mean live, but does mean: as if it is an integral performance. I would also like to come back to the point about the support package for the catering industry. We have indeed taken a package of measures, to which the Secretary of State referred. It is the last package for the time being, but we can stress the word for the time being in that statement, because it was agreed at that time which sectors still need our support after the measures have been completed. Once we have a look at the reopening of the catering industry, we still have to support this important sector. At the committee meeting, I said that it is actually a little pointless to reduce VAT before this economic activity is restarted. The catering industry may not open until, for example, February, so a VAT reduction is pointless at the moment. In the government we have also agreed to take one coherent package of measures as soon as the catering industry can reopen. I can assure you that we will do all we can to support the catering sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u112	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u113	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1674/8) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1674/8) The bill has 62 articles. The draft law contains 62 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u114	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. In this case, I would point out that the technical amendment will be incorporated into the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u115	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u116	Madam President, I am fortunate to be the rapporteur of this text. This project introducing a single advance on the costs of managing social insurance funds for self-employed workers subsequently became, through a change of title, the bill introducing various measures in favour of the self-employed in the context of the covid crisis. This bill was urgently received in plenary on 3 December and was therefore discussed on 11.14 and 15 December in the Social Affairs Committee. First, the commission heard Minister Clarinval's introductory statement. The Minister recalled the essential role of social insurance funds in assisting self-employed people. These funds experienced a decrease in their income due to carry-overs and exemption from contributions. The aim of this bill was, on the one hand, to ensure the continuity of their services to the self-employed and, on the other hand, that these funds are not obliged to pass on these costs to the self-employed. The bill introduces an advance of 35 million. The amount allocated to each fund shall be calculated by INASTI. This amount will be reimbursed in 2021 and 2022. A count will be made in January 2023. In the general discussion, all speakers stressed the importance of supporting insurance funds. The members of the commission asked the Minister about the amounts that would be recovered, the terms of payment and the actual payment of the bridge fee in recent months. The Minister provided all the clarifications in his response. During the discussion of the articles, Messrs. Bombled et al. tabled Amendments Nos 1 to 6 aimed at temporarily relaxing certain conditions and arrangements for granting bridge rights and introducing pension assimilation. These are the temporary modification of the conditions for access to the traditional bridge right for starters, to allow the cumulation of the bridge right with other replacement income, to assimilate for the pension the quarters of the bridge right, to extend the period of application for the classical bridge right. It is stated that the social partners have given a positive opinion on the text, which responds to their requests. The members of the committee expressed that the provisions were positive. Ms. Samyn and Ms. Fonck added that, for a number of independents, these measures are too late. The Minister responded to questions on cost and contact skills and announced amendments to expand the categories of beneficiaries. Mr Bombled then tabled Amendments Nos 7 to 11. The author explained that these amendments provide for the introduction of a new bridge right of crisis that replaces existing arrangements. First, it has two pillars. The first pillar establishes a temporary crisis measure for all self-employed workers who have had to stop their activities completely. It is therefore the relay of the double right bridge. The second pillar is a temporary support measure for all self-employed workers who, as a result of the crisis, face a loss of at least 40% of turnover. Secondly, these amendments also provide for a financial benefit for self-employed persons who are forced to stop their activities completely because they are quarantined or in isolation. Finally, the amendments provide a benefit for self-employed persons who have to stop their activities in order to care for a child who has been quarantined or in solitary confinement. The presentation of these amendments was very late even if a draft had been sent for information purposes; the final version of the amendments was provided at the meeting. In the course of the interventions, the following elements were discussed: the fact that the analysis was difficult; the relevance of these measures; the question of complementary self-employed persons; and, finally, the fact that certain professions have not been able to exercise fully in recent months. An amendment was therefore tabled by Mrs Fonck. It aims to provide a retroactive effect for the second pillar for the last quarter of 2020. The votes were as follows. N-VA and Vlaams Belang voted against the provisions that grant the King a delegation to extend the effect of provisions, or provide for retroactive effect. Mrs Fonck's amendment was rejected by two votes to 11, with three abstentions. For the rest, the articles and amendments, as well as the whole text by nominating vote, were adopted unanimously by the 16 members present. This is my report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal has changed its form considerably in committee, as the reporter has just mentioned. The original intention of the text was to provide a one-off advance on the management costs of the social insurance funds for self-employed persons. There were good reasons for that. On the one hand, there were fewer revenues as a result of additional requests for exemption or deferment of payment. On the other hand, there was much more work and there were many more dossiers to deal with. And so, indeed, things had to be adapted. The impact of the combination of more expenditure and less revenue was estimated at 51 million euros. And so, with this law, an advance of EUR 35 million is paid. The question is, of course, how much of that advance will eventually be recovered, because we will undoubtedly have to take into account many bankruptcies and defaults next year. It goes without saying, however, that we support the advance system. The proper functioning of these funds is vital for our self-employed. Of course, more is needed for self-employed people who really need support and who have so far fallen apart. For example, there are a lot of self-employed people who only started shortly before the corona crisis and therefore cannot claim the right to bridge, even if they were not allowed to continue working. Either they have not provided sufficient self-employment benefits and/or have not contributed sufficiently to benefit from bridging rights from April 2020, or they are still entitled to another replacement income, but their new self-employment has greatly reduced that replacement income. Anyone entitled to another replacement income generally loses the right to a bridging right. At the same time, it is essential that these self-employed workers remain covered for health care, sickness benefits and the building up of pension rights. The rescue buoy that has been in front of these self-employed workers for the past period is much needed and we fully support it. It is therefore also good that the conditions for access to the right of bridging are temporarily relaxed for start-ups, including a temporary derogation from the ban on overlapping with replacement income for those self-employed workers. We are, in principle, opposed to a combination of benefits, especially as soon as the cumulative effect is that the amount paid is higher than the normal benefit. This is not, however, the case here, because the accumulation is effectively limited to the amount of the bridging allowance, which should have been the case in the case of employee benefits. But what isn't, of course, can still come. We do indeed fully support these measures. The only issues with which we disagree, and the reporter has correctly indicated this, are the extension by royal decision and all that has to do with retroactivity. It is, however, a good thing that this solution is now available for start-ups, who have fallen between shores and ships and have been struggling for months. Indeed, this solution is not a day too early and is certainly not a luxury.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u118	I will intervene surgically, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u119	Excellent!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u120	I would just like to point out that, of course, what is about supporting and adapting to the specific situation of the self-employed is an objective that Ecolo-Groen fully supports. Adapting to the particular situation of starters can help a lot of people. Improving pension entitlements is an excellent thing. Adapting to reality, I said. I would like to draw attention to the complementary self-employed. There is scope for examining and dealing with the fate of complementary self-employed workers in this crisis in a very specific way. When their complementary self-employment constitutes a significant part of their income, special consideration must be given to ways of helping them. I will conclude by stressing, as I did earlier, the value of supporting parents who are independent, especially for the care of children. We therefore fully support these provisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u121	It's actually surgical!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u122	Madam President, I would like to say that, since the beginning of confinement, Parliament and the government have been very careful to try to help the self-employed in a very difficult situation. In particular, a new pillar of workers' social law, that of bridge law, has been developed. It was previously quite unknown and little used, while since then it has helped hundreds of thousands of self-employed workers. We therefore support the financial strengthening of the aid from the social insurance funds, which have done a huge amount of work in record time to help the self-employed concerned. We're talking about hundreds of thousands of cases in total. We support the temporary relaxation of the traditional bridge law but also this reform of the bridge law of crisis, as Mrs Cornet has pointed out for the starters. In this regard, Minister, good information will have to be provided to all recipients of this provision. Finally, the reform of the crisis bridge law by 1 January 2021 is very important. Finally, the aim is to tighten the social safety net in order to move towards a more equitable and transparent system. There will be two very distinct pillars: a pillar for the self-employed who are forced to completely interrupt their activities and a pillar for those who can demonstrate a 40% decrease in their turnover It is really a system that is easily readable for everyone. Without going into detail, I would just like to say that social security is the main pillar that allows us to go through this crisis and that enables our society to stand up. In any case, we will support all these measures in favour of self-employed workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u123	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, a few minutes ago we had the opportunity to discuss the support measures in the context of the covid crisis. One category of workers was not included in this package: these are the self-employed who are the subject of a bill that we are now dealing with. Indeed, since the beginning of the crisis, the self-employed have suffered severely from measures taken to limit the spread of coronavirus. In the first wave, apart from the crucial sectors, the self-employed active in the so-called non-essential sectors – and we know how hard this terminology is to hear – were forced to stop any activity. The Horeca sector has been and still is the most emblematic non-essential sector, but alongside it, hundreds of sectors have also been affected by the crisis. Of course, we are thinking of the cultural and event sectors, as well as the fairgrounds, hairdressers and all the so-called contact trades, florists, toiletters, clothing, decoration and furnishing shops, and all these other traders, of which we hear less talk, but who are just as resistant to the crisis. In the first wave, the government had taken measures to help these independents overcome the crisis, and in addition to the measures to postpone or exempt social contributions, other measures were implemented, such as the postponement of the payment of the social contribution or the postponement of VAT. The most emblematic measure is undoubtedly the use of bridge law for all those self-employed who, overnight, have found themselves without any activity and, therefore, without any professional income. Mr. Minister of the Independents, you will agree that we would all have liked to boast and raise awareness of the bridge law mechanism in a different context. All these aid measures have been extended and in the second wave, the bridge right has even been doubled for sectors which have once again been forced to close by a decision of the authorities. This arrangement was extended until the end of January 2021. Note that alongside the self-employed and the decisions taken by the government or Parliament, a third actor has been and is always essential to help make the connection between the former and the latter! Of course, I want to talk about social insurance funds. During this crisis, social insurance funds were particularly sought out. Their workload has grown exponentially. In order to meet this workload, insurance funds had to bear additional investments and operating expenses, while at the same time they suffered a decrease in the cash flow of management costs resulting from carry-overs and exemption from contributions. The financial consequences for insurance funds are relatively significant. We are talking about a deficit of more than EUR 51 million, which represents a third of their budget. In order to assist them and to enable them to continue to carry out their tasks, the Government has therefore decided to grant an advance to insurance funds up to EUR 35 million, which will be charged to the overall management of the self-employed. If the caisses wish to make use of this advance, they undertake in return not to increase the percentages of operating costs in 2021 and 2022, due to the impact of the crisis of the coronavirus. This advance to the social insurance funds has two objectives. The first is to ensure that this exceptional situation does not put these actors in financial difficulty with, as a corollary, future difficulties in fulfilling their missions in as effective and agile a manner as demonstrated since the beginning of the pandemic. The second objective is, therefore, to avoid the need for the funds to bear these additional costs and collateral effects on the self-employed through increases in the rate of management costs over the next few years. Between 2021 and 2022, INASTI will re-evaluate this advance and social insurance funds will have to repay gradually. A final count will take place in January 2023. This is the first measure covered by this bill. The second measure is based on a reform of the bridge law in the event of bankruptcy or cessation of business. As we know, self-employed workers have a bridge right, the conditions of which are reflected in the Act of 22 December 2016 establishing a bridge right in favour of self-employed workers. This is the structural arrangement that already existed before the crisis. This structural system provides social protection for self-employed workers who cease or interrupt, or who are forced to cease or interrupt, their professional activity in a number of very specific situations, be it bankruptcy, collective debt settlement, forced interruption or economic difficulties. In order to benefit from the traditional bridge right, the self-employed must comply with a series of very strict cumulative conditions in respect of taxableness, payment of contributions, residence and cessation or interruption of activity. The bill we are dealing with is intended to introduce a few flexibilities to this system for self-employed workers for whom bankruptcy or cessation of business is inevitable given the current difficult economic situation. It is indeed important that these independents have access to the traditional bridge law. However, in some situations it may be difficult, if not impossible, to move from the temporary crisis measure to the traditional bridge law, due to stricter terms and conditions. Certain provisions of the traditional bridge law should therefore be temporarily relaxed in order to eliminate these difficulties. These are some temporary changes in terms of conditions of access to this traditional gateway for interruptions and cessations that took place in the period from 1 April 2020 to 31 March 2021. The amendments and flexibilities aim first of all to give the self-employed at the beginning of the activity, i.e. the starters, temporary access to the traditional bridge right. Indeed, in order to also allow independent starters to benefit from the bridge right in the event of bankruptcy in this difficult period, it is proposed to temporarily relax the conditions of access for this group. [[(...): (...)]] Some speakers spoke 20 times in 24 hours. I can intervene twice, excuse me! I'm not targeting anyone! At the same time, everything I say is true and you will all vote for it. Secondly, the amendments are intended to allow for a cumulation of the bridge right with other replacement income under social security up to a certain ceiling. Finally, the easing measures also aim to improve the maintenance of social rights during the period of benefit from the traditional bridge right, by assimilated for pension periods of bridge right granted for interruptions and terminations which took place in the period from 1 April 2020 to 31 March 2021 with a maximum of four quarters. A third measure is aimed at implementing a new bridge right of crisis, as some of you called for. This new crisis bridge right replaces the existing bridge right, both the current bridge right and the recovery support right. This new scheme, as reported, is based on two pillars: a first pillar establishes a temporary crisis measure for all self-employed workers, carers and assisting spouses who are forced to stop their self-employment entirely because of the health measures taken by the public authorities. A second pillar establishes a support measure for all self-employed workers, carers and assisting spouses who, as a result of the crisis, face a considerable loss of turnover and income, regardless of the sector in which they are active. However, there is a threefold condition: a loss of at least 40% of turnover; the payment of social contributions; in the same calendar month, the person cannot have received the same financial benefit applicable under the first pillar. I will conclude... with applause, ladies and gentlemen, who have warmly applauded me and thank you for the passing, that this government is doing everything possible to help the independents overcome this crisis and to ensure that they have sufficient income as long as the situation is not restored. One can always compare with what is done elsewhere or criticize what is wrong. My group and I welcome these measures put in place to try to help as many self-employed people as possible and, with your applause, we say that we will of course support them. [[Applause from the European Democratic Group]] )
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u124	Madam President, after the previous three speeches, you have made someone happy by finally leaving a Limburger to the floor. So he can finally rest for a while. I am glad that I still have the opportunity to intervene on this law in this hemisphere. I shall not be as quick as the previous three speakers because I would like to dwell on the rather separate way in which these aid measures have been driven by Parliament in a week. I could not even attend the final debate in committee this week. However, I have some reservations about this law. Of course we can agree with the support to the social insurance institutions for the self-employed. All in all, this is an obvious measure. A smoother right of bridging is, of course, a step forward, especially in this second wave. Who knows what else will follow. There will be more protection for the self-employed. That's good. However, it must be the intention that no one falls out of the boat at all. Even with this alignment to the right of bridging, far too many self-employed people still run the risk of not getting any support at all. I am thinking, for example, of the self-employed with a large turnover loss of less than 40%. They are often the same people who have received very little support in this crisis. I am also thinking of the self-employed in the secondary sector and the parents with positively tested children who have to stay home for seven days. Yesterday I heard about the Belgian self-employed working across the border. There are a lot of self-employed people living in Belgium, but working across borders who do not receive intervention in the Netherlands, but also in Belgium. Shouldn't they be getting that support from somewhere? I understand that the government imposes conditions, but I still find it very difficult to hear the testimony of the people who are forgotten. A very good comrade of mine has been 'garçon' for fifteen years and has worked his whole life day and night. On April 1st he would open his own business, at 6,500 euros rent per month, just before the first corona golf. He has not yet received a single euro because he cannot present anything. The man now sells coffee in cardboard cups to passers-by to get just a few euros. What do we do with all these people? What's the government's message to all these people? They shouldn't be knocking on the door at the OCMW, should they? They've already tried that, but if the wife has any income, they can forget it. The new second pillar in the event of a turnover loss of more than 40% is a step forward, but the aid does not really take account of fixed costs. That can be very different from one case to another. I have been able to gain some experience in this area myself in recent years. The fixed-cost invoices continue to enter: the rental or payment of the commercial property, insurance, the 'dish of electronic payments', Sabam, heating, electricity. What about the efforts on the other side of the invoices? Very often they are larger fish, such as insurers, energy suppliers, companies of the payment terminals. As a government, we have to help our self-employed, but not only of course. The private sector also has a role to play. Besides, I really want to hammer the administration. Rules of administration. I don't have to explain that to a liberal minister. What initiatives will the Minister take to avoid administrative inconvenience? I have heard very few answers to that in committee. Does the government ensure smooth application procedures? Why wasn't there even more automation possible? Surely the cheaters can be picked out perfectly afterwards? By the way, does the government have enough information on this, or does the Minister want to provide additional staff for the pay-out services?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u125	I'll be brief, too. We should not repeat it; we have heard a very clear explanation here as to why it is all so important. I would like to join in a great deal of this. The self-employed have been severely affected by the crisis. The previous and this government therefore took very far-reaching support measures, which I will not repeat, but which are important for the self-employed. The social insurance funds are a very important link in the implementation of these measures. For example, the payout of the corona bridge law and the double bridge law passed thousands of files in a very short time. At the same time, they have less revenue because they can charge less management costs as a percentage of the contributions passed through them. The explanatory memorandum estimates the impact at EUR 51.1 million, about one third of the budgets of the social insurance funds. The problem of liquidity is therefore urgent. The measure proposed by the government here must ensure that these crucial players do not fall over at a difficult time such as the crisis today. I now come to the amendments. The period in which economic life has been severely disturbed as a result of the corona crisis and measures are being taken against the spread of the corona virus is increasing. Some sectors are directly affected, but we must also consider those sectors which are indirectly affected. Measures that allow self-employed people to survive this difficult period and be able to resume their activities quickly and without too much damage after the crisis are very useful and very necessary. In the event of such a crisis, the mantra which separates the chaff from the chaff from the chaff and which is now being kept alive by public aid, either poorly managed or non-viable, is no longer valid because of the long duration of this crisis. Self-employed people whose business would flourish under normal circumstances are now having a very difficult time. We therefore fully support the proposed package. We were very happy to sign it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u126	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be quite brief and concise. Of course, we support this draft law, which provides additional support for social security funds, which, like other governments and trade unions, are flooded with applications, and which extends the right of bridging. The draft law also covers more self-employed workers. Furthermore, I am particularly pleased that from 2021 onwards, the system will also be simplified with two pillars: a pillar for self-employed people who close down, and a pillar for, roughly formulated, self-employed people who suffer loss of turnover due to the health crisis. At the same time, I notice that many self-employed people are no longer seeing the forest through the trees. During the period between the committee meeting and the plenary sitting, I had another two independent hairdressers on the line, i.e. without a physical location, both of whom felt that they were not entitled to support, as they were not entitled to the Flemish nuisance premium. The problem is now in the various types of right of bridging, because we have always taken additional measures in the crisis, each with its own conditions and deadlines, with regional measures and other support measures on top of that. Especially in the area of income compensation, self-employed people often no longer know what they are entitled to. If a newspaper can create a simple online tool with all the support measures for the self-employed, then the government should be able to do better. Minister, you will inform the self-employed, but I think you really need to step up on this. The measures will only have an effect if they have real impact and if the benefits really come to the account of the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u127	Madam President, if the five minutes which are given to me are equivalent to Mr Bombled's speaking time, that is fine with me! Don't worry, I'll be really brief. Minister, the original purpose of the bill was to provide each social insurance fund with the opportunity to seek financial assistance to alleviate the impact of the covid crisis on its management budget. It suffers from lower revenue and rising expenditure. The financial intervention then takes the form of an advance which would be entirely paid out of the Welfare Fund and gradually recovered as the revenues of 2020 arrived, carried over to 2021. If a balance remains, it will be borne by INASTI. This is a measure that we can approve, minister. However, the new bridge right was supplemented by amendments. That is the justification for my intervention. Our concerns are not so much about the original amendments, aimed at easing access to bridge law for independent starters, which may have retroactive effect. In fact, they mainly concern the absence of such an effect for the other categories. This is how you introduce without retroactive effect a new second pillar of crisis bridge law. The latter, which the CDH had asked you to adopt urgently since the government took office, will only come into force from January 2021. As a result, it will not be able to assist independents who have been deprived of support since the beginning of the second wave. To justify this deficiency, you have invoked an insufficient budget. However, we find it difficult to understand why a budget would be available for independent starters, and not for those who, especially since this second wave, have not been able to benefit from this right bridge of crisis. In a question-and-answer session, I asked you about this and wished to draw your attention to the despairing screams of those independents who pass through the meshes of the net. It was in the wake of a tragic event in Liège. You had told me that you were aware that many of them were indeed passing between these meshes and that you were in the process of correcting them so that it would not happen again. This bridge right was supposed to have a more generalistic scope. If it does happen, it still has holes. If you're not a starter and you don't fall into a category that benefits from the bridge right, then you're still well married! We are therefore resubmitting our amendment, which is supported by the Union of the Middle Classes, with a view to returning the scheme to 1 November. The delay in adopting this measure must be compensated by retroactive effect. We hope that you will then be able to join the tabling of this amendment, otherwise we will be forced to abstain on your text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u128	Madam President, like Mrs Cornet, I will be surgical. First of all, I would like to thank her for the good report she has presented to us in a comprehensive manner, recalling the various stages that have marked the drafting of this bill. I would also like to thank all the Members of the majority, of course, but also those of the opposition, for their constructive attitude in the work in committee. At the outset, I had announced that the deadlines were short and that the procedure was somewhat unusual. However, I appreciated everyone's constructive attitude, so that we were able to reach a successful conclusion on time, and I wanted to thank them for that. Several issues were discussed. First of all, that of the supplementary self-employed was mentioned by Mrs Cornet and other Members. As a reminder, complementary independents can access the bridge right, provided they have contributed a little bit. Their access is limited to half a passerelle if they have contributed on the basis of an income equivalent to 7,000 euros. Beyond €14,000, they are entitled to a full bridge. I'm talking about the gross income contribution. Complementary self-employed persons may benefit from these categories of bridge right. However, let's be honest, most of the time, the independents do not contribute enough. Just recently, an independent told me to contribute only 25 euros a month. Obviously, under such conditions, replacement income is not available. In principle, a supplementary self-employed person is already engaged in a main occupation which brings him income. However, the bridge right is supposed to compensate for an income that has disappeared. In short, the balance is maintained. Having said that, I agree with the proposal for an evaluation of the scheme in the coming months to examine these thresholds, which may be difficult to reach. Anyway, for now, it's premature. Moreover, the social partners have not requested such a reassessment. They have made this very clear. Secondly, Mr Delizée, I agree with you that the independents will have to be informed. Ms. Vanrobaeys also indicated that it was particularly difficult to convey these messages to the independents, as they too often stop reading information that may prove to be wrong. Mrs Vanrobaeys, you mentioned the example of hairdressers at home. They are entitled to the double right bridge, without any problem. Maybe a Flemish bonus forbids it. If that is the case, they commit an amalgam by believing that they have no right to anything. This is typically the example we have observed in some dramatic situations. People think that they are not entitled to anything, either because they have been misinformed or because they themselves have not inquired. That is why, Mr Delizée, you are right: we must provide important information work. Through the insurance funds, I sent all the independents a summary sheet of all the aids to which they are entitled. However, I am not sure that they have all read this appendix. Therefore, a great deal of work still needs to be done in order for them to become aware of all the aids to which they are entitled. Mr Colebunders, I do not know if your friend is entitled to nothing, because it is difficult for me to react to a particular case. First of all, you should advise him to apply to his social insurance fund. I don't know what he's affiliated with, but he has to turn to her anyway. If he does not receive a satisfactory response, he can still apply to INASTI. Finally, if the situation is really complicated, he can also always write to my firm. We will therefore be able to examine his case. In any case, the general rule is that he should be informed by his caisse or, failing that, by his accountant. Normally, with the 40% rule, we will expand to all the liberal professions, to all the self-employed who were forgotten. With the passing of this law, no independent person will be forgotten. Let it be clear! If they have lost 40% of their turnover, they will all have access to substantial aid. Mr Colebunders, the fixed costs are obviously the most complicated, but there are also aids to meet these fixed costs – not in the head of the Minister for the Independents, but my colleagues, both in the ONSS, in VAT and in social contributions, have made available facilities, carry-overs, possibilities for deferred reimbursement, and there are also regional aids depending on where you live that target part of the fixed costs. It is true that these aids are variable and sometimes not sufficient, but there is still a significant financial mobilization in the head of the federal and regional governments. Administrative overload, you're right. In the new system, care was taken to have a very simple system, easy to understand: - 40% turnover compared to the same month of 2019. By the end of January 2021, you must have lost 40% of sales compared to the end of January 2019. If you have a certificate from your accountant or proof of your accounting in support, you will automatically be entitled to the simple gateway, which is a very simple mechanism. However, an anti-abuse mechanism is in place to prevent abuse, but this system is quite simple and easily understood by everyone. Mr Prévot, with regard to the retroactive effect, one of the amendments corrects with retroactive effect a potential trap for starters. On the other hand, there is no retroactive effect in the scheme for the 360 000 self-employed who will have access to pillar 2, i.e. those who will have a 40% decrease in their turnover. It's a new right. The government decided on a major enlargement, starting on 1 January 2021, so that no one would be forgotten. You are asking for a retroactive effect from October onwards. It was not the agreement that came about, both for complex reasons of backwardness – retroactive effects are always complicated – and for budgetary reasons. Unfortunately, it is not possible to support this amendment, in any case the government does not want it to. However, as of 1 January 2021, all these independents will be able to access the aid. Unfortunately, as the crisis will not end on 1 January 2021, the self-employed will be able to use the new system next year. Remember that we also extended the double bridge for all areas that are closed. I think our device is now complete, just and it makes sure no one passes through the meshes of the net. Madam President, I think I have answered all the questions asked to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u129	Minister, I quoted that example of a comrade to give a practical example. A starter who would open his business on April 1st, what will he get? It cannot, of course, produce invoices relating to the loss of income, since there was no income in March and February of course. What will these people get? What support will they receive? After all, they pay as much rent as someone who's had a business for ten years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u130	You're talking about a starter that opened in April. So he didn't start at the beginning of March, if I understand correctly. And you have to know that the first wave was in March. It is true that some independents anticipated the opening of shops. There are support mechanisms for starters, but they must have contributed at least two quarters. There must be at least six months of contributions. Here, in this case, it had not yet opened. This is a specific case. I think he needs to ask his insurance fund. There is a way, in some cases, to calculate otherwise when a fee has been incurred, to calculate a theoretical income based on going back three years. It is a rather complicated system that needs to be examined according to the individual's accounting situation. Here, in this case, he does not yet have any accounts because he had not yet opened. It's not really a starter, but someone who hadn't started yet. It's a little more complicated than for someone who started two months ago and had to stop. It is difficult to talk about this specific case without knowing the exact situation of the person. Let this person move to the caisse, to the INASTI, and at worst to my office, so that we can examine his situation in detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u131	You have not kept your commitment, minister, and that is what saddens me. You committed yourself, in plenary, to ensure that no independent person could pass through the meshes of the net. I must emphasize your honesty. You recognize today that this objective has not been achieved. In fact, the retroactive effect cannot cover all types of situations, even though at the same time the provisional appropriations for October, November and December are also decided. You had every opportunity to adjust them, but you, too, made a good admission of transparency, like the Secretary of State earlier: "I will, but I cannot." You made it clear that you did not have an agreement from your government partners to allow this retroactivity and the budget it required. I regret this, because even if we are to welcome the progress that the text represents in relation to a whole series of situations that exist today, there are still people who will not be taken into account despite your commitment not to leave anyone in doubt or on the side of the way, as regards the benefit of the aid you are granting. That is why we wanted to work constructively by being the relay of an actor who should yet have your ear, the UCM. We wanted to allow this validation. But I note that this is not the government's will.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u132	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u133	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1667/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1667/5) The title has been amended by the committee in "Bill establishing various measures for the self-employed in the context of the VOCID-19 crisis". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft legislation introducing different measures in favour of self-employed persons in the context of the COOVID-19 crisis." The bill has 21 clauses. The draft law has 21 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u134	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. Ladies and gentlemen, before I begin the next point, I would like to inform you that you will receive an e-mail opening the third round of votes on the amendments to the texts we have just closed. Given the progress of the day or rather of the days as well as the late hour, I hope that we will have access to the votes fairly quickly. We will leave 20 minutes for the votes, on the understanding that the members who are not here are certainly connected remotely pending the end of our sitting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u135	The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u136	Madam President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this government is full of political renewal and a new political culture, but all the privileges of politicians are simply preserved. The gray policy is simply being continued. We have already seen this in the debate on the budget. Ministers still earn 10,000 euros net per month. Our amendment to halve that, you just voted away. The Flemish Interest and the N-VA also consider it normal that they earn so much. Former ministers, who are no longer required to do anything, continue to have two full-time employees for years to come. Our amendment to abolish it was also simply rejected by this majority. The previous government has already spent far too many millions on Cabinets, but you are adding EUR 10 million a year. And that's what you call political renewal. I was, however, hopefully looking forward to what that would mean. Not only words, but also actions. No old wine in new bags. We see the same thing in the House's budget. The salary of a Parliament is almost 8,000 euros per month. And that's not all. Here comes an expense of more... [[(Rummer]] ) I hear a bit of a moaning in the room: there's the PVDA again and everything. Maybe it is. I was wondering why the hemisphere doesn't have windows. But that's clear, that's so no one can see what's going on here. We're lucky, though. We have one window, in the ridge. The sky is the limit, but not for you. And that's not all. In addition, there is an additional cost allowance of more than EUR 2,000 per month. I'm still asking questions about that. You will also get a free laptop and even a free taxi home if the plenary is too long. But apparently you still need a heavy expense charge of over 2,000 euros. What's it for, anyway? I've been asking the question for over a year. For that cab driver's tip? I don't know. So you get 10,000 euros gross per month. Let's settle that for a second. 10,000 euros per month gross. Does anyone here know what the median wage is in Belgium? I'll tell you. 3.361 euros per month, September 2020 figures. So half of the people in this country earn less than 3.361 euros gross per month. And then it's just about the people who have a job, because otherwise it's even less. Raising minimum benefits to the poverty line was a policy of announcement. Do you think people think this is normal? I can tell you that this is not the case. How can you understand what your decisions mean for the lives of the working people? After all, you do not even feel the measures that affect people in their pockets. I am thinking of the index jump that the N-VA does know, the VAT on energy that increased to 21%, the benefits that are not raised to the poverty line and the wage bill. We at the PVDA live with an ordinary workman's wage, and I know that's what you're talking about. We know what it's like to be left at the end of a month's pay. In order to make policies for the people, as a representative of the people, we need to know that. Have you ever actually analysed what a representative of the people means? Maybe you should try that. We are tabling an amendment to halve MEPs' wages. It will then be 5,000 euros gross per month, which is still almost 2,000 euros more than the median of wages in Belgium. It's more than enough to live comfortably. We will see at the vote whether you are in favour of this renewal. The strongest example is that you will simply be paid the full pot when your mandate is over. If one sits long enough, one simply gets paid the EUR 10,000 for two years, one has to do nothing for that. A few years ago, you changed the Rules of Procedure, but the principle remains. Do you know what unemployment allowance someone gets who loses his job in the normal world? That's 65% of his salary in the first three months. Then that starts to sink and it keeps falling until one is at only 40 %. This amount is also calculated at a maximum wage of 2,700 euros gross. So ordinary working people get a maximum of 1,750 euros gross in the first three months and you just get 10,000 euros in the pocket for two years. It is clear that you are living on another planet. We have therefore tabled an amendment to simply abolish these fees. We want Members of Parliament to be given an ordinary employee statute. When your mandate's over, just quit like any ordinary person and find a new job. In the meantime, you will receive the same benefit as the normal people, done with the privileges. Then, of course, there are mega-subsidies for political parties. After Spain, Belgium is the highest in Europe. They are four times higher than in the Netherlands, a larger country than ours, with a better budget and better figures than ours. The Court's budget has already committed EUR 32 million for the political parties for 2021. Then there will also be almost EUR 10 million in group allowances for the political groups on top. So that's 42 million euros. That's just for the Federal Parliament. Through the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels Parliament, millions will of course be added. It just keeps going on and on and the innovation is there. Then a party such as the N-VA can submit a proposal in committee for the index jump. Let's face it, that's funny. The N-VA is the richest party of all, with more than 10 million euros per year. You're almost as rich as all the Flemish parties together. You attract more than all parties in the Netherlands. You're just speculating on the amount. Then you're gonna come down with an index jump and pretend that's gonna matter to that absurd system. You have 22 million euros in real estate, 12 million euros in investments. If your income, as the polls have shown in recent months, is really declining, you shouldn't be afraid. You make as much money with your real estate as with the dots. In addition, the name of the party may be retained, N-VA, the New Real Estate Alliance. We want the whole system to be reformed, parties to be given much less tax money and to count much more on their members, as the PVDA does and as they do in Germany. As long as it isn't, we can start cutting well in all the dotations. So today we are again proposing to halve the party figures and to halve the group subsidies. That's 20 million euros. After the vote you will see what remains of your political renewal. I can go on for a while, but I've been clear enough. The political renewal of this government is talk and that will last for four years. Half the MEPs' wages to a normal wage. Clear the scandalously high retirement allowances and give MEPs a normal statute. Half the amounts and half the subsidies to the political groups. Today we all received a beautiful Christmas card from the President of the Senate. There's a beautiful spell on it: Only in the darkness can you see the stars. Many of you will never see the stars.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u138	Mr Leysen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u139	Madam President, I will begin with a quote in German: "In der Kürze lies that Würze." Short and powerful. You can read my intervention on my website www.christianleysen.be. What is the report for the next point (No. I can only say, as Mr Flahaut said, that the services of the Chamber have done an excellent job. I refer to the website of the Chamber. [[Applause]] The applause is also for all those who have worked so hard in the past few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u140	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u141	The vote on the amendments, the 2019 accounts and the 2021 budgets of the House of Representatives and the political party endowment will take place at a later date. The vote on the amendments, the 2019 accounts and the 2021 budgets of the Chamber of Representatives and the donation to the political parties will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u142	The discussion is open. The meeting's open. Mr Leysen has just referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u143	The vote on the 2019 accounts, the adjustments to the 2020 budget and the 2021 budget proposals will take place at a later date. The vote on the 2019 accounts, the 2020 budgetary adjustments and the 2021 budget proposals will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u144	In accordance with article 6, paragraph 2, paragraph 3, of the Act of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia, the Chamber must proceed with the presentation of the members of the Federal Commission for the Control and Evaluation of the Application of the Euthanasia Act. In accordance with Article 6 (2), third paragraph, of the Law of 28 May 2002 on euthanasia, the Court is to propose the members of the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee on the application of the law on euthanasia. The current term of office of the members expires in April 2021. The term of office of Members shall expire in April 2021. The Commission shall consist of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternate members: - eight members are medical doctors, at least four of whom are lecturers or professors (emeritus) at a Belgian university; - four members are lecturers or professors (emeritus) of law at a Belgian university or lawyer; - four members come from circles dealing with the problem of patients with an incurable disease. The Commission shall consist of sixteen effective members and sixteen alternates: - eight members are doctors in medicine, at least four of whom are professors or (emeritus) professors at a Belgian university; - four members are teachers or (emeritus) professor of law at a Belgian university or attorney; - four members come from circles responsible for the problems of incurably ill patients. They shall be designated on the basis of their knowledge and experience in matters falling within the competence of the Commission. They shall be designated on the basis of their knowledge and experience in matters falling within the competence of the Commission. Members are appointed, with due regard for linguistic parity – each linguistic group with at least three candidates of each sex – and on the basis of pluralistic representation, by royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers, on a double list presented by the Chamber. Members shall be appointed in accordance with the linguistic parity, each language group having at least three candidates of each sex, and by a pluralist representation established by royal decree after consultation in the Council of Ministers, from a double list nominated by the Chamber. They are appointed for a renewable term of four years. They shall be appointed for a renewable period of four years. Candidates who have not been appointed as effective members shall be appointed as alternate members. Candidates who have not been appointed as effective members shall be appointed alternates. Since, at the time of the previous composition of the Federal Commission for the Control and Evaluation of Euthanasia, the Chamber had to issue several appeals to the candidates for the Belgian Monitor, the secretariat of the Commission has already requested that the procedure for the renewal of mandates be started. Since the Chamber had to publish several calls in the Belgian Official Journal at the time of the previous composition of the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee, the Commission Secretariat has already requested that the procedure for renewing the mandates be started. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 December 2020, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the terms of office of a member of the Federal Commission for the Control and Evaluation of Euthanasia. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 December 2020, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of member of the Federal Audit and Evaluation Committee euthanasia. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u145	The Chamber shall appoint the alternate members of the boards of directors of UNIA/MYRIA. The Chamber should designate the alternate members of the Boards of Directors of UNIA/MYRIA. Nominations were announced in plenary on 17 September 2020. Candidates were announced at the plenary session of 17 September 2020. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 December 2020, I propose that you make these appointments during the plenary meeting on 14 January 2021. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 15 December 2020, I propose that these appointments be made at the plenary session of 14 January 2021. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Monday 4 January 2021 until Thursday 14 January 2021 at 4 p.m. The ballot paper and the parliamentary document are available to them in the General Secretariat. - Members may vote from Monday 4 January 2021 until Thursday 14 January 2021 at 4 p.m. The ballot and the parliamentary document are available in the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. Members may choose to select the model list or to complete, by the name of each effective member, the name of an alternate. On the ballot, members will have the choice to put a cross on the model list or to enter the name of an alternate with each effective member. - The vote containing the ballot papers will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday, 14 January 2021. - The urn with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 14 January 2021. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u146	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the introduction of the bill on various provisions in the field of justice, No. 1696/1. The Government asked for the urgency statement, pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft law on various provisions relating to justice, No. 1696/1. I give the floor to the government to develop the emergency request. I give the floor to the Government to explain the urgency question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u147	Madam President, the government, in particular the Minister of Justice, is indeed calling for urgent consideration of a bill with various provisions in the area of justice. This bill was introduced in accordance with rule 51 of the House's Rules of Procedure and concerns several provisions whose entry into force is to take place as soon as possible. It provides for the adoption of emergency measures in the context of the implementation of the Regulation on the European Public Prosecutor's Office. This is Regulation 2017/1939. This is the transposition of Directive 2017/1371 of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 5 July 2017. This is the PIF Directive (protection of financial interests). The aim is to provide a legal basis for sending unsigned judgments by e-mail. The urgency of this bill is motivated by the fact that the new European Public Prosecutor's Office is due to enter into force in March 2021. Our legislation must therefore be adapted in time to ensure its proper functioning. As regards the transposition of the European PIF Directives, the deadline – July 6, 2019 – has already been exceeded. In the meantime, an infringement procedure has been initiated by the European Commission. Finally, very recently, on 3 December 2020, this procedure was closed. This does not, of course, exempt us from the obligation to transpose the provisions into our domestic law and to communicate them to the Commission as soon as possible. The immediate financial emergency may no longer be relevant, but the legal urgency still exists. The urgency is also justified by the fact that a legal basis must be provided for temporarily authorizing the sending of judgments not signed by e-mail, in order to limit the workload of the clerks until the measures intended to send judgments electronically can be developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u148	Thank you, Mr. Michel. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u149	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I also propose that you take into account and refer to the committee responsible: the motion for a resolution (Mr Koen Metsu) on the granting of short-stay visas to Kurdish combatants to receive medical care in Belgium, No 1704/1. I would also suggest that you consider and send it to the committee responsible: the motion for a resolution (Mr Koen Metsu) to grant a short-stay visa to Kurdish fighters for medical treatment in Belgium, No. 1704/1. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u150	Mr De Roover, you are asking for the urgency of the motion for a resolution No 1700 concerning the Brussels-Capital Region's plan to introduce smart kilometric charging in the Brussels metropolitan area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u151	Madam President, the Government of the Brussels-Capital Region intends to introduce a mileage tax in the metropolitan area of Brussels and intends to put the model to the vote in early 2021. We understand that even our good colleague Mr Laaouej, for example, has some doubts about the whole initiative. I am therefore convinced that everyone will support our request for urgency on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u152	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on the request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u153	This inquiry was developed in a public meeting of the Commission on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions on 8 December 2020. This interview was held at the public meeting of the Commission for Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions of 8 December 2020. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 51/1): - a motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr. Josy Arens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr. Nicolas Parent. Two motions were tabled (MOT No. 51/1): - a motion for a recommendation was tabled by Mr Josy Arens; - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Nicolas Parent. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u154	Madam President, thank you. bpost intends to remove a large number of controllers allowing transfers and withdrawal of account extracts. Most of the ATM machines covered by this redeployment plan are located in areas with low population density. The main arguments of bpost are that the mobile application will be improved and that the investments will allow the installation of 400 new devices. However, only one of these machines will remain accessible within 10 kilometres. In peripheral rural areas with a low population density, this is quite insufficient! Ten kilometers equivalent to fifteen minutes by car and one hour by bus. Most older people use bpost machines for their banking operations and do not necessarily have a smartphone or computer, or even a car. To remove this tool from the post offices, it is to remove a basic service that allows them to maintain their financial independence, their independence. In its sixth management contract, bpost undertakes to maintain at least three hundred ticket distributors in post offices and to guarantee their presence in municipalities where other financial institutions do not have them. However, there is no obligation in the current management contract regarding the presence of self-banks. During the debate on this subject in committee on 8 December, we were not satisfied with the response of the Minister for Public Enterprises, and we therefore tabled this motion for a recommendation. The question was raised as to why a simple and outright motion had been tabled, whereas the application had to meet the expectations of local agents. I have heard representatives from other political groups asking for exactly the same thing as Mr Arens, who is very attached to this motion for a recommendation. We therefore do not understand why the majority has put forward a simple motion on a service to the population, to all the communes, including in rural areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u155	Thank you. Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u156	Yes 77 Yes No. 53 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 130 Total The simple motion was adopted. Therefore, the motion for recommendation is over. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motion of recommendation lapses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u157	Vote on amendment No 3 by Marco Van Hees in table p. 55. (1675/2) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Marco Van Hees on table p. 55. (1675/2) Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u158	Yes 11 Yes Non 106 No. Abstensions 16 Abstentions Total 133 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on amendment No 4 of Marco Van Hees in table p. 55. (1675/2) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Marco Van Hees on table p. 55. (1675/2) Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u159	Yes 29 Yes Non 106 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 135 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on amendment No 1 by Wim Van der Donckt cs in table p. 73. (1675/2) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Wim Van der Donkt cs on table p. 73. (1675/2) Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u160	Yes 55 Yes Non 83 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on amendment No 5 of Marco Van Hees in table p. 73. (1675/2) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Marco Van Hees on table p. 73. (1675/2) Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u161	Yes 29 Yes Non 109 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 138 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Wim Van der Donckt cs in Table 77. (1675/2) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Wim Van der Donkt cs on table p. 77. (1675/2) Can we consider that the result of the vote on Amendment No 1 is valid for it? [[Oui]] May the result of the vote on Amendment No. 1 also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u162	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on amendment No 6 of Marco Van Hees in Table 77. (1675/2) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Marco Van Hees on Table p. 77. (1675/2) Can we consider that the result of the vote on Amendment No 5 is valid for it? [[Oui]] May the result of the vote on Amendment No. 5 also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u163	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u164	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u165	Yes 88 Yes Non 30 No. Abstensions 23 Abstentions Total 141 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the 2019 budget year accounts of the House of Representatives. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Chamber of Representatives for the financial year 2019. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u166	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u167	Accordingly, the House adopts the 2021 budget proposals of the House of Representatives. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals 2021 of the Chamber of Representatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u168	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u169	As a result, the House adopts the 2019 budget year's accounts of political party staffing. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts for the financial year 2019 of the donation to the political parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u170	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u171	Yes 104 Yes Non 15 No. Abstensions 22 Abstentions Total 141 Total As a result, the House adopted the 2021 budget proposals for political party staffing. Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals 2021 of the amount to be paid to the political parties. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u172	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u173	Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the accounts for the 2019 budget year of the Court of Auditors. Consequently, the Court of Auditors shall adopt the accounts of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u174	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u175	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2020 budget year of the Court of Auditors. Consequently, the Court of Auditors shall adopt the amendment of the budget of the Court of Auditors for the financial year 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u176	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u177	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the Court of Auditors' 2021 budget proposals. Consequently, the Court of Auditors' budget proposals 2021 are adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u178	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u179	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2019 budget year accounts of the Constitutional Court. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Constitutional Court for the financial year 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u180	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u181	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the Constitutional Court's 2021 budget proposals. Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals 2021 of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u182	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u183	Accordingly, the House adopts the 2019 budget year accounts of the Supreme Council of Justice. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the High Council for Justice for the financial year 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u184	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u185	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2021 budget proposals of the Supreme Council of Justice. Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals 2021 of the Supreme Court for Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u186	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u187	Accordingly, the House adopts the 2019 budget year accounts of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision for the financial year 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u188	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u189	As a result, the House adopted the adjustment of the budget for the 2020 budget of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services. Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the budget of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision for the financial year 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u190	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u191	Accordingly, the House adopted the 2021 budget proposals of the Standing Committee on the Control of Police Services. Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals 2021 of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u192	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u193	Accordingly, the House adopts the 2019 budget year accounts of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services for the financial year 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u194	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u195	Accordingly, the House adopted the 2021 budget proposals of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals 2021 of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u196	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u197	As a result, the House adopts the 2019 budget year accounts of the College of Federal Ombudsmen. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the College of Federal Ombudsmen for the financial year 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u198	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u199	Accordingly, the House adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2020 budget year of the College of Federal Ombudsmen. Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the budget of the College of Federal Ombudsmen for the financial year 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u200	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u201	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2021 budget proposals of the College of Federal Ombudsmen. Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals 2021 of the College of Federal Ombudsmen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u202	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u203	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2019 budget year accounts of the Data Protection Authority. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Data Protection Authority for the financial year 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u204	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u205	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2020 budget year of the Data Protection Authority. Consequently, the Court adopts the adjustment of the budget of the Data Protection Authority for the financial year 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u206	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u207	Yes 129 Yes Non 0 No. Abstensions 12 Abstentions Total 141 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the data protection authority's 2021 budget proposals. Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals 2021 of the Data Protection Authority. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u208	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u209	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u210	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2019 budget year accounts of the Commissions de nomination pour le notariat. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts for the financial year 2019 of the Appointment Committees for the notary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u211	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u212	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2020 budget year of the Commissions of Appointment for the Notariat. Consequently, the Court adopts the amendment of the budget for the financial year 2020 of the Appointment Committees for the Notarial Society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u213	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u214	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2021 budget proposals of the Commissions of Appointment for the Notariat. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the budget proposals 2021 of the Appointment Committees for the Notarial Society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u215	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u216	Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the accounts for the 2019 budget year of the BIM Commission. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the BIM Commission for the financial year 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u217	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u218	Accordingly, the House adopted the BIM Commission's 2021 budget proposals. The Court therefore adopts the BIM Commission's budget proposals 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u219	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u220	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2019 budget year accounts of the Police Information Review Body. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Audit Body for the financial year 2019 on the police information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u221	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u222	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the 2020 budget of the Police Information Review Body. Consequently, the Court adopts the adjustment of the budget for the financial year 2020 of the Supervisory Body to the police information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u223	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u224	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2021 budget proposals of the Police Information Review Body. Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals 2021 of the Supervisory Body on the police information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u225	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u226	Accordingly, the Board adopts the 2019 budget year accounts of the Federal Ethics Commission. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Federal Deontological Commission for the financial year 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u227	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? (Oui) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u228	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2021 budget proposals of the Federal Ethics Commission. Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals 2021 of the Federal Deontological Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u229	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u230	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2019 budget year accounts of the Central Prison Supervision Board. Consequently, the Court shall adopt the accounts of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisons for the financial year 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u231	Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u232	Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the adjustment of the budget for the fiscal year 2020 of the Central Prison Supervision Board. Consequently, the Court adopts the adjustment of the budget for the financial year 2020 of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u233	Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u234	Yes 137 Yes Non 0 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2021 budget proposals of the Central Prison Supervision Board. Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals 2021 of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u235	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Résultat du vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u236	Yes 124 Yes Non 17 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 141 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the 2021 budget proposals of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. Consequently, the Court adopts the budget proposals 2021 of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u237	Vote on Amendment No 6 to Article 2 by Marco Van Hees. (1577/7) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Marco Van Hees on Article 2. (1577/7) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u238	Yes [[14]] Yes No. 134 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 2. (1577/7) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 2. (1577/7) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u239	Yes [[43]] Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Björn Anseew cs to Article 2. (1577/7) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Björn Anseuw cs on article 2. (1577/7) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u240	Yes 58 Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 and the annexed table were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 and the attached table were adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u241	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u242	Yes 82 Yes No. [[60]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total As a result, the House passed the bill containing the Ways and Means budget for the fiscal year 2021. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1577/8) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law on the Budget for the financial year 2021. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1577/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u243	Vote on Amendment No 92 by Marco Van Hees to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 92 by Marco Van Hees on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u244	Yes 30 Yes No. 117 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 93 by Marco Van Hees to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 93 by Marco Van Hees on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u245	Yes 30 Yes No. 118 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 89 by Joy Donné cs to Rule 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 89 by Joy Donné cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u246	Yes 59 Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 75 by Kurt Ravyts cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 75 by Kurt Ravyts cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u247	Yes [[19]] Yes No. 129 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 78 by Sophie De Wit cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 78 by Sophie De Wit cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u248	Yes [[55]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 91 by Sander Loones cs to Rule 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 91 by Sander Loones cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u249	Yes [[55]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 68 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 68 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u250	Yes [[19]] Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 69 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 69 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u251	Yes [[19]] Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 90 by Wim Van der Donckt cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 90 by Wim Van der Donkt cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u252	Yes [[55]] Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 94 by Marco Van Hees to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 94 by Marco Van Hees on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u253	Yes 30 Yes No. 118 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 95 by Marco Van Hees to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 95 by Marco Van Hees on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u254	Yes 30 Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 76 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 76 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u255	Yes [[19]] Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 70 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 70 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u256	Yes [[19]] Yes No. 129 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 88 by Sander Loones cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 88 by Sander Loones cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u257	Yes [[42]] Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 72 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 72 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u258	Yes [[41]] Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 84 by Theo Francken cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 84 by Theo Francken cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u259	Yes [[42]] Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 80 by Joy Donné cs to Rule 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 80 by Joy Donné cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u260	Yes 54 Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 83 by Theo Francken cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 83 by Theo Francken cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u261	Yes [[43]] Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 85 by Theo Francken cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 85 by Theo Francken cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u262	Yes [[43]] Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 82 by Theo Francken cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 82 by Theo Francken cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u263	Yes 54 Yes No. 93 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 81 by Joy Donné cs to Rule 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 81 by Joy Donné cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u264	Yes [[60]] Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 79 by Joy Donné cs to Rule 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 79 by Joy Donné cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u265	Yes [[60]] Yes No. 88 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 86 by Theo Francken cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 86 by Theo Francken cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u266	Yes 44 Yes No. 104 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 96 by Marco Van Hees to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 96 by Marco Van Hees on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u267	Yes [[12]] Yes No. 136 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 77 by Kathleen Depoorter cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 77 by Kathleen Depooster cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u268	Yes [[37]] Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 87 by Sander Loones cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 87 by Sander Loones cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u269	Yes [[43]] Yes No. 105 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 71 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 71 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u270	Yes [[42]] Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on amendment No 73 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 73 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u271	Yes [[19]] Yes No. 129 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 74 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 74 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on article 1-01-2. (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u272	Yes [[19]] Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 1-01-2 and the annexed tables were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 1-01-2 and the attached tables were adopted. Vote on Amendment No 97 by Marco Van Hees to insert an Article 2.16.25/1(n). (1578/42) Vote on Amendment No 97 by Marco Van Hees to insert an article 2.16.25/1(n). (1578/42) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u273	Yes [[12]] Yes No. 135 No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u274	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote on the bill containing the Ways and Means budget for the fiscal year 2021 (1577/1) is valid for the bill? Can the result of the vote on the draft law on the Budget for the financial year 2021 (1577/1) also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u275	As a result, the House passed the bill containing the General Estimates for the fiscal year 2021. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1578/43) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law on the general expenditure budget for the financial year 2021. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1578/43)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u276	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Joy Donné cs to delete Article 18. (1662/13) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Joy Donné cs to abolish Article 18. (1662/13) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u277	Yes [[42]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 1 by Kathleen Depoorter to insert an Article 37/1(n). (1662/13) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Kathleen Depoorter to insert an article 37/1(n). (1662/13) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u278	Yes [[25]] Yes No. 101 No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck to insert an Article 63/1(n). (1662/13) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Catherine Fonck to insert an article 63/1(n). (1662/13) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u279	Yes [[37]] Yes No. 110 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Marco Van Hees to insert Articles 90/1(n) and 90/2(n). (1662/13) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Marco Van Hees introducing Articles 90/1(n) and 90/2(n). (1662/13) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u280	Yes 30 Yes No. 118 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Marco Van Hees to insert Articles 90/3(n) and 90/4(n). (1662/13) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Marco Van Hees to insert Articles 90/3(n) and 90/4(n). (1662/13) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u281	Yes 30 Yes No. 117 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 147 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Rule 59. (1662/12) Vote on Rule 59. (1662/12) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u282	Yes [[113]] Yes No. [[29]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total Accordingly, article 59 was adopted. Consequently, Article 59 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u283	Vote on Rule 60. (1662/12) Vote on Rule 60. (1662/12) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u284	Accordingly, article 60 was adopted. Consequently, Article 60 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u285	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u286	Yes [[84]] Yes No. 56 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 142 Total As a result, the House passed the program bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1662/14) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft programme law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1662/14)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u287	Reason for abstention? (No) Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u288	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Wouter Vermeersch cs to Article 2. (1659/6) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Wouter Vermeersch cs on Article 2. (1659/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u289	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 107 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Marco Van Hees to Article 2. (1659/6) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Marco Van Hees article 2. (1659/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u290	Yes 30 Yes No. 92 No Abstentions 26 Abstensions Total 148 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 and the annexed tables were adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 and the annexed tables were adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u291	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Can we consider that the result of the vote on the draft programme law (1662/12) is valid for it? Can the result of the vote on the draft programme law (1662/12) also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u292	Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1659/07) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1659/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u293	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u294	Yes 143 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the budget for the year 2021 of the CREG. This will be made known to CREG. Consequently, the Court adopts the budget for the year 2021 of the CREG. It will be brought to the attention of the CREG.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u295	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u296	Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 141 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1690/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1690/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u297	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Maxime Prévot cs to insert Rule 34/1(n). (1668/11) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Maxime Prévot cs to insert an article 34/1(n). (1668/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u298	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u299	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Maxime Prévot cs to Rule 37. (1668/11) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Maxime Prévot cs on Article 37. (1668/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u300	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 37 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 37 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u301	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Maxime Prévot cs to Rule 41. (1668/11) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Maxime Prévot cs on Article 41. (1668/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u302	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 41 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 41 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u303	Vote on amendment No. 4 by Maxime Prévot cs to insert an article 42/1(n). (1668/11) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Maxime Prévot cs to insert an article 42/1(n). (1668/11) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u304	Yes [[17]] Yes No. 106 No Abstentions 17 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u305	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u306	Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u307	Yes 98 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 44 Abstensions Total 142 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1668/12) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1668/12)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u308	Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u309	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Début du vote / Start of the vote. Fin du vote / End of the vote. Vote result / Uitslag van de steming.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u310	Yes 101 Yes Non 40 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 141 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. The proposed revision of Constitution No. 1287/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The proposal for a revision of the Constitution No. 1287/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u311	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u312	Yes 128 Yes No. 13 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 141 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1652/8) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1652/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u313	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u314	Yes 89 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 34 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1683/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1683/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u315	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Dominiek Sneppe cs on Article 9. (1534/5) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to Article 9. (1534/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u316	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u317	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Dominiek Sneppe cs on Article 9. (1534/5) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to Article 9. (1534/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u318	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u319	Vote on Amendment No 5 by Dominiek Sneppe cs on Article 10. (1534/5) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to Article 10. (1534/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u320	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u321	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Dominiek Sneppe cs on Article 13. (1534/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to Article 13. (1534/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u322	Yes [[41]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u323	Vote on Amendment No 7 by Dominiek Sneppe cs on Article 14. (1534/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to Article 14. (1534/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u324	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u325	Vote on Amendment No 8 by Dominic Sneppe cs on Article 19. (1534/5) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to Article 19. (1534/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u326	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u327	Vote on Amendment No 9 by Dominiek Sneppe cs on Article 24. (1534/5) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to Article 24. (1534/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u328	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 24 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u329	Vote on Amendment No 10 by Dominiek Sneppe cs on Article 25. (1534/5) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to Article 25. (1534/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u330	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 25 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 25 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u331	Vote on Amendment No 11 by Dominiek Sneppe cs on Article 56. (1534/5) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to Rule 56. (1534/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u332	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 56 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 56 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u333	Vote on Amendment No 12 by Dominiek Sneppe cs on Article 65. (1534/5) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Dominiek Sneppe cs to Rule 65. (1534/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u334	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 65 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 65 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u335	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u336	Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u337	Yes 142 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 142 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1534/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1534/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u338	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Kathleen Depoorter to Article 3. (1677/4) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Kathleen Depoorter on article 3. (1677/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u339	Yes 56 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 3 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u340	Vote on Amendment No 1 to Article 5 by Sofie Merckx. (1677/4) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Sofie Merckx on Article 5. (1677/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u341	Yes [[28]] Yes No. 89 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u342	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Kathleen Depoorter to Article 5. (1677/4) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Kathleen Depoorter on Article 5. (1677/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u343	Yes 51 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u344	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Kathleen Depoorter to Article 5. (1677/4) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Kathleen Depoorter on Article 5. (1677/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u345	Yes [[28]] Yes No. 94 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u346	Vote on Amendment No 5 by Kathleen Depoorter to Article 11. (1677/4) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Kathleen Depoorter on article 11. (1677/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u347	Yes [[41]] Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u348	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Kathleen Depoorter to insert an Article 14/1(n). (1677/4) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Kathleen Depoorter to insert an article 14/1(n). (1677/4) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u349	Yes 51 Yes No. 83 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 139 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u350	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u351	Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u352	Yes 125 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 19 Abstensions Total 144 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1677/5) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1677/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u353	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u354	Yes 143 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 143 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1665/4) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1665/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u355	Vote on Amendment No 3 by Theo Francken cs to delete Article 2. (1654/5) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Theo Francken cs to omit Article 2. (1654/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u356	Yes [[41]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u357	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Theo Francken cs to delete Article 9. (1654/5) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Theo Francken cs to omit Article 9. (1654/5) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u358	Yes 48 Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u359	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u360	Yes 90 Yes No. 24 No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 143 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1654/6) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1654/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u361	Vote on Amendment No 66 by Ellen Samyn cs at request IV.12. (1597/9) Vote on Amendment No 66 by Ellen Samyn cs on request IV.12. (1597/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u362	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 98 No Abstentions 24 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u363	Vote on Amendment No 67 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert a request IV.29(n). (1597/9) Vote on Amendment No 67 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert an application IV.29(n). (1597/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u364	Yes [[41]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u365	Vote on amendment No. 68 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert a request IV.30(n). (1597/9) Vote on Amendment No 68 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert an application IV.30(n). (1597/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u366	Yes [[41]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u367	Vote on Amendment No 69 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert a request IV.31(n). (1597/9) Vote on Amendment No 69 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert an application IV.31(n). (1597/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u368	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 122 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u369	Vote on Amendment No 70 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert a request IV.32(n). (1597/9) Vote on Amendment No 70 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert an application IV.32(n). (1597/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u370	Yes [[40]] Yes No. 100 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u371	Vote on Amendment No 71 by Ellen Samyn cs to insert a request IV.33(n). (1597/9) Vote on Amendment No 71 from Ellen Samyn cs to insert an application IV.33(n). (1597/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u372	Yes [[18]] Yes No. 99 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u373	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u374	Yes 130 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 142 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1597/10) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1597/10) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u375	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u376	Yes 139 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 141 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (923/6) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (923/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u377	Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u378	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Sander Loones cs to insert an Article 3/1(n). (1674/9) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Sander Loones cs to insert an article 3/1(n). (1674/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u379	Yes 50 Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Vanessa Matz cs to insert an Article 14/1(n). (1674/9) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Vanessa Matz cs to insert an article 14/1(n). (1674/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u380	Yes 52 Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Valerie Van Peel to insert an Article 27/1(n). (1674/9) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Valerie Van Peel to insert an article 27/1(n). (1674/9) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u381	Yes 34 Yes No. 102 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u382	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u383	Yes 102 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 40 Abstensions Total 142 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1674/10) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1674/10)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u384	Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u385	Vote on Amendment No 18 by Catherine Fonck to Article 17. (1667/6) Vote on Amendment No 18 by Catherine Fonck on article 17. (1667/6) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u386	Yes 36 Yes No. [[85]] No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u387	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u388	Yes 119 Yes No. [[16]] No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total [[140]] Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (1667/7) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (1667/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u389	Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u390	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, It is in the context of the end-of-year celebrations that I address you at this last plenary meeting in 2020. A time of year synonymous with reunion and sharing. As Speaker of the House, I would like to thank all of you for the constructive work that has been done in this House. You have all shown professionalism in particularly difficult circumstances! The health crisis which is severely affecting our country, Europe and a large part of the world has led us to profoundly change our habits, traditions and ways of working both in committee and in plenary. I would therefore like to begin by warmly thanking all the staff of the House who have managed to ensure the proper functioning of our Assembly in the face of the new realities, new needs and extremely sustained pace of work. Undoubtedly, this is an acceleration for the modernization of our institution, to continue with renewed energy. Each of the services fulfils an essential role for Parliament's missions and this crisis has once again shown us how valuable each staff member has been in overcoming this challenge. 2020 was a turbulent and intense political year. It was also a constructive year, because there was a new majority. The new government has gone to work. In order to respond to the health situation and also to the social and economic situation, intensive legislative work is needed. Parliament was keen to support the population and the social, public, cultural, economic and health sectors that have been hard hit by the health crisis. Beste collega's, I want to continue to work with you to improve the functioning of our Assembly and for more modern work processes. In particular, I would like to give a new impetus in a number of areas. Our Assembly must continue and step up its efforts for greater openness towards society. I am convinced that greater involvement of citizens is necessary in order to provide solutions to the major challenges of our time through consensus and in an effective way. Our Assembly must, more than ever, be open to the other levels of policy, civil society and individual citizens. It is crucial that we make our identity and our communication more visible and more modern. In order to make our work even more accessible, projects will be launched to ensure that Question Time is simultaneously translated into sign language in plenary and to subtitle our video footage. Efforts to increase sustainability in the operation of our institution will also be a priority. Important issues are also the further development of multilateralism and parliamentary diplomacy and the follow-up of European affairs, including the preparation of the Belgian Presidency of the Council of the European Union during the first semester of 2024. Finally, I will obviously pay particular attention to equality between women and men, as well as to combating discrimination. In order to provide lasting responses to the major challenges facing our country, we will need to carry out substantive work in a constructive spirit. In this regard, I hope that our Assembly will be even more a forum for debate, exchange and openness to ideas. I will ensure that this diversity of opinions – a guarantee of healthy parliamentary work – can be guaranteed. I wish you all happy end-of-year celebrations, even though the current health measures of each of us are asking for important sacrifices, which we must now make in order to get back together later. On behalf of our Assembly, I would like to wish the Prime Minister and the members of the Government a very pleasant year-end and thank them for their cooperation. My thanks also go, once again, to the clerk and all the staff of the House, to the journalists who followed our work, not to mention the military commander and all the security personnel in charge of the Palais de la Nation. Finally, I would like to pay particular attention to those staff members who have been on the front line to ensure the health security of our institution and facilities. I wish you all a healthy and successful life. Keep taking care of yourself, others and your loved ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u391	Madam President, two mistakes have been made in the votes by my group, which I would like to correct. That may have to do with the 36-hour meeting. I know I cannot change the vote, but for the report I would certainly like to mention what it should have been. On the vote No. 12 (FINAL-12), on document No. 1675, my group abstained instead of voting in favour. If the vote is taken, I shall put it to the vote. 64 (FINAL-64) on document No 1667, my group voted in favour instead of voting against.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u392	Thank you. We did a good job today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u393	Vote on Amendment No 37 by Catherine Fonck to Article 5. (1433/10) Vote on Amendment No 37 by Catherine Fonck on Article 5. (1433/10) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u394	Yes [[40]] Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 5 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 5 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 38 by Catherine Fonck to Article 35. (1433/10) Vote on Amendment No 38 by Catherine Fonck on article 35. (1433/10) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u395	Yes [[40]] Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 35 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 35 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 39 by Catherine Fonck to Article 37. (1433/10) Vote on Amendment No 39 by Catherine Fonck on article 37. (1433/10) Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Uitslag van de steming / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u396	Yes [[40]] Yes No. [[84]] No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Rule 37 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and the Article 37 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u397	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of the vote / Début du Vote. End of vote / Fin du Vote. Result of the vote / Résultat du vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u398	Yes 96 Yes No. [[12]] No Abstentions 30 Abstensions Total 138 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1433/12) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King as a draft law for ratification. (1433/12) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-17-definitief-55-plenair-ip081x.u399	We must approve the agenda for the meeting on 7 January 2021. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the sitting of 7 January 2021. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. Thank you and wish you an excellent rest after this long, long, long session. I think we have forty hours of meeting behind us. Thank you for your company. Let's hope to start 2021 under excellent conditions. I wish you all a good rest and excellent leave. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, January 7, 2021 at 2.15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 7 January 2021 at 2.15 p.m.
