ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u1	Minister, the BFSA regularly carries out checks on farms and garden centres. A frequently heard complaint about these checks is that there are rather quick reports of cases and fines, and that little attention is paid to informing, advising, guiding and monitoring the entrepreneurs. This sometimes gives the impression that it is more about the collection of fines than about the improvement of the companies in question. Minister, is there a protocol on inspections being followed? What does that protocol look like if it does? Is it customary for a fine to be paid immediately? Does the BFSA also have an advisory and coaching role? How does the Agency work in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u2	The main task of the BFSA is to ensure the health of the consumer. The BFSA does not only have audit assignments; in my opinion it also plays a role as a supervisor. You're asking for a protocol. There is a charter of control aspects. That charter describes the mandatory code of conduct for the auditors and inspectors of the BFSA during the performance of the audit tasks. The BFSA must always take the most appropriate measures during its checks. The aim of repression is, of course, to guarantee food safety. At the same time, there is the preventive, almost educational role of the BFSA, which consists of ensuring that the operator complies with the applicable standards. The Agency's business plan 2018-2020 recommends the auditors to comply with the principle of the progressive approach. In other words, non-compliance will not always lead to a report or a fine, but will depend on the operator's approach and the seriousness of the non-conformity found. Even though the training and guidance of the operators are the responsibility of the Regions, the website of the BFSA contains a page on which the operators can find all necessary information about their sector, how the agency operates and how it controls, as well as explanation of the control and legislation applicable. In addition, an information and guidance cell was set up at the Agency. The cell focuses mainly on operators who are in direct contact with the consumer. The cell works together with various sector consultants and group organisations as well as with other services of the BFSA. I expect the accompanying role to be strengthened in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u3	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It is important that the role of the BFSA as a supervisor and coach is strengthened, because I think that farmers and garden centres should really see the BFSA as a partner and not as a bogeyman waving fines, which is still a bit of a perception. The principle and intentions to which you referred in your reply are good, but it may be advisable to ask farmers and garden centres to find out what the potential improvement points are for the BFSA, and whether the way in which it plays its coaching role is sufficient. In fact, farmers and garden centres regularly inform me that the BFSA's approach and its dealings with entrepreneurs do not always achieve what is intended, namely to improve things.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u4	Mr Minister, my second question concerns the use of pesticides. Many pesticides are banned within the EU, but these rules do not apply to the whole world. For example, 149 of the 504 pesticides used in Brazil would be banned in the EU. However, Brazil exports 587 million euros of food to our country every year. The NGO Corporate Europe Observatory warns about carcinogenic and reproductive toxic ingredients that enter our market through imports of agricultural products from countries outside the EU. The EU is struggling to impose stricter requirements on imported agricultural products, but in the meantime our own farms must constantly make efforts to comply with the strict European rules. Mr Minister, first of all, what exactly is our country doing to find out what products were used in the cultivation of the crops that land on our plate? Secondly, international trade agreements also regulate the origin and treatment of agricultural products. How are controls and imports regulated for agricultural products treated with pesticides banned from us? Thirdly, what is the situation with regard to imports of agricultural products outside the Treaties? How can our country control the quality of these products? Finally, what is your opinion on the European directives? Do you think they should also apply to products marketed here from other countries? Will you urge your European colleagues to watch this closely and punish it if necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u5	Madam President, Mrs Gijbels, the maximum residue limits (MRL) for pesticides authorised in foodstuffs are laid down by law in a European regulation. They apply to foods placed on the Belgian market, whether originating in the EU or imported from third countries, i.e. from outside the EU. Moreover, the Regulation does not allow Member States to prohibit the placing on the market of foods complying with the EU MRL. The BFSA informs me that in 2018 it analysed 4,220 samples of food and feed; 97,7% of those samples were in compliance with the MRL. You should also know that Regulation 1107/2009 lays down additional criteria for the approval of the use of active substances of plant protection products in the EU. This means, in concrete terms, that a substance cannot be approved for use in the EU if it is carcinogenic or considered as such, if it is mutagenic to humans, if it is reprotoxic to humans or if it has hormone disrupting properties that can be harmful to humans. If, following a re-evaluation of the risks, the use of a substance is prohibited in the EU, for reasons relating inter alia to the protection of consumer health, the MRL shall then be reduced to the minimum limits applicable to the determination criterion. Food imported from countries where the use of these hazardous substances is still permitted is, of course, excluded from the European market. On behalf of Belgium, I have always encouraged Europe to strengthen consumer protection against mutagenic, carcinogenic and reprotoxic substances and hormone disruptors. I will maintain a strong line in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u6	Minister, I think we should do everything we can to avoid being stricter for our own producers than for those who import food into our country. I think the corona crisis shows that people still rely on our own products. A lot is bought from the farmer himself. I hope that we can maintain this, that we can support them, and that we will not make it more difficult for them to import cheaper food from countries that have to deal less strictly with production conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u7	Thank you for your conciseness, Mrs. Gijbels. If you wish, you can refer to the written question and it is included in extenso in the report. The interpreters tell me that they have great difficulties in translating.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u8	The sound is maximum, I can't do more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u9	They are aware of this, but at times they fail to follow. We're all doing our best, and no problem for the interpreters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u10	I can buy a headset with a microphone for future commissions, if that can help them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u11	I think it will help. That is for these technical elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u12	Madam Chair, Minister, this question is not dated today, as it dates back to February. You know that the Ciney market is an essential part of the cattle sector. It has also become one of the largest livestock markets in Belgium and even in Europe. But his future is suspended from an ultimatum, addressed to him by the AFSCA. The Commission considers that the efforts already made by the market officials covered to comply with a list of 28 points concerning the hygiene and traceability of bovine animals do not satisfy it. There's an ultimate deadline. I asked the question in February. We have almost reached this final deadline set by the AFSCA on April 30 to ensure that the covered market meets all of its requirements. Otherwise, the Agency threatens to close the covered market, which would be a disaster for the entire cattle sector in Wallonia. All those in charge of the covered market indicated that they were making every effort to comply with AFSCA's comments in time. But some requirements require more time, because they require a restructuring of the functioning of the institution as a whole. The economic crisis in addition to the health crisis of VOCID-19 has obviously created new difficulties for the covered market. Minister, we are just under fifteen days from the deadline, can we take stock of the situation? AFSCA had announced that it would perform at least one unannounced control to ensure that the covered market complied with its requirements. This check may have already taken place. If so, what can you tell us? Is it not essentially for the AFSCA to accompany, in a positive attitude, the covered market in an attempt to settle the problematic points one after the other rather than to remain, as it does, in an approach of sanctioning body? This has no added value for the covered market or more broadly for the bovine sector. I would also like to have a commitment from you. The economic crisis has added to the situation. Can you assure us that the covered market will not be closed by April 30? Finally, have you, as a minister, made contact with the authorities in charge of the covered market, in this case the municipality of Ciney? Can you give us an update on these different contacts?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u13	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, I will give you a chronological summary of the dossier. From the outset, I confirm to you that I am this issue live and personally because I know how essential the work of the Ciney market is in our agriculture. In particular, I want to go back to the terms you have used, you who are a nuanced person, and to contradict them fully. There are no threats or ultimatums in the head of the AFSCA. This one's doing her job. I have ensured, by operating the direct contacts you have mentioned, that we can move forward in a form of consultation in order to meet the legal objectives. As I said, Ciney's covered market is an indispensable player in our agriculture. I believe that they are fully aware that the sustainability of this market requires the maintenance of high and fully compliant health standards. Like any gathering centre, it is necessary – and we must accompany it in this direction – to prevent any risk of spreading diseases that are sometimes very contagious. It's also security for users. Contamination can ruin many farms. He's been seen many times. We all know how structurally the meat sector is already suffering. Since 2013, the market has been warned on several occasions by the AFSCA. The inspection was carried out on 12 April 2019 to highlight a number of deficiencies in the control of cattle and (...), but also in the traceability. You know, Mrs. Fonck, how important traceability is. On May 10, 2019, there was a warning to take corrective measures deemed necessary by the AFSCA. At that time, an agreement was reached between the AFSCA and the contract. The agreement granted a period of time until 31 December 2019. That is why I am telling you that there is a will to move forward and to accompany, because the deadline has already allowed for a postponement. During December, I organized a concertation meeting in which the Walloon Minister of Agriculture, the Walloon Federation of Agriculture, the municipal authorities of Ciney, the management of the covered market, representatives of the National Federation of Trade in Livestock and Meat and the Association Regionale de Santé et d'Identification Animales de l'AFSCA participated. This meeting really took place in a constructive atmosphere, with everyone telling me that they are willing to arrive at a solution that is as fast as possible and that is, above all, sustainable. For almost a year, we have been working together to accompany the meeting of objectives. On 10 January 2020, a new assessment of the action plan revealed that there had already been a number of problems solved, that a great deal of effort had been made and that this gave us hope that we would be able to meet the standards within a favourable time frame. And it was on the basis of this assessment that with the AFSCA, we were still able to grant an additional period of three months. It runs until 30 April 2020. Over the course of these months, there is an accompaniment. You asked about the accompaniment. This is the accompaniment. A monthly monitoring work allows the AFSCA to measure, in this spirit of collaboration with market leaders, the evolution to achieve the objectives determined together. And these objectives are met for a matter of legal compliance. I took care – the AFSCA is on the same line – to choose an accompaniment that is as close as possible, whether at the management level, which is sensitized to the issue, as local agents. My firm is actively involved in the follow-up to this vital issue. On the basis of the information provided to me, I have no doubt that there is a common will to reach a solution that will achieve common objectives in terms of compliance. The more weeks go by, the more I consider this positive development. After April 30, the AFSCA will review the progress of the market's efforts already made in recent months. I will, of course, ensure that there is no questioning of market activity, especially during this period of coronavirus pandemic, as the market continues to move in the same direction that I have been able to detail throughout my response.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u14	Minister, your answer has been long and we know that your agenda is very busy. We must therefore try to respect the speaking times allocated to each and try to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u15	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u16	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear what you're saying. However, we must be able to say things: all this has been experienced as an ultimatum. I take note of the fact that the climate is constructive. You recognize – and this is a good thing because it is true – that a lot of effort has been made by the covered markets sector. For other files, rather than branding closure threats, the AFSCA could also be a strong partner. This would not prevent him from having requirements, either in terms of deficiencies or to improve the traceability of livestock. We're on the eve of the deadline. I understand clearly that you are not opposed to opening up the covered markets tomorrow. So I plead for permanent constructive accompaniment...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u17	That's the case!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u18	Minister, allow me to continue. I didn't interrupt you. I ask you to do the same. I am therefore in favour of a constructive and permanent accompaniment by refraining from making major statements, as has been the case in recent months, by means of the press. What matters to me is that we respect the requirements which are important in terms of health, but also that this major tool for the agricultural sector is being maintained, even more so in the context of the current economic crisis, which, unfortunately, risks going on for a number of weeks or even months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u19	Madam President, if I may add a word. I think that the discussion we have about the AFSCA is sometimes a little schizophrenic. We call on him to ensure health security and food security. We often ask him in the political fora to be very fast, very firm. We believe that the protection of professionals, but also of the consumer or of animal health are essential elements on which we ask him to be very present, active and effective. In a number of cases, as in this one, what do we want? Let her be less? She won't be. I want to defend AFSCA. In this case, I intend to note that efforts are being made on both sides. On the one hand, the market is making a lot of efforts – I stressed it, and I want to say it again – and I am very confident. On the other hand, the AFSCA is also making a lot of efforts. It is for this reason that the consultation has been launched for several months. As AFSCA knows the importance of this market to our agriculture, it is making even more concerted efforts. I don't think there's a bad guy and a good guy in this case. I think there's a set of actors doing their best. And that is precisely why I think we will be able to bring sustainability to the Ciney market, which has sent all the necessary signals of progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u20	Madam President, I do not intend to monopolize the floor, because it is becoming a long time for colleagues. I just want to add this, minister. I hear what you're saying, I think the speech has been evolving over the last few months, and I welcome it. For me, the AFSCA plays a fundamental role that must not only be that of the constable, but also that of a partner who is on the front line. This makes it possible to have an added value for everyone in a common interest, both for the agricultural sector and for all consumers, both for the sustainability of this tool. So much the better if we move forward and can go beyond that date of 30 April by planning on the medium and long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u21	Minister, the latest news on the mandatory fight against thistles dates back to March 2017. Then Flemish Minister of Agriculture Joke Schauvliege replied in the debate about this in the Flemish Parliament that the federal level still had to correct a number of issues. We are now three years later and I wonder what the situation is. Who's gonna fight thistles or who's gonna fight thistles?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u22	Mrs Creemers, the new European plant health legislation only imposes control measures against certain harmful organisms, namely quarantine organisms, which fall within the competence of the federal government, and regulated non-quarantine organisms, which fall within the competence of the regions. This was recently repeated in a well-founded opinion from the Council of State. As regards the harmful thistles, the Scientific Committee of the BFSA stresses in its opinions of 13 January 2017 and of 30 October 2019 that these species are widespread in Belgium and therefore do not comply with the European definition of a quarantine organism. Their eradication on Belgian territory is considered impossible because they are widespread. It is certainly possible to continue to manage their populations because they are competitive weed species that can become problematic for certain agricultural crops and in pastures. However, jurisdiction lies with the regions. Of the more than 20 species of thistles to be found in Belgium, only four are considered harmful. The field thistle, the spear shrub, the bare shrub and the curly shrub are included in the Royal Decree of 19 November 1987 on the control of organisms harmful to plants or plant products. An amendment to that royal decree is in progress. Its aim is, on the one hand, to bring that old 1987 decision into line with the plant health law and, on the other hand, to take account of the evolution of each of those organisms included in that decision over the past 30 years. At present, the plan is to remove the thistles from the scope of the Decision. Given their distribution and their unique classification on the basis of the recent European plant health law, any management measures to be taken fall within the competence of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u23	Minister, it is not quite clear to me yet. I understand that an amendment to the royal decree is in progress at the moment. If our colleagues at Flemish level are asking what is happening in Flanders with the fight against thistle, whether or not it is compulsory, then they will probably receive the same answer as they did three years ago. That constant referral from the Flemish to the federal government seems somewhat strange to me. For no one it is clear whether or not the thistle should be combated now. It occurred to me to ask the question, because the bee plan refers to the compulsory fight against thistles. I hope that, in the interests of the bees, consideration will be given to leaving the thistles as far as possible, where they do not disturb. Thistles are very useful for bees. That is why I hope that we will soon be able to see the amended Royal Decree, so that colleagues in Flanders do not receive the same answer as three years ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u24	My colleague S. Schlitz has already asked you about the creation of a GMO-free label for foodstuffs of animal origin. This is an extremely important issue for human health because the scientific literature shows that these GMO feedstuffs (such as maize and soybeans) contain far more pesticide residues than non-GMO equivalent raw materials. These substances are found in the tissues of animals that they sometimes make sick, are ingested by humans and contribute to the contamination of humans by this pesticide. On 3 September 2019, in your answer to his question, you indicated: On the question of a label fed without GMOs for foodstuffs of animal origin, there is currently no European or Belgian legislation governing this claim. But nothing in Belgium prohibits it either. This label already exists in other European countries: France, Germany, Luxembourg, Austria... So why not in Belgium? It seems to us that creating such a label must go hand in hand with the creation of a GMO-free label for animal food. However, it appears that the AFSCA, in its June 2010 GMO Regulatory Guide, makes an interpretation of the legislation that does not support the creation of this reference. It states: The use of terms such as non-GMO, no GMO or GMO controlled on the label is not accepted since this is not in accordance with Article 28 of the AR of 9 February 1999 on the trade and use of substances intended for animal feed. In other words, the interpretation of the AFSCA legislation implies that it is not possible to create a label with a negative indication. 1) Have you been able to move forward on a GMO-free label for food of animal origin? 2) Can you give us your opinion on: - the current legality of using a GM-free label for animal foods? - the legislative opportunity to create a GMO-fed label? - the need to review the interpretation of the June 2010 GMO Regulatory Guide on negative food and feed statements?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u25	Madam President, as I mentioned in a reply to Mrs Schlitz, there is no Belgian prohibition on the creation of a GMO-free food label. I encourage producers who wish to do so to do so because I believe that this can be an added value for some consumers. Indeed, more and more people want to legitimately know what is on their plate. Different players are involved in the management of the labels: the producers who ask for the label, the organisation that manages and assigns the label, the body that monitors the proper use of the label. Where a label is drawn up on a voluntary basis, as is the case for the "GMO-free" label, it shall be controlled by an approved body independent of the producer and accredited by BELAC. This Belgian accreditation structure is based on legal provisions and is under the responsibility of the SPF Economy, which is the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister of Economy. Whether labelling is negative or positive has no impact on the launch of a "GMO-free" production chain, since this new chain can already, on the basis of current practice, avoid the use of foods containing GMOs labelled "contains GMOs". The application guide published by the AFSCA in June 2010 states that negative labelling may be misleading, as it gives the impression that this food has certain special characteristics, while similar foods with no GMO labelling have exactly the same legal characteristics as those labelled "no GMO". You see that the message that can be sent to the consumer can also be double-edged. That is what the report tells us. But I personally, no doubt like you, I think that, in addition to putting some order in a number of labels that make it difficult for consumers today to find themselves there, we must go towards greater transparency and give the consumer who wishes to be most widely informed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u26	Mr Ducrame, thank you for your answer. It is indeed substantially the same as you were able to give to my colleague Mrs Schlitz many months ago. I am a little puzzled when you tell us that the directives of the AFSCA, which date back to 2010, discourage or even limit the legislative initiatives that we could take in this direction. At the same time, you encourage producers to use it. I believe that the responsibility for having clear, rational labels that bring more transparency into what we have on the plate lies with the legislator we are. We must be able to come back with concrete proposals to move forward on these elements. Both producers and consumers want progress. From the moment these questions have been asked several times, I would really like us to be able to move forward on putting these labels in order and to be a little more ambitious on these issues. We will continue to follow up on this issue. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u27	Very cordially, I would like to make it clear that there is no AFSCA directive. It's just an application guide. There is no obligation imposed by the AFSCA not to use a negative label, in this case. If this label were to be launched, there are no obstacles to this. We can go! And it's not AFSCA that will tell you that you can't launch this type of label. There is therefore no obstacle to launching a label of this order and certainly not at the start of the AFSCA.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u28	Minister, I almost hear you're in favour. At least you're not against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u29	I am in favour; absolutely!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u30	We will then move forward on the proposals. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I return the presidency to Mr Warmoes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u31	Madame de Laveleye, thank you for chairing this meeting in my absence, while I was on another committee. Good morning, everyone. It's a pleasure to meet you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u32	For me too, Mr. President! I was wondering where you went. I was told, "We don't know."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u33	I was on another commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u34	A report from the RTBF TV Journal on 31 January 2020 mentions what seems to be an increasing phenomenon: schools are abolishing hot meal service because they cannot comply with the rules of the AFSCA. When asked in the report, David Lavaux, mayor of Erquelinnes, explains his commune's decision no longer to offer hot meals in the communal establishments because the controls of the AFSCA would be so strict as to create fear and involve too much financial cost. Schools are not intended to make profit and therefore sell these hot meals at a cost (see below by partly subsidising meals). This situation is therefore all the more worrying because, allowing children to have a full hot meal at noon is a service provided to families who are facing financial difficulties and/or have no possibility of cooking. My questions are therefore as follows: - Are you aware of this phenomenon? - What is the cost of a AFSCA check charged to the establishments visited? - Do the rules applicable to schools take into account their specificities? If not, what flexibility is there to adapt them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u35	Madam, I tend to want to change the management mentality of the AFSCA towards a policy of control but also of accompaniment. We know how important the role of AFSCA is to the health of consumers and especially to consumers who are known to be at risk, such as children. You will remember these hundreds of children affected by salmonella contamination. Some of them had to be hospitalized. The school to which you refer has recently decided to close its canteen on its own initiative. The last inspection carried out by the AFSCA in 2018 was entirely favourable. As a result, the AFSCA has under no circumstances encouraged the cessation of the school's cooking activities and therefore cannot be held responsible for the school. Sometimes there are fake news on these issues. I wish to denounce them here. On the question of cost, checks carried out in school canteens are not paid by the school. Only "recheck" visits after an unfavorable inspection are invoiced. In 2019, a "recheck" visit for a small school canteen in violation had a cost 173.71 euros. A "recheck" in a school canteen employing 10 to 19 people cost €491.82. These amounts are reduced by 75% for canteens whose self-checking system has been validated by an audit. Maintaining a school kitchen in order to ensure food security requires a minimum of regular investment, both in infrastructure and personnel. It is up to the organizing authority to decide whether to provide meals to students is a priority. The AFSCA also works closely with all schools and organizing authorities. It also puts in place numerous actions so that these stakeholders can respond as easily as possible to legal requirements. In May 2019, AFSCA organized the Food Security Assises. The Agency, on this occasion, brought together all the actors involved in food security in schools and the emphasis was placed on the distribution and preparation of meals in a school context. AFSCA has also given the floor to the actors on the ground to identify their needs, questions, problems, difficulties and to explore together ways of flexibility where possible, without sacrificing its priority objective, which is the food security of our children.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u36	Minister, thank you for the specific answers that I take note of. We have already discussed this with Mrs Fonck this morning, but I would like to mention this tension at AFSCA between guaranteeing our food security and supporting the actors. Our concern for high-quality and financially accessible hot meals, which are organized by schools, is truly a social concern that we all share. It is necessary to be absolutely sure that children are safe when they eat, but at the same time to support those actors who are trying to meet the obvious social needs of students. This pull refers us to the need to continue the work in this direction with the AFSCA.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u37	You're right, it's a balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u38	Ms Gijbels, three objectives were set by AMCRA, the Centre of Expertise for AntiMicrobial Consumption and Resistance in Animals, before the end of 2020 compared to 2011. Two of these objectives were already achieved in 2018. The use of critically important antibiotics was reduced by more than 79 percent. The initial target was a 75% reduction. The second objective achieved is a reduction of almost 70% in the use of feeds medicated with antibiotics. The target was initially a 50% reduction. The third objective to be achieved by the end of the year is to reduce the total use of antibiotics. According to the latest available figures of 2018, we are at a reduction of 35.4 %. This reduction is, of course, positive, but we must continue our efforts to achieve the initial objective of a 50% reduction over a period of 10 years. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the results for 2019 will not be known before June 2020. Whatever the final result will be, we will have to go even further. The competent federal administrations have therefore already drawn up a new national action plan against antimicrobial resistance. This plan covers the period 2020-2024. It provides for new operational objectives and a series of additional actions in the areas of public health, agriculture and the environment. Data on the sale of antibiotics shall be collected by the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products. The Minister for Health can explain this further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u39	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation, but you have not answered a few questions. You have indicated what objectives have been achieved, but not how our country is doing in relation to the other EU countries. Which countries are doing better than we are? How should we compare ourselves with the other EU countries? Are there also requirements for the use of antibiotics in the production of meat imported into our country? You have not answered these questions, but perhaps you can do so in writing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u40	That's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u41	The general conclusion is that we must continue to aim for a further reduction in antibiotic use. One may forget it in times of corona, but we also constantly fight against bacteria that become resistant to antibiotics. They can also have serious consequences for people. Now the One Health system is being put in place to follow that well. It is important that continuous efforts are made to reduce antibiotic use. The Knowledge Centre published a report on this in April 2019 and they saw a role for the veterinarians. They should assist farmers in the more targeted use of antibiotics, and this could lead to a reduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u42	From 15 February to 14 June, our farmers can once again use neonicotinoid-coated seeds (Cothianidine and Thiamethoxame) for the cultivation of bettraves, following a new derogation issued by your services, while these neonicotinoids have been banned by the European Union since September 2018. Belgium is therefore, together with Austria and Poland, on the side of the bad students in the fight against neonicotinoids. Nature and Progress and NAP Europe have submitted an urgent request to the Council of State to cancel this derogation. The application has been refused and will be dealt with on the merits in the coming months. This is Belgium's second derogation for these products. In the previous marketing year, 30 % of the beet crop areas benefited from these coated seeds. These derogations are intended to be issued only if there are no satisfactory alternatives. 1. What have you done in practice since 2018 to develop satisfactory alternatives to neonicotinoids to protect the bettrave culture from viral jaundice? 2. What surface will this year still be cultivated with the coated seeds? 3. Are you considering that this derogation is the last one concerning neonicotinoids banned by the EU?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u43	Mr President, Mrs de Laveleye, our priority has always been to seek concrete solutions that take into account both the interests of the 8,400 people employed by the better sector in Belgium and the protection of pollinating insects. Moreover, I had voted in favour of a ban on neonicotinoids for a period of three years. In the spring of 2019, the House's Public Health Committee followed the same reasoning by adopting a bill defended by Ecolo-Groen, which was identical to my position. Belgium is obviously very concerned about the situation of useful pollinators and insects. We often talk about this in this committee. I think you have been able to fully grasp my sensitivity to this, particularly with regard to bees – whose essential contribution to biodiversity we know. In many ways, our country is a pioneer. Thus, our assessment of pesticides is already going further than the current European requirements. With regard to the risk to our bees, our country is a good European student. Also, let us not forget the implementation, in 2017, of the Bees plan. However, at European level, our situation is quite atypical. Neonicotinoids help to protect several crops, including beet, aphids, which are present throughout the country. This is what differentiates Belgium from other European countries. This is why the beekeeping sector had requested and obtained an emergency authorisation of 120 days for 2019, as provided for in European legislation, subject to certain additional guarantees for bees. Since the situation has not changed in the meantime, a new authorisation has been granted for this year. An appeal was brought and rejected by the Council of State. This position is pragmatic and does not prevent the sector from being aware that the derogation granted for the 2020 season will be, and I want to stress this aspect, the last. This has to be the last one. It is important to continue to actively seek alternatives that are more respectful of our biodiversity, even if this matter falls within the competence of the Regions. We must commit ourselves regardless of the remit on the subject. On the other hand, I do not have figures for cultivated areas in 2020 with coated seeds. According to the beet growers sector, however, a first downward trend appears to be emerging. There seems to be an anticipation of the sector. In 2019, for 25% of the 60,000 hectares of sugar beet, neonicotinoid-coated seeds were still used. That's what I can tell you at this point. I would like to stress here, Mrs de Laveleye, the need to put an end to these derogations for next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u44	Minister, thank you for your answer. We can only rejoice at the decline in the trend. We'll see if this decline is confirmed. According to the information I collected, 30% of beet seed was coated. For your part, you mentioned 25%. Whatever the number, it remains significant. However, beyond the good intention of no longer granting a derogation next year, the sector must be acted upon and equipped to survive and even strengthen with a crop without these pesticides. It is not possible to obtain information on the studies that have been carried out, on what has been put in place to find solutions to this problem. To get out of this situation is one thing, but – I repeat – we have to give the tools to farmers. So we're very worried. It must be noted that Belgium remains the largest consumer of pesticides per useful area at European level and that, in our country, derogations are granted very easily, without systematic risk analysis. I hear your good will, but there is little evidence that as of next year there will be no derogation for these products, whose effects on pollinators and probably on our health have been demonstrated. We are concerned about the lack of concrete solutions one year before the next plantings. We are therefore dissatisfied, even if we hear your goodwill and the fact that there was a decrease in the use of these pesticides in 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u45	Mr President, I intend to do my job but not that of others. As far as studies and research are concerned, these are powers which depend on the regions. I invite you, Mrs de Laveleye, to contact your regional colleagues so that they can question the competent ministers to see what studies will be commissioned to anticipate the neonicotinoid-free sugar crop. It's their job, not mine! In addition, I would ask you to pay attention to what you indicate, Madame de Laveleye. In your reply and the look of nothing, you argue that we would be a country that would very easily grant exemptions without risk analysis. That's not true! It's even a fake news! When a request for derogation is submitted, a scientific committee meets and carries out the risk analysis. It measures the impact on plant health. To say that exemptions are granted without a risk analysis is completely wrong. If you wish, I can provide you with the entire procedure to document it. It is even a duty to pass on to you the whole procedure related to derogations, which are quite rare for our country and which are always based on a risk analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u46	Minister, we will therefore ask our regional colleagues about the status of the studies. You yourself prescribed the study to find alternatives. That's why we come back to you with this question. You had considered it or even planned it. We are not going to argue now about the type of authorizations that are given. I have had access to some figures which showed me that we are rather one of the countries which most easily issue authorisations on a European scale, but that will be the subject of another question at another time. At the federal level, we were told we had a study. We don't have it yet. In a year's time, it is hoped that these neonicotinoids will no longer be used. It is also hoped that everything is put in place by the actors concerned to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u47	Minister, I tabled this question on March 9, a few days before the National Security Council announced exceptional measures in relation to the VOCID-19, which arrived as a tsunami. He covered all the other issues, and rightly so. I must tell you that I hesitated to ask this question orally today. Indeed, our committee resumes its work in a more or less normal way, with an evolution towards videoconferencing. I am not a Member of Parliament who asks questions to make figures, but, as you also know, I am an elected representative of rural life, coming from a region that you know well. I am concerned about the fate of farmers and the agricultural issue. On March 9, I had been worried about news reports about this parasitic disease, besnoitiosis. You have to take your breath to say the name. It is not very well known, but it is nevertheless extremely dangerous. So I decided to ask for your opinion on this issue to see how we are dealing with this danger. Moreover, as you know, the first cases were detected in Vierves-sur-Viroin, in my commune. More reason to be particularly attentive to it, for my part. But we know that other epidemics have affected the livestock sector in recent decades. We know the ravages that this can cause on livestock and on economic activity itself. In general, this disease is rather confined to southern Europe. She's not usual in our house. It is a parasitic disease that is contagious for cattle. It is caused by a parasite and is transmitted by insect bites. After inoculation by the bite, the parasite multiplys, invades the organs and forms thousands of small parasitic cysts, which can persist throughout the life of the bovine. This disease can have many symptoms and consequences: fever, shortness of breath, hot and painful skin, lacrimation and congestion of mucous membranes, edema in different places, lasting skin thickening, appearance of cysts on the eye, weight loss until the bovine death. Today, no vaccine is available to control this disease, but hasty screening can help control its progress. Currently, the only measure that I am aware of is the free AFSCA screening test. Minister, what is the analysis of the situation according to the AFSCA? How many cases have been detected so far in our country? In which regions? What measures does the AFSCA recommend or recommend with your administration? Is it necessary, as some have said, to slaughter animals with this parasitic disease or to consider other alternatives to this extreme solution? Is the Health Fund adequately equipped to deal with a possible besnoitiosis epidemic? Finally, what would be the conditions for any compensation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u48	Thank you, Mr. Delizée. I particularly like the oral questions with Mr Ducrame. We always learn new things.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u49	Mr President, Mr Delizée, thank you for this important issue. It is true that we are from neighbouring rural areas. If, for centuries, besnoitiosis has been a disease that is mainly present in southern Europe, it can be seen that it is no longer necessarily confined to southern Europe and has spread to other European countries. I don't know if it's related to climate change. Since May 2019, three households have been identified in Belgium. It is a disease that is not transmissible to man. Even if it is a disease that causes the animals to suffer, it is rarely lethal. But the economic losses are significant, it must be stressed. Indeed, maintaining a sick animal that suffers from besnoitiosis will cost seven times more than sanitation. The approved animal disease control associations (Arsia in Wallonia and DGZ in Flanders) have made breeders and veterinary practitioners aware of the risks of the introduction of besnoitiosis following the purchase of cattle from risk regions. These risk regions may be as close as France, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Switzerland. Since January 2018, Arsia has also put in place a collective vigilance action. When purchased, the IBR blood sample is thus used to test for free any cattle imported from these risk countries. If the disease is identified, support is provided to the breeder in consultation with the veterinarian to develop a remediation plan. A set of biosecurity measures is also proposed to the breeder in order to eliminate the diseased animal and prevent the spread of the disease. With regard to the financial support that could be provided to the three farmers affected, the Health Fund is currently unable to intervene. This disease is not on the list of animal diseases established by the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) or on the lists adopted by the European Union. At this point, any funding would simply be illegal. Your question led me to question the European Commissioner and the OIE in writing about the reasons, given the evolution of this disease throughout Europe, which is the president of the continued exclusion of this disease from this list. I'll come back to you when the answers are received, which I'll pass on to you. I have also made my colleague Willy Borsus, the Walloon Minister of Agriculture, aware of the possibilities of economic aid, the latter being the exclusive responsibility of the Regions. The Health Fund, however, supports the research project on this disease, implemented by Arsia since 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u50	Thank you very much for your answers, Minister. The subject was worth a question. Of course, I do not want to lead the general atmosphere, but, as you said, it is a matter of being extremely attentive and preventive in this kind of situation. You're talking about three outbreaks in Belgium, I don't know if that represents a significant number of animals. I hear you'll be paying attention to it, as well as the AFSCA. Preventive measures must, of course, be taken to prevent this from spreading widely and the situation becoming difficult to control or manage. There is not yet a Health Fund intervention because the list of recognized diseases needs to be updated. It is a process that is slow and requires experts. We must adapt to the changing situation. We will see on the side of the Walloon Region whether there are any aids for farmers who are affected by this disease.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u51	I would like to recall the Rules, which provide for two minutes per question, two minutes for the minister's answer and one minute for the reply. The goal is to reach the end of the list of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u52	Mr President, Minister, in February the Environment and Health Support Point published a study of the blood and urine of 428 young Flemish people. That survey revealed a lot of disturbing figures. In your answer to a question from Mr Gijbels, I heard you just now explain that the maximum residue is not exceeded, but the research mentioned shows that this is not always true, because in the blood and urine of our young people high and even too high levels of chemicals exceed the international guide values. In particular, it relates to pulverine, which was found in 42% of urine samples. You have already taken action, as individuals are no longer allowed to buy that product in Belgium. I wonder whether that research result also requires you to take measures with regard to professional users. Minister, how do you feel about a general prohibition on the use of fertilizers? Next year, the use of satsumas will also be on Europe's agenda. The initial 15-year extension was reduced to five years and is again ahead in 2021. What is your position on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u53	On my initiative, Mrs Creemers, Belgium was one of the nine European countries that voted against the extension of the authorisation of arthropods at European level in the autumn of 2017. Unfortunately, we could not reach a qualified majority at that time. I note that Germany seems to have evolved on the issue. We are continuing our lobbying work at European level. In any case, a European ban by 2022 is no longer excluded. We have also, as you pointed out, drastically reduced the number of permitted herbicides for amateurs. No less than 104 synthetic herbicides of the herbicides that were on the market at the time, including satsumas, are now prohibited. However, as you rightly point out, there are a number of studies which can only appeal to us: there are still too many doubts and it is not possible to doubt when it comes to consumer health. I am also seeing a growing number of national initiatives to ban arthropods among professionals. I am thinking of Austria, Malta and more recently Luxembourg. The policy of the federal government is currently focused exclusively on combating the coronavirus epidemic. That is why, in my opinion, it is not legally possible to legislate for a ban to be extended to professionals. Given the many identified risks to public health, it seems legitimate to me to develop a gradual ban and a transitional measure. Therefore, the next government will have to impose a ban on arthropods, provided that there is an adequate phasing-out for the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u54	Minister, I can only be very happy with your answer. Keep pulling that cart in Europe. I am very glad that the lobby is beginning to move towards the positive side. It would be an absolute victory if we could get that ban done by 2021. I know it would only start in 2022, but the decision will have to be taken in 2021. At Belgian level, of course, we are asking for Malta, Luxembourg and Austria to be followed. If that is not possible from the government, I suggest that we make and submit a legislative proposal ourselves. If you support us, the proposal will make it. In the meantime, at least bet on the alternatives. Bio-farming shows that it really can be done differently and that it can be done without grapefruit. If you can already order studies that show the alternatives, it will make us move forward faster when the legislative proposal comes up. I am very grateful for your two answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u55	Mr President, Minister, although it is not yet certain, more and more voices are going to say that the spread of viruses and all kinds of diseases often comes from markets where bushmeat is consumed or sold.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u56	Excuse me, a little question. Didn't we anticipate that all the coronavirus issues would be joined?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u57	I didn't get that information. Here, it's not about the coronavirus, it's about bush meat and viruses – I don't know which ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u58	Yes, but this issue of bushmeat is linked – from my point of view – to all the questions about the transmission of the virus by bushmeat.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u59	The question's gonna be bigger.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u60	I turn to the secretariat to find out what has been planned. Can we take all these questions now, that is the meaning of your proposal, Mr. Ducrame?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u61	Since there are many questions about coronavirus, I have planned a consolidated response, as we had planned with the secretariat to avoid prolonging the meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u62	Mrs. Sneppe, I don't know how you estimate this yourself. Can your question be linked to the questions about the coronavirus?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u63	Mr President, I think my question is broader than just the corona virus. I fear, when my question is taken up in its entirety, that in general I will not receive an answer from the Minister to my specific questions. That is why I would prefer to ask my question as a separate question, of course if the Minister is prepared to answer my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u64	I move, Minister, that Ms. Sneppe and Ms. de Laveleye ask their question. If you don't know how to answer, a written answer could follow. Does that suit you? Mrs. Sneppe, can you agree to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u65	Better a written answer than no answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u66	I'll give, as we planned, a clustered response on the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u67	We will then resume on the coronavirus, but this question is not about the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u68	Would that be indelicate to parliamentarians, because I think there is only one extra-coronavrius question left – the question of Mrs Creemers. Could we imagine asking the questions that make the virus / coronavirus / bushmeat link after the last remaining question – that is, in five minutes – to have all the coronavirus questions, including the two questions that make the connection with the bushmeat?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u69	I'm a little surprised by your proposal. After all, there are other questions on the agenda. Mrs Cre emers has questions about regional food security and about the oak processionrups.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u70	Mr President, my question about bushmeat has nothing to do with the coronavirus. Rather than about corona, my question is about the illegality of bushmeat as opposed to accepting its sale.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u71	Mr Ducrame, I propose that she ask her question directly, if you do not know how to answer it right away, I propose that you do so in writing. That way, we continue and do not waste time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u72	I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u73	Mrs. Sneppe, go ahead with your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u74	Minister, bushmeat can bring communicable diseases. Bushmeat has also been in the news several times. For example, our airport in Zaventem came up with the news that 44.4 tonnes of bushmeat arrives every year, but also in the Brussels district of Matonge you can easily get meat from tropical wild animals. Its sale is prohibited, but importers still escape customs control. Maybe the meat even came with African diplomats. Who knows? Since such meat may bring with it communicable viruses from the jungle, such as corona, but also ebola and HIV, I have some questions about this. What will you do to absolutely ban bushmeat here, to tighten up controls and to punish them more severely? Has any such meat been confiscated outside the airport? Is there gonna be a disarray in the Matonge district? Will you take the lead in the international context in banning and sanctioning such trade, not only in view of possible communicable diseases, but also of the animal suffering associated with them?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u75	Mr President, Minister, a study of the FPS presented in December 2019 shows that 44,400 kg of bush meat arrive every year at Brussels airport. Recall, if necessary, that bushmeat is prohibited on the territory of the European Union because of the risk that bushmeat will contain pathogens and thus pose risks to human health. More than 75% of human diseases are of animal origin. In the current context, marked by the emergence and spread of Coronavirus Covid-19 (a disease that has been transmitted to humans by bats and/or pangolin), it is essential to recall the danger of trade and consumption of meat of wild animals to human health. The bush meat hunt also has an environmental negative impact, as it leads to local extinction of hunted wild animals. In December 2019, various actors including the WWF have already called on the Belgian government and the aviation sector to take active action against this phenomenon. So, Minister, my questions are as follows: - What penalties are provided for traders selling illegal bushmeat? Will controls be strengthened? - Could AFSCA sponsor a study (including sociological elements and surveys of pathways of introduction) to better understand the contours of the sale and consumption of bushmeat in the European Union? - Are we aware of the magnitude of the risks to human health posed by this illegal importation of bushmeat? If not, is a study of these risks planned? - Do you intend to develop and implement a national action plan (including by strengthening customs, raising awareness among travellers, etc.) to end this illegal trade that endangers both our own health and our environment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u76	Mr President, if Mrs Sneppe agrees, I propose to send her a detailed answer in writing today, because, as a result of a mistake on our part, I do not have all the answers to her questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u77	All right. I assume that Ms. de Laveleye will also be able to obtain a written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u78	Mr President, I have to agree to that. I can understand that a mistake has happened, but if the order specified by our services is not respected, then that is indeed a problem. I expect the written reply and I hope that it contains more answers than I usually get.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u79	Minister, it will not be long before the nasty hairs of the oak processionrups reappear, especially in my province and in the Kempen. Much is being done to combat that caterpillar in the most natural way possible. For example, I read in the newspaper today that in Hasselt there are massive nest boxes hanging to attract the natural enemies of the caterpillar. Even though the problem of the oak procession caterpillar lies mainly with the municipal and regional policy levels, I would like to talk about the product NeemProtect, based on the active substance azadirachtin. The product would be licensed or about to be licensed, although it is not undisputed. It is a broad-spectrum biocide that also affects water-bound fauna and stays in nature much longer than the well-known bacillus thuringiensis. Mr. Secretary, is that already authorised with us? Who can use that in Belgium? How does this fit in with the strategy of the Länder prohibiting public authorities from using such products? How does this fit in the integrated pest management where all alternatives are first used to switch to a chemical only afterwards? At the level of the Länder and local authorities, natural alternatives to the control of oak processionrups are being studied. What about NeemProtect at the federal level?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u80	Mrs Creemers, azadirachtin is used as a biocidal product for the control of oak processionrups. Biocides used outside agriculture are the responsibility of my colleague responsible for the environment, but the product in question is also used in agriculture as a plant protection product. It is therefore defined in Belgian legislation as pesticide for agricultural use. The substance, which is authorised at European level, is used as a protective insecticide in several vegetable growings. It is recognised for organic farming and may only be used by professionals. The federal government has adopted a plan to reduce pesticides and biopesticides. The aim of this plan is to significantly reduce the risk and use of pesticides and biocidal products. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the use of pesticides by the public authorities, like the integrated control of harmful organisms, is the responsibility of the regions. That is why I do not have ongoing or planned studies on the oak procession caterpillar. An alternative to chemical treatments could be the use of pheromones. In the context of the project Euphresco-IPSN2, the International Plant Sentinel Network, the Public Health Office has financed the project BPSN, the Belgian Plant Sentinel Network. It contains a study on the presence of the oak procession caterpillar. I call for a genuine European strategy. Local control of the organism is pointless given its diffuse geographical distribution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u81	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I understand that the substance azadirachtin is licensed for agricultural use. Can the substance be used outside agriculture for the control of the oak procession caterpillar? Should I ask Mrs Marghem that question, or can you give me an answer to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u82	I cannot answer more fully questions for a matter that falls outside my jurisdiction, but rather those of the Minister of the Environment and those of the Regions. Mr President, I could simply refer a number of questions without even answering them because I am often asked questions for which I am not responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u83	Mr Minister, I would like to put the question to Mrs Marghem. I welcome the fact that alternatives are being sought not only at the level of cities and municipalities but also at European level for the control of the oak procession caterpillar, especially if it is possible in a natural way. We'll ask our questions there, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u84	We come to a topical debate on the various aspects of the coronavirus crisis in relation to your powers, Minister. We're gonna group up all the questions. First, a question from Mrs Creemers, but I suggest that you ask your four questions one after the other. This is the simplest thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u85	Mr President, Minister, I will try to follow the order of my questions. Since the introduction of border controls, we have again seen images of the last century, namely traffic jams at the border. Trucks with live animals are also in those traffic jams. We were wondering whether there have already been specific problems with the transport of live animals from or to Belgium. How is it ensured from the BFSA that these transports are carried out with respect for the animals? As far as the BFSA is concerned, we understand that food safety controls must now be carried out in a very different way or to a different degree. Especially in rest homes and hospitals can no longer be checked for food safety, but the last thing hospitals and residential care centres can use now are food poisonings. How's that control going now? At what frequency are hospitals and residential care centres usually checked? What frequency does that happen now? The files relating to food safety breaches shall be forwarded to the public prosecutor. Does that happen as usual now? So what is the impact of the corona crisis on the controls? My second question concerns controls in slaughterhouses. I have heard that this can also be done through videoconferencing today, but I am wondering whether everything that is to be seen will be seen. My third question concerns regional food security. A number of questions have already been asked, but last Friday there was also an open letter from a number of scientists to Prime Minister Wilmès and Prime Minister Wilmès. There were some very interesting questions in there. Fevia, the Farmers' Union and the FWA are already asking to recognise them as a vital sector and to take the necessary crisis measures to ensure continuity of supply. They go much further and ask for an interfederal task force to be set up, to plan and implement a resilient food policy for our country, and to draw up a contingency plan for a minimum level of solidarity in food security. They also had a very interesting suggestion. They suggested that the National Security Council should consider whether all families could be provided with vegetable seeds, so that everyone could set up a vegetable garden in the short term. I thought that was a very interesting suggestion and I wonder what you think of it as Minister of Agriculture. My final question is very close to us as ecologists. We see very small producers who are normally dependent on their market for catering and farm markets. They both fall silent at a time when there is a lot of demand for short-chain food. Have you considered asking for an exception for small producers who can sell directly to customers in the short-chain system, but who did not do so just before the crisis? How can we achieve this in the short term? Are you prepared to work out accelerated and relaxed procedures for those producers, so that they can start work in the very short term, through, for example, pop-up farm shops, to match supply and demand? Do you have other options to have these small producers deliver and sell directly to their customers? How can the BFSA help us with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u86	The provisions of Article 12 of the A.R.A. of 10 Nov 2005 shall determine that:...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (...) Contributions are due per calendar year (...) regardless of the duration of the activity during the year. Several operators (both profit-making and non-profit-making) had to interrupt their activities due to the health crisis. Operators request that AFSCA be able to increase their contributions, taking into account the period of non-activity attributable to the crisis. What is your position with respect to this request?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u87	Minister, we all know that the corona crisis leads to many economic problems in almost all sectors. The same applies to the meat sector and slaughterhouses. An internal survey of the sector shows that about a third of the farms and slaughterhouses will suffer from a short-term lack of cash flow. Moreover, a number of companies had a limited financial margin prior to the outbreak of the corona crisis. I am receiving signals from the sector that companies are unhappyly confronted with the consequences of their financially precarious position. As you know, many mandatory inspections by the BFSA take place in this sector. Those inspections must be reimbursed. Since a number of companies and slaughterhouses are in short supply, they are not always able to pay the invoices in good time. I hear that the BFSA reacts by increasing the invoice by amounts that increase to a doubling, which puts these companies in a downward financial spiral. However, this is clearly a case of force majeure. As far as I know, the BFSA itself has a number of financial reserves, which do not really justify such increases in the invoice. Firstly, can you give an update on the current late payment of livestock companies to the BFSA? Secondly, why is the late payment of these firms not regarded as force majeure for inspections? Thirdly, will you, as Minister, take an initiative not to further increase late payments by farms in the livestock sector by fines or lingering interest? Fourthly, are measures also being taken at the BFSA to help farms in the meat sector that face a lack of cash flow in meeting their financial obligations? This could be done, for example, by dealing more flexibly with payment deadlines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u88	Mr President, Minister, a study by Science shows that both cats and ferrets are infected by the COVID-19 virus. It is highly likely that these animals will come into contact with a human being who has already contracted the infection, thereby transferring the disease to the animals. In response to this research by Science, the World Health Organization has decided to investigate this further, so that we can ensure that the spread is limited. Minister, is our country also planning to launch investigations? Are there any discussions on this with our universities? Will measures be taken regarding contact between animals and humans? What are your findings in the study of Science, which I'm sure you've read? How does the federal government respond to that study?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u89	Mr President, in Mrs Sneppe's question, there are two references to coronavirus. That is why I believe it has been included in the debate. We will ensure that the Member receives her response before the end of the day. Country note is in an extremely difficult situation. The National Security Council, on the advice of eminent scientists, has been forced to take radical decisions, indispensable to protect the health of Belgians. This crisis has a significant economic impact. We have already exchanged on this subject two weeks ago in joint committees on the Economy and Social Affairs. The necessary measures adopted by the National Security Council also create a number of constraints for our farmers, our businesses and our administrations. Before I answer the questions, I want to pay tribute to the work of the staff of the Federal Food Chain Security Agency, who continue to carry out their mission, which is important during the period we are going through, to protect the health of consumers. I will have the opportunity to return to the modalities for the continuation of their mission by answering the questions asked by Mrs Creemers. I have no doubt that you will join me in this tribute. Let me now turn to the specific questions put by Members. Mrs Creemers asked about the impact of the COOVID-19 pandemic on agricultural activity and on our food sovereignty. Since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in Belgium, the federal government has taken the necessary measures to enable essential sectors of our economy to continue to operate despite the general lockdown measures. The National Security Council, chaired by Prime Minister Wilmès and advised by several working groups, decided on the measures needed to protect the population while guaranteeing food supplies and the preservation of essential activities. It is in that context that agriculture was recognised as an essential sector by the Ministryal Decree of the Home Office of 18 March 2020. I would also like to thank our farmers once again. They are doing everything they can to avoid any risk of food shortages in our country, despite the context. At this stage, agriculture is part of the sectors which are allowed to continue their activities. However, the conditions of social discrimination must be respected. As I told you last week, I am not a member of the National Security Council. It is my colleague, the Minister for the Interior, who issued the ministerial decision with the modalities to be observed in the context of the necessary sanitary measures taken in the fight against the COOVID-19 pandemic. I therefore invite you to contact him for more details. Ever since the lockdown measures in the Ministerial Decision were applied, I have been very attentive to the questions of the Agrofont and other operators in the food chain. The federal government has also made several decisions in this respect. Moreover, since 18 March, the Economic Risk Management Group has been mandated by the Prime Minister's Chancery to manage the economic and macroeconomic risk associated with the COVID 19 crisis. That mandate shall include, in particular, continuous monitoring of the economic situation and monitoring of the continuity of economic activities for the critical sectors. It will also be responsible for drawing up proposals for immediate measures and post-crisis measures, as well as for supporting both supply and demand in all economic sectors. We also made progress at European level yesterday: at a teleconference with European Commissioner for Agriculture Janusz Wojciechowski, together with my colleagues from the Regions, I received serious answers to our requests to activate European mechanisms, for example on the private storage of goods. Mrs Creemers had questions about animal transport among other things. This is a matter of animal welfare, which falls within the exclusive competence of the Regions. Although I am very sensitive to the issue of animal welfare, I cannot, of course, comment on policies on which I have no control whatsoever. Let me turn to the question of the controls carried out by the AFSCA and the cases referred to the courts. As a result of the coronavirus epidemic, the Agency's control plan was, of course, amended. By activating its business continuity plan, the BFSA has taken care to reduce the risk of exposure to the staff and to protect the health of the consumer. If no routine inspection is currently carried out in the kitchens of hospitals and nursing and nursing homes, the AFSCA monitors non-compliances and significant complaints. The same applies to foodborne infections. Import controls and certification activities are, of course, continuing, for example, the necessary preventive measures in terms of social distancing are essential. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, with regard to routine checks, hospitals and nursing and nursing homes are subject to checks every two years if meals are prepared for distribution and every three years if there is a distribution without preparation. The resumption of routine inspections will be assessed in the light of the evolution of the epidemic and the measures to be imposed by the National Security Council. With regard to the follow-up by prosecutors to the files transmitted by the Agency during this period, I invite you to address the Minister of Justice. Many establishments are closed in the Horeca and in doing so, the first figures available to me show that the AFSCA is currently running around 20% of its normal activity for these routine checks. As regards expertise in slaughterhouses, both ante-mortem and post-mortem, AFSCA informs me that there is no change in the pre-crisis situation. Only inspections carried out as part of a control plan are put on hold. Your last question concerns the important question of the markets of our small producers. Which establishments can remain open during the corona crisis and under what conditions will be decided in the National Security Council, in which I am not seat. The ministerial decisions transposing these decisions and determining their practical details are also taken by the Minister for the Interior. I therefore invite you to ask him your questions about these modalities. For the rest, as far as my powers are concerned, I am extremely sensitive to the situation of our operators. Following the adoption of this Decision, the BFSA also introduced a series of facilitations for operators. First, establishments in the Horeca sector that have AFSCA authorization may continue their business as a caterer, with a system of take-out and home deliveries, without having to request specific registration. We have made every effort to simplify the lives of operators in this context. In addition, the "marginal and restricted" rule, which you know, has been temporarily suspended. This means that more than 30% of production can be sold to other food companies, and that there is no longer a limit on the number of establishments operated by the same operator to which food can be distributed. Ms. de Laveleye and Mr. From Caluwé, who asked me about the payment of contributions – or rather, fees – to AFSCA by operators during this period of pandemic. As Minister of Independents, of course, I am extremely aware. You know the steps we have taken. So I am currently in exchange with AFSCA to discuss with it the possibility of postponement. I will come back to you as soon as we can put my intentions into practice. Mrs Farih, you are also asking an important question about the possible existence of the risk of transfer of COOVID-19 to animals and the possible transfer of those infected animals back to humans. As you know, the issue of the transfer of animals to humans falls within the competence of my colleague, the Minister for Health. I think, however, that it is important to take stock of what is at the heart of your question about the current scientific studies and the way in which we want to coordinate them at Belgian level. On 26 February and 18 March 2020 two dogs were found positive at COVID-19 in Hong Kong. As soon as that first human infection on animal was announced, I asked the BFSA to consider the preventive measures to be taken after the discovery of the first risk of infection in Hong Kong. Furthermore, on 18 March 2020, the BFSA informed the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine of the University of Liège about the presence of COVID-19 viral RNA in the secretions of a cat showing clinical digestive symptoms. That cat also belonged to a person infected with COVID-19. Nine days after the onset of clinical symptoms, the general condition of that cat began to improve. The Agency immediately provided me with the information and advised the Coronavirus Scientific Committee, which is responsible nationally for the risk assessment of VOCID-19. The latter transmitted the information to the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE), the European Commission and the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA). An Urgent Council was also requested from the AFSCA Scientific Committee to formulate an assessment of the risk of human infection of the pet animal and vice versa. It shows that "the risk is negligible compared to the human risk of infection through human transmission". For the time being, there is no evidence that domestic animals could therefore transmit the virus. Following this opinion, on 31 March, the AFSCA informed me of the publication on its website of a very comprehensive FAQ on this subject. The Agency also recommended a series of good practices for the entire veterinary profession. Although animal welfare does not fall within my remit – as I have already stated on several occasions in committee – I would like to point out that there is no question of neglecting or abandoning your pet. Scientifically, there is no evidence that a pet could transmit the disease to humans. On 9 April, a working group "Risk Assessment Group VOCID Animals" was set up and supplemented by observers from the administration and Sciensano. Its aim is to centralize the new information and knowledge provided continuously about coronavirus in animals, both in Belgium and abroad. On the other hand, I have asked that contacts be made with my European counterparts on this subject, in order to exchange all information as best as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u90	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I was somewhat surprised that my question was referred to your committee because I had addressed it to the Minister of Health. However, I was given the signal that I had to be with you. Your answer shows that you have taken further steps. I had received the signal from several asylum seekers that a lot of pets were brought in because of fear of contamination from these animals. With a view to animal welfare, there could be more awareness of this at federal level. I will submit my question again to the government of Public Health, because I think it is important that these animals should be able to keep their warm nest, without creating fear among the people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u91	Minister, I support your words of thanks to farmers, because they continue to produce our food in difficult conditions. We can't thank them enough for that. They're heroes too. However, I expect a little more from your cabinet and the BFSA. Minister De Crem is currently effectively competent for a number of restrictions imposed by the National Security Council, but also within those restrictions there are opportunities to help our farmers even better. We know that they are currently unable to organise markets and that some of their sales have fallen away now that the catering industry is stalling. That is why I wanted to know, when we think out of the box, how together we can speed up these farmers to a pop-up shop or temporary farm shop. There are still a number of questions about seasonal workers, but I will ask them to Mrs Muylle. You say that as much supply and demand as possible is being reconciled. I'd like to make a small suggestion. There are tons of fries potatoes in danger of being destroyed because there will be no festivals this summer. Perhaps you can share a number of recipes via your communication channels to make fries at home, so that supply and demand are even better in line with each other. You mentioned a number of relaxations at the BFSA. We can only be grateful for that. We have made a number of suggestions that could help small producers. I would like to draw your attention to this once again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u92	Mr President, as a direct link to Mrs Creemers' speech, we hear and welcome the flexibilities made by AFSCA for farmers, but I will go back to your answer to my question – that is, the payment of contributions by operators. You say you are currently working with AFSCA – which is a good thing – but you have used the words "relay of contributions". However, I was wondering to what extent, exceptionally this year, these contributions could not be increased, rather than deferred, on the basis of the losses caused by these operators – some of whom have found themselves without income. This may be considered, it is not provided for in the Royal Decree, but you may find with the AFSCA a way to suspend this order or to find ways and means to facilitate the lives of these operators so that they can keep the little that allows them to restart their activity as quickly as possible. Rather than report, majorer, I'll send you back the ball and we'll continue our follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u93	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In my question I had also asked the BFSA about the current late payment of private sector companies. I do not think you answered that question. I would therefore ask you to provide the answer in writing. I would also urge you not to forget the sector and continue the talks to see whether certain measures in the area of late payments can be taken and also to see whether the increase in payments can be dealt with more flexibly with fines and delays. In any case, it is a good thing that you are entering into the discussions, for which I thank you in advance. The sector, which is currently being seriously affected, can certainly use these small measures. They will be an important aid to the undertakings concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear once again, Mrs Farih, that animal welfare is no longer the responsibility of the federal government. Having said that, we have taken all the steps, together with the Scientific Committee, to guarantee statements made at press conferences or through websites such as the AFSCA website, for example, that there is no evidence, today, of the risk of contamination of pets to humans. We've communicated. If we have to do it again, we'll do it again. But I repeat that animal welfare is the responsibility of the Regions. Mrs. Creemers, you're right. We make every effort and are in constant contact with the Agrofont. There are weekly meetings with farmers in the North and South to see where the needs are, to help them in seasonal work, harvests. We are looking at all the measures that can be taken to help this vital sector. With regard to the question of remuneration, I would like to remind you that, as Minister of Independents, I have introduced the right of access, payment facilitation, carry-overs, exemptions or contribution reductions. So you can imagine that I'm not going to take with one hand what I gave with the other. I know that it is necessary for operators to have maximum liquidity, but I cannot announce a measure that has not yet been finalised. I am currently working with AFSCA on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u95	Minister, we are, of course, looking forward to these plans. It is very good that you are in weekly consultation with farmers. I am suggesting that we also include the Short Chain Support Point in that consultation, because that really has very pressing questions from small farmers who do not currently have a market, as well as asking for concrete solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u96	There are many concrete things that are being done! What do you think? A lot of demands made by the agro-front (Boerenbond, Walloon Federation of Agriculture,...) were met, very concretely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-21-55-commissie-ic151x.u97	That is very good; I would merely suggest that the representatives of the short chain should be involved even more.
