ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to welcome you to this committee meeting. With regard to the regulation of work, I propose that we use the system that we have followed this morning. I use the order in which the questions are submitted, but I do so by the party. This means in this case that Mr Rigot will be the first to speak, but I would ask him to put all the questions on behalf of the PS in ten minutes. In this way each group will be discussed, everyone will be able to ask the necessary questions and then the Minister will be able to answer them. Is everyone okay with that? This morning, it worked very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u2	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to everyone. I will speak for one part, and then my colleague Ludivine Dedonder will finish the speech of the Socialist Party, if you will. Minister, the crisis that we are going through is affecting each and every one of us. It shakes our certainty, and generates our greatest fears. It imposes a sense of responsibility and solidarity on everyone. This test unfortunately saves no one and also affects those who were already suffering terrible hardships, in particular the staff who are currently managing the crisis of reception and all applicants for international protection. While the teams are exhausted, they still need to look for additional places to manage the crisis. They have to cope with a difficult overcapacity and a precarious reception, under military tents for some. To know many of them, Madam Minister, I can tell you that these men and women are afraid today and are going to work fear in the belly. Is that justified? That's another question. In any case, they feel like they're going to unarmed combat. They go there to ensure their mission and take care of everyone: residents of reception facilities, citizens, but also the staff of the structures. I take my hat off them and I can tell them that I am very proud to have worked with them for many years, whether they are in Fedasil, Caritas, the Red Cross, Samusocial or ICRÉ. Madam Minister, as you have understood, I am going to talk to you today about the forgotten of the crisis, the ones we are talking about less, I think wrongly. Of these men and women who go to fight, of those residents who are confined in difficult conditions, of those forgotten closed centres, of those who are waiting for answers in their procedure, and of those who are not in Belgium today, but who are in deplorable conditions elsewhere in Europe or at its borders. Madam Minister, first of all, as far as Fedasil is concerned, we know that the situation is difficult. I told you. We saw him. There is a saturation of the network and, as elsewhere, measures to be taken. Can you tell me if any pre-entry controls have been taken? What are they? Can they guarantee the good health of the controlled people and therefore protect the entire network? What preventive measures have been taken at the reception facilities level to provide the equipment, organization, processes, training and framework for potential personnel to respond to this difficult situation? Does staff have the necessary equipment? Of course, we are talking about masks, like everywhere else, as well as the aprons and other equipment needed to work from a social distance. Is an action plan developed within the host structures? Like many, I have heard that there are now cases of VOCID-19 in reception facilities. My colleague, Ludivine Dedonder, will speak on this subject earlier. Do you confirm that? If so, is an action plan implemented? What is he? Minister, is there a task force between all partners to provide the best, most efficient, most humane, and most responsible responses to this situation? If VOCID-19 is present in reception centres, are you considering quarantines of reception facilities? Are you considering creating specific reception facilities for this quarantine? Now that the Office for Foreigners (OE) and the Arrival Centre are finally reopened – I heard this good news – how will you guide new applicants for international protection? Will they join existing structures? Will they be oriented towards other structures? Will checks be carried out upstream before they are integrated into the host network, in order to avoid as much as possible the risk of bringing positive people into structures that are now protected? What do you think of the attitude of some CPAS who refuse today when they are Fedasil's partners, to assume their role at the level of ILAs, on the pretext of the dangerous risk they face? They endanger the very reception process. They also jeopardize the need to accommodate the most vulnerable in individual situations. I have spoken to you about the reception centres I will also talk to you about the asylum procedure. With regard to the registration of new applications for international protection, we were convicted because it was illegal to suspend these procedures, which have since been resumed in a computerised manner. I also hear that the Aliens Office is going to make an appointment. I must admit that I am quite surprised by these measures which, in my view, do not go far enough. Not everyone has the necessary equipment to access the information. What measures are being taken to make this effective system accessible to all applicants? It is a right to apply for international protection. What measures are also being taken to do so and to ensure the normal flow and not to leave at the door of the host network and Belgium those waiting for their application? In my view, the Aliens Office is a front-line service which must guarantee its essential tasks and therefore maintain registration within the time limits and with respect for everyone. Considering that there are reasons why you have closed some reception and registration processes, what about the management of the procedure? What about individual interviews? Is the procedural process suspended? What about accessibility of services to plaintiffs' lawyers? Several European countries have taken measures to automatically renew temporary residence permits or even regularise them. Are you considering something to that effect, minister? The closed centres assume the deprivation of liberty of many men and women. I wonder a lot about this deprivation of liberty. Does it still make sense today to keep in situations of strict, harsh, rigorous confinement people of whom it is well known that we will not be able to activate their voluntary return tomorrow? I guess it's hard to imagine this coming back. It is my responsibility that judges already order releases on the basis of the absence of any prospect of expulsion. Do you confirm that? It is also up to me that there may still be expulsions within the framework of the Dublin Agreement. Is that correct? If so, why? Is that justified? It is also my responsibility to deny access to parliamentarians in certain closed centre structures. I can understand the reasons for this at the health level. But how can we then guarantee our parliamentary oversight role? Let us not forget what is happening at the gates of Europe, in hotspot centres such as Lesbos, where terrible humanitarian crises are taking place. They are highlighted by Amnesty International, by Médecins sans frontières (MSF). It's time to act. Does Belgium intend to resume the relocation programme? Have you made contact with your counterpart to consider logistical, humanitarian support or to accommodate a number of these people in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, it is my responsibility that there are many dysfunctions in the Fedasil centre in Mouscron. Staff do not have masks or gloves, except when they manage to find them themselves. There is also no disinfection of premises, offices, telephones and toilets... In addition, a suspected person of VOCID-19 was also identified. Unfortunately, the director is under arrest, as are several staff members. The tasks are therefore not properly distributed. The personnel are delivered to themselves. He is overwhelmed, lost and feared for his health and that of his loved ones. Such a situation is unacceptable and unworthy. Minister, can you take a look at the Fedasil centre in Mouscron? Will hygiene measures be put in place to protect staff? Is the minimum number of agents present respected in order to operate the centre optimally?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Dedonder. Mr. Moutquin, did you understand the explanation at the beginning of the meeting? We group all the questions together by political group. So you have ten minutes to ask all the questions from the Ecolo-Groen group. You have four questions. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, I will ask my questions in a few minutes and my colleagues Wouter De Vriendt and Sarah Schlitz will follow. We have divided our speaking time in that order. As I did yesterday in the Committee on External Relations, I would like to begin by thanking the staff who are physically present in the House. It must be remembered that it is thanks to them that we manage to meet today. I would like once again to greet and thank them. As Mr Hervé Rigot pointed out, we are rightly talking about the forgotten of the crisis, perhaps the forgotten of our policies in recent years; I am referring to migrants. We are now paying for past migration policies that have set aside a whole series of people. I do not point to the personal responsibility of the minister, these are long-standing policies. My first question concerns the Fedasil reception centres. We have to remember that we were in a crisis of reception before this pandemic crisis. This crisis of reception has an impact on the management of the Fedasil centres today. The staff lacks masks, equipment. There is a great promiscuity in the Fedasil centres, where the rooms are not spaced, where the link between migrants is mandatory. So, have you put in place any possibilities for increasing the number of places? It seems there are some projects in progress. Where are we in terms of missing places? What is the status of the places that will be created? What medical equipment will be made available to the Fedasil centres? I agree with a question that has already been asked: are the ILA structures that allow the relocation of the most vulnerable people, such as elderly asylum seekers or asylum seekers suffering from pathologies, following the recommendations and continuing to set up reception places? Then I have a question that I filed at the time when the Aliens Office decided to close its records. In the meantime, action has been taken. I would like to say that I fully agree with and support the need for the protection of the staff of the Aliens Office. On the other hand, it was foolish to believe that leaving hundreds of people on the street without any access to housing or basic services would help fight the disease. This decision has been corrected in the meantime. But I do ask myself questions. How will this be implemented in terms of electronic registration? At what cost to asylum seekers? How many applications will be registered per day, for example? Then I wanted to talk to you about the closed centres. As you know, I often go to the closed centre to use my right of observation, in accordance with the Royal Decree of 2002. I went to the closed centre of 127bis just before the containment measures. I confess that I have been quite appalled and surprised by the few measures put in place in terms of health for the detainees in the closed centre. No safety instructions, hygiene measures translated only into English, Dutch, French, whereas they exist in the languages of the detainees; no soap made available. I'll give you the details. I think you've had access to it. Concern, and also concern about the legality of confinement. Are these closed centres still right, while the possibilities for expulsion are non-existent? Persons leaving closed centres continue to be ordered to leave the territory while the borders are closed. Moreover, and my colleague Sarah Schlitz will certainly speak about it, as parliamentarians, we are denied our right to control detention centres. There is therefore no parliamentary control of closed centres today. Neither NGOs nor parliamentarians can see what is happening there. I find this very worrying. Minister, how do you judge the legality of these closed centres? 300 people were released. Are you considering further releases? I have a special request. Kind of like what was done in prisons, could access to gsm packages be possible for these people? I come to the last subject, on the temporary stay. We have seen that different European countries have taken steps, especially for those called undocumented. I would like to see with you whether you are considering a measure inspired by Portugal to enable the tens of thousands of people who are in Belgium without rights to enjoy their rights. This can possibly be humanitarian in nature for a few months. I think it is really important, also for a health purpose, to be able to get these people out of the anonymity, the invisibility in which they are. They are in danger and ultimately endanger a collective strategy if left out. After that, more thought will have to be given to these people. I come to my last question. I agree with the question asked about Greece. I put it to Mr. Goffin yesterday and she was sent home, but I don't see her showing up. Indeed, we are very worried about the situation in the Greek islands, the hot spots. Contamination there could have catastrophic effects due to the lack of medical means. Are we considering relocating minors and vulnerable people to the Greek islands in Belgium? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u6	Madam Secretary, I have three questions for you. The first concerns the suspension of asylum applications. That was decided three weeks ago. This is, of course, a problem because in this way asylum seekers are actually sent out onto the streets, with all the health risks that this entails. At these times, this is irresponsible, regardless of the fact that the right of people to seek protection to apply for asylum is guaranteed by international law. That was just panic football. Fortunately, the registration of asylum applications has now been renewed. However, I have a few questions about this procedure. Appointments will now have to be made by e-mail and one will only be admitted to the DVZ's buildings with an appointment. Is there a distinction between vulnerable profiles and others? How does that happen? How will illiterates or people who do not have access to the Internet be able to get an appointment? Has any consideration ever been given to working with social distancing measures as is happening in other areas of our society? What about the capacity utilisation of the reception network? Is one looking for buffer places to be able to respect social distancing rules? My second question relates to the closed centres. The situation there is very tense, and that makes sense. A lot of people sit together on a small surface in detention. Also the hygienic conditions are not always optimal. It has been announced that people would be released from the closed centers by the corona context. How many people have already been released from the closed centres because of this measure? Are they providing shelter for these people? It is not a question of simply putting them out on the street without an alternative. Have there been incidents in the closed centres since 13 March? Has there been an outbreak of COVID-19 in one of the centres, the staff or the detainees? In the testimonies we heard some disturbing things about a number of closed centres. In some centres, prisoners sleep together in dormitories of 10 people whose beds are less than 1 meter apart. Workers do not have any protection in the distribution of medicinal products in closed centres. Camera phones are still being seized. Residents who are unable to buy a new cameraless cell phone must then use a shared cell phone without disinfecting the devices. There is also a problem with the visits of NGOs. My third and final question is about temporary emergency care for people without papers. We'd like to make an appeal to you. We want to make the proposal to avoid homelessness in all cases. There's no way people have to wander the streets today. There are people without papers in our country who have no housing. That is why we call for temporary emergency care for people without papers. We all know that this is already happening in the Brussels region, because the federal government is not funding, that is a discussion from the past. This is done in the Netherlands, where care is provided for people without papers. I would like to ask you the following questions: it is about something that I have heard in the Committee on Defence this morning. It's about reception for transmigrants on a military site in Tournai. Apparently that piste was on the table at some point but then disappeared again. Can you give us any further explanation on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u7	Mr President, my colleagues have already dealt well with the subject. I wanted to come with a specific first question about parliamentary visits to closed centres. On 25 March, I wanted to make a visit to the closed centre, in accordance with the Royal Decree, which provides that parliamentarians still have access to the centre from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. However, this access was denied to me. The management of the centre informed me that these were instructions from the Aliens Office and told me that this decision stemmed from the instructions given by the government in the context of the management of the VOCID-19 crisis. Madam Minister, I am extremely concerned about this denial of access, on the one hand, because it constitutes a flagrant violation of the Royal Order and, on the other hand, because, to date, no more control can take place in closed centres. Indeed, the controls of NGOs have also been suspended. In times of crisis, however, democratic control in closed centres is all the more essential. Minister, has an instruction been issued by the government or the Aliens Office to suspend the right of access of parliamentarians to closed centres? If so, on what legal basis? If not, do you confirm that the right of parliamentary access to closed centres remains guaranteed? In this case, what follow-up do you intend to give to this incident? My second question concerns VOCID-19 in closed centres. In the closed centre of Vottem, an inmate was placed in medical isolation for suspicion of VOCID-19. He was re-established as a community wing a week later without having been tested, which is quite worrying for the other inmates as well as for the staff. Minister, how many suspected cases of VOCID-19 have been detected in closed centres? Is placement in medical isolation systematic? How many cases have they been tested? What measures are being taken with regard to inmates who have shared rooms or common spaces with suspected cases of VOCID-19?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u8	Madam Minister, I share some of the questions raised by the previous groups. Today we see that our health and safety sectors are unseen in their efforts to ensure our health and safety. We see that all citizens respect the quarantine measures at home to avoid the risk of contamination. In that context, we were particularly disappointed to hear that you ordered the release of illegal immigrants. My fellow Members have already referred to it. According to reports, it's going to be about 40% of the illegals. We have already made work visits to such closed centres. There are often illegals who have committed criminal acts. Is it true that you gave the order to release those people? Where are they located? How are they being followed? Is it effective about criminal illegals? What facts did they commit? Where exactly were they released? Can we rightly conclude that these criminal illegals are now spread across our territory and move freely, without respect for the measures taken to avoid the risk of infection? How many people are we talking about exactly? What nationalities? What facts did they commit? How did you make the selection who could stay in the closed center and who was released? Why would you, right now, release criminal illegals? We think this is a totally wrong signal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u9	Before you go through that half an hour, no illegal criminals have been released. You can skip that passus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u10	Thank you for fixing this. I would like to point out that we only have Parliament to exercise our control and that this is the first meeting. It's just about illegals, that's a lot of reassurance. That was the first aspect of my question. My other questions remain. I would like to know how you have made the selection, how you guarantee compliance with the measures and what follow-up you provide for. The second part of my question concerns respect for quarantine measures in the centres. On the ground, we heard that the centres are not in a position to comply with or comply with these measures. So I learned that there are still movie nights and that people are packed in some places. Are those stories true? We have also heard that exchanges and exchanges between centres are continuing. What's the reason for that? In doing so, staff shall be exposed to unnecessary risks. Why are there any movement still happening? What are the movements? How is the staff protected, what material and measures do you provide? We have also heard that there would be several outbreaks of infection in the centres, both among asylum seekers and among staff in the centres. Can you indicate the exact size of this with numbers? To sum up, I find it very reassuring that you say that these are not criminal illegals. Those who do not have a right of residence must, in our opinion, be expelled and remain in the closed centres pending that. Release is absolutely a wrong signal, especially in these times. Why else did you decide that now? What is the extent of this and why are the measures on social discrimination not respected in asylum centres? We also want to know why movements are still taking place, how many asylum seekers and staff who have been infected in the services have been admitted to the hospital, and what solutions you are providing for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u11	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for your commitment in these very special times and circumstances. I have a detailed question, she's sector-related and she's about the tourist and recreational sector. I got messages from Recread vzw. In the meantime, I think you are already aware that Fedasil employees approach the campsites by phone in a very assertive way to provide reception for asylum seekers. If the entrepreneur refuses to cooperate, he is told in intimidating tone that they will certainly note that he does not want to cooperate. That intimidating phones to campers continue, just as the sector is moaning under the mandatory closure by COVID-19, is particularly difficult. It's very difficult to place that. Are you aware of this specific approach to campsites? Why should campsites be obliged to close due to the COOVID-19 measures, but are they asked to provide reception for asylum seekers at campsites? How many campsites were already called by the employees of Fedasil? Which entrepreneurs are still being called by Fedasil outside the tourist and recreational sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u12	I will set up my timer, Mr President, so that I certainly do not go out of time. I share some of the concerns and questions that have already been raised by colleagues. I will not repeat it again, but I would like to mention a few points which deserve a little more attention. The first concerns the reception of asylum seekers in the barracks of Sijsele during this corona crisis. A few weeks ago it was decided that the old barracks in Sijsele would be re-used for the reception of some 300 asylum seekers. That happened in 2015, during the peak of the asylum crisis, too. In 2016 the center was closed, but now apparently the firehouse has to be reopened out of necessity. Unlike other European countries, asylum influx remains very high in Belgium. Due to the corona crisis, the reopening raised some legitimate questions. For example, it would be difficult to comply with the rules on social discrimination to prevent the spread of the virus in the asylum seekers centre. The city council of Damme had therefore asked for the opening of the center to be postponed, but for Fedasil it appears that because of the large influx it is not an option and the city government has accepted it. Asylum seekers are known not to follow closely the government's corona measures. I have a few questions about this. Can you guarantee, Mrs De Block, that the 300 asylum seekers will not be so many soon to increase the spread of COVID-19 in the region around the asylum seekers' centre in Sijsele? In the media we read that it was agreed with the Red Cross that all asylum seekers will be medically tested for the duration of the corona crisis. What this medical test contains is not specified. Does this test mean that asylum seekers will be tested for possible infection with COOVID-19? If so, what type of test will be used to check for possible contamination? If not, how can you avoid an outbreak of COVID-19 in and around asylum seekers' centres without testing? My second point concerns the entry ban and the drift-back to the border. For some time now, most countries have been re-checking their internal borders and, in accordance with the directives in force within the territory of the country, they are effectively prohibited from entering their territory in the case of non-essential movements. In Germany, this entry ban did not apply to asylum seekers for two weeks, leading to the very strange situation that Europeans who had no permanent place of residence in Germany or were not working at the border were returned, while the borders for non-Europeans remained open. Since 27 March 2020, the entry ban has rightly been extended to illegal migrants wishing to apply for asylum in Germany. In other words, since that day, asylum seekers will have to take into account the fact that they will be stopped at the border, a measure which is in all respects justifiable as they already come from a safe country. That is no different in our own country. Does the ban on entry into Belgium therefore apply to asylum seekers and should they, as is the case in Germany, take account of the fact that they will be stopped and returned at the Belgian border? How many illegal migrants have been registered at the border since the introduction of border controls? How much in the air and sea ports? Since the introduction of border controls, have applications been made for asylum at the border? How many illegal migrants were denied access to the country? What happened to the people who weren't driven back? Is the Minister prepared to formally suspend access to asylum or to the current asylum procedure in that country and to publish it through all possible international channels? My penultimate question is perhaps one of the most important. If we were to believe the statements made by Adjutant Caekebeke in Het Nieuwsblad, then I would say explicitly that the strategic emergency stock of mouth masks and protective equipment would be destroyed and not replaced to "at least partially house refugees in the barracks that have been released." As a correct Member of Parliament, I am keen to find out the complete truth before drawing any conclusions from it. I asked your former colleague Theo Francken, former Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, and Steven Vandeput, one of the ministers responsible at the time. Theo Francken said he wasn't aware of this, but he didn't deny that Lieutenant Caekebeke's statements could be true. My question is therefore crystal clear: can you at last clarify to us, Members of Parliament, but also to all the citizens of this country, exactly what happened, why it happened and who was aware of it? While everyone was asked to stay indoors as much as possible, in the week of 20 March 2020 some 300 illegals were released from the closed centres for forced return. We have just heard you say fervently that it was not about illegal migrants, but there are still a few questions that remain open. It is reported that these are people who have not committed public order offences. Several mayors were right to react very angryly to this decision, not least because they had not been informed in advance. Some of those released illegals would even have been brought to Brussels with a van. I expect you to clarify that later. In this context, I would have liked an answer to a number of questions. How many illegal immigrants were actually released from the closed return centres? Why did that happen? Was it a lack of space, a shortage of staff or other reasons? Is it true that some of the illegals released in Brussels were dropped off in a van? If so, how many people were involved and why exactly, if it has happened? Do you rule out the fact that there were among the unauthorized people who committed criminal acts? Will the illegals who have committed criminal acts remain in custody? Have any of the illegals been released from the closed centres since then? If so, how much and why? Are you shutting down a repeat of the operation that was carried out in the week of March 20th? How many illegals are still in the closed return centres? In response to the protests of some mayors, your spokesperson stated with man and power to seek solutions. Have you found these solutions in the meantime? If so, what are they concrete? If we can believe the messages, Fedasil will continue his search for additional capacity in the shelter. In the meantime, is the capacity of the closed return centres being further developed? If so, how many places have been added since 1 January? If not, why doesn't that happen? I would like to point out once again that we are putting asylum seekers, Fedasil's staff and local residents unnecessarily at risk as long as we do not lock down those asylum seekers' centres. Several witnesses tell us that most of those asylum seekers do not know what the corona virus is. Then how can we sensitize them? Last week you indicated that you do not intend to lock down the asylum seekers' centres. Of course, my group considers this to be an extremely regrettable decision. However, we would ask you to take a number of other additional measures to ensure safety. We are thinking, for example, of additional awareness-raising campaigns in the asylum seekers' centres which focus on the people who are there and who take into account their lack of training, especially scientific training, and language skills. If you are still not prepared to proceed to a lockdown, what measures will you take to ensure the safety of asylum seekers on the one hand and the staff of Fedasil and the locals on the other? So I have a large number of questions and I hope you will answer more than Minister De Crem did this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u13	Madam Secretary, my first question concerns asylum applications. Since Monday 6 April it has been possible to submit asylum applications again. It was really irresponsible of the government to temporarily suspend the right to asylum without providing a solution for the reception of asylum seekers. I am glad that this is now possible again and that digital applications can be submitted. I would like to express my support and respect for the NGOs that have been working to treat homeless people with symptoms of COVID-19 in Tour & Taxis. That made it possible for asylum seekers who may be ill to stay somewhere after all. Now that requests are possible again, we can prevent these people from ending up on the streets. In this way, we protect not only asylum seekers but also general public health. New applications also give rise to new concerns on the ground. Staff members of the asylum centres informed us that they are not sufficiently protected to prevent contamination. Protection is provided only for medical personnel, not for other staff who are eligible each day with the residents. There is also the fear that new people in the shelters will lead to new infections. The staff are very keen to re-enter. But they also want the necessary guarantee of their safety and that of the inhabitants. Madam Secretary, I have three questions for you. Will new residents of shelters be tested for the corona virus? Will the staff be tested, too? Will you provide protective equipment for all personnel, such as gloves, mouth masks and the like? Should we not re-enable local reception initiatives to create extra space so that we can spread more people and guarantee social distancing? I also have a question about continuing orders to leave the territory during the corona crisis. The Foreign Affairs Service continues to give orders to leave the territory, although in many countries the borders are closed and sent back is hardly possible anymore. Moreover, in practice it is often impossible to appeal against the orders in times of lockdown. For example, there is the story of the Ahme family from Kurdistan, who is staying in a local shelter initiative in Bomal. She was recently ordered to leave the territory. She got ten days to appeal. However, their lawyer no longer reported being able to appeal during the lockdown. That is why I have the following questions. How many orders to leave the territory have you had issued since 13 March 2020? How many appeals have been made against this? Why do you not temporarily stop the orders to leave the territory, as it is almost impossible to reach other countries or appeal to those concerned? Yesterday, the Council of State considered that, if the appeal procedure were postponed for all other case-law, this should also apply to the Council for Foreigner's Disputes. Do you follow that decision? Finally, I would also like to ask about the suspension of the right of visit of representatives of the people to closed centres. On 25 March 2020 I visited the closed centre in Merksplas and used my right as a representative of the people. Attorneys' testimonies reported several problems in the closed centres under COVID-19. I've been received by the board and I've been able to ask my questions. However, I was refused access to the areas in which the waiters are locked up. According to Article 33 and Article 42 of the Royal Decree on closed centres, Parliamentaries have unlimited right of visit in those buildings. There's nothing in the law that lays down exceptions to that. Despite all the hygiene measures taken at the time of entry, we were refused access. In the past, NGOs were no longer allowed access to the closed centres. In this way, there is no longer any form of external control. That is why I have the following questions. Did you know that people's representatives are denied access to closed centres? Do you agree that external control by representatives of the people should continue to be possible even in times of corona? Will you address the Foreign Affairs Office and guarantee that people's representatives can continue to exercise their right to visit?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u14	Madam Minister, many things have already been raised in this morning's topical debate or in other committees, which I will not come back to. As we have heard from several colleagues, the measures also have a major impact on asylum and migration policies. It will be difficult for people who wish to apply for asylum here during this period. What about the reception of asylum seekers, what about those who wish to apply for visas for our country, for example in the context of family reunification? What is the status of asylum applications and visa applications already submitted before the entry into force of the quarantine measures? These questions are not at the top of the agenda in the media or in public opinion, but we believe they are important. Many of the people concerned are in a vulnerable position and are at risk of being deprived of any help. In addition, it cannot be the intention to leave people on the streets aimlessly, whether they are potential asylum seekers or people without papers. This not only puts them at risk, but also threatens to throw soot in the food in the fight against the spread of the virus. That is a battle that we must now fight together. Our group therefore has a few specific questions. The application centre for asylum is open again. However, one must make an appointment via the website. How many asylum applications are made per day? How many people are in the digital queue right now? Is there specific guidance or reception available for those who are unable to apply for asylum? Are people who are digitally illiterate helped to make their appointment? Are there specific measures in open reception centres to prevent the spread of the virus? Can you give an update on the number of infections in the open reception centres? Will additional precautions be taken, if necessary, both for staff and for residents? This question has already been asked by another colleague. What measures are being taken in the closed centres for staff and residents? How many residents were released? Will additional measures be taken, if necessary, if one has to leave the shelter, because one has been granted a residence permit or because the application has been rejected? Anyone recognised as a refugee or as a subsidiary protected person will have two months to find a residence. That time limit can be extended by two months, but then one has to leave irrevocably. Today, however, it is almost impossible to visit a property, let alone to conclude a rental contract. Will the time limits for leaving reception centres be extended or suspended? How do you see that? There are a lot of undocumented people in our country. Where they live is not clear. Are any actions being taken to reach them? If so, which one? As with other administrations, many applications are currently under way, ranging from asylum applications to visa applications for family reunification. How are they handled? Some applications are subject to a deadline. Finally, what happens to residence permits that need to be renewed, such as single permits or student visas? It is often about strong profiles, which our country needs, but which are now threatening to become illegal, because the applications are not being processed. Madam Minister, will you take measures to prevent these people from being able to extend their application in good time and thus get into illegality?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u15	Madam Secretary, the registration centre was closed on 17 March. That was a good decision to protect the staff from people they met for the first time. What happened in the period between the closure and the electronic notification with the people who wanted to apply for asylum but were unable to register? Is it known where they were and what they were doing? I suppose not, but maybe some of the agencies have been able to register that. I have also heard several colleagues complain about the deletion of visitation rights. Are the measures taken by the National Security Council valid or not for MEPs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u16	Madam Secretary, the corona crisis affects us all, especially the most vulnerable. This also applies to persons without legal residence or with precarious residence status. We're very worried about that. We understand that a working group on Vulnerable Persons was set up under the joint chairmanship of Mrs Muylle and Mr Ducarme. It would soon begin work or has already done so. The regions would be involved, whether or not within the framework of an inter-ministerial conference. What is the mandate of the working group? Does it include the status of persons with precarious residence status? If so, in what way are you involved? What's being investigated? What is the status of these conclusions? If not, why not? In what way will you do the same constant exercise for people without legal residence? In any case, I would urge you to monitor this very closely. We have a great deal of respect for your services, which do as much as possible to stand there in extreme circumstances. I therefore liked to get an update on DVZ and Fedasil. To what extent does the corona crisis cause understaffing? What specific tasks? Did a lot of staff fall out sick? Besides, are there many staff members at home with their children now? Asylum and migration services, including asylum reception and detention in the context of forced return, shall be considered essential services. There is likely to be a major impact on matters other than asylum and detention. Can you describe this further? Are there figures of current employment compared to previous employment? Despite the apparent impact of that decision, the challenges remain. "Stay in your barn" is the catchphrase of the year, but staying in your barn is of course impossible for those who don't have a barn. Articles show that, for example, homeless people are at risk of being extra vulnerable because of corona. Thus they are a risk to themselves, but also to others via transmission. To what extent is there still an active search for reception structures? Anything find out? What is the ratio of inflow versus outflow? Will care be provided according to the Dutch model if necessary? What about completed asylum procedures? Is the reception system being removed, or is it trying to adapt a sleeve in some way, regardless of what the regions and NGOs are doing in terms of emergency care? Is there, for example, an extension of the application in case of a negative decision? Is Fedasil able to go into that? What about requests for extension in case of positive decisions, since the flow into a home has become very difficult, because home visits also become difficult? What concrete action is being taken on housing? Are you also making contact with the state governments about this? Quid the online registration for asylum applications? We're glad he's here now. Is there a limitation on the number of persons admitted? Is that dependent on the shelter? Have any agreements been made with the organisations on the ground to ensure that everything goes smoothly? I understand there are already contacts, but I don't know what the arrangements are. I have also understood that this is only available in Dutch and French, which is difficult for many. As a result, people are not able to fill things out. Do translations follow? Quid also charging documents for lack of technology? Can you add documents to the appointment in the final login center? How does this work in concrete terms? Does an appointment after registration follow soon? Is that the next day or how does it work? Quid also when an appeal is brought and there is a need for contact between client and lawyer. Is that an essential displacement? What about the orders to leave the territory? Are they still being awarded? What is the deadline for this? What about the current residence permits? Are these, as in France, automatically renewed or not during the course of the measures? In the meantime, how many infections have been detected in the reception structures? Do all the reception structures lend themselves sufficiently to so-called self-insulation? Are there clear instructions for Fedasil employees in what circumstances they should wear the protective material, the mouth masks, the gels? Do you think there's enough material? If not, was the objective exercise already made to what and exactly how much is needed? What about the infected and sick people outside the shelters? Is there an active outreach policy to reach them as well? If testing is soon to be stepped up, are you already developing a strategy to reach others? Do you have figures of persons without legal residence or asylum seekers who have been hospitalised? Did people die in Belgium without a legal stay at corona? Are you also preparing the exit strategy with the DVZ and Fedasil? Is there a systematic exercise in the next steps that can be taken? Is it also mapped out what protective material will be needed for this? Of course, you have more than the hands full of health, and that will probably continue to be the case for a long time to come. I ask this with all due respect and understanding, but do you still have enough time to deal with Asylum and Migration? Is it still a good idea at the moment to combine both powers? Will you also be able to continue answering questions here in committee in the coming weeks? Again, I say this with the greatest respect, because I think that you are driving a good course in terms of Asylum and Migration, although of course we are not always in agreement, but more often than not. So I am also asking my question from a genuine concern. Are you still able to do both in these very special times? In the meantime, I would also like to wish you and your team and all the services involved every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen in the Chamber and in your quarters, it is, of course, a great challenge to deal with the COOVID-19 crisis in three major departments. It is no secret that the combination is heavy, just because I am involved in all the measures in the various departments in the cores, the IMCs, the OCCs and, of course, in Parliament. COOVID-19 has an effective impact on the work on asylum and migration. The virus is spread throughout the Belgian territory and does not distinguish on the basis of language, gender, philosophy, cultural background or origin. Well, then, that might be a nice trait of it. The risk of infection is no higher for asylum seekers than for the rest of the population, and I am therefore a little worse for people who de facto assume that they would all be spreaders of the virus. Various measures have been taken, both in the open and in the closed centres. These measures were taken after the recommendations of the Risk Assessment Group, the scientific team that advises the government. On this basis, instructions have been given to the centres. An important first step that we had to take and which has already been discussed by several Members is the temporary cessation on 17 March 2020 of requests for international protection. It was no longer possible, either for staff or for asylum seekers, to continue the work in the usual way. Without adjustments there was not enough distance between both the people before and in the Klein Kastiltje and between the people who work there. In view of the spread of the virus, therefore, it was not justified to allow that process to be carried out here, either in relation to staff or in relation to asylum seekers. That's why there was temporary discontinuation. Additional guarantees on a safe environment were needed. The administration, in close consultation with the cabinet, has worked hard over the past few weeks to ensure this security. Several changes were made. The infrastructure of the registration room at the Aliens Office was modified, including by the placement of Plexiglas counters. In addition, a procedure was developed to protect the security of the applicants and the employees. The current health rules, in particular the requirement to keep a distance of one-and-a-half metres, are respected. In concrete terms, the registration of an asylum application will only be possible by appointment. The appointment must first be requested via an application form, which was placed online last Friday. After checking the data, the applicant will receive an invitation by the day and the time at which he or she must report to the Klein Kastiltje. Priority will be given to vulnerable people, unaccompanied minors, families with children, pregnant women and sick people or other vulnerable people. Only people with an appointment can enter the Little Castle. Thanks to this arrangement system, no queues can be created and no waiting rooms are needed either. It is not necessary to have a computer – this question has already been asked several times – in order to ask for an appointment. You can also take it with a smartphone. Applicants who are not connected to the Internet or who, for other reasons, are not in a position to schedule an appointment may be assisted by an acquaintance, a family member, an existing network in Belgium, an NGO, a legal representative, etc. The form to be completed is accompanied by explanations in the main languages spoken by asylum seekers. As early as Friday, appointment requests were completed via the website. I have not yet been informed of any technical difficulties with the new digital procedure. Furthermore, I do not have an estimate of the number of asylum seekers who have not been able to apply since 19 March. On the other hand, because of the urgent measures to be taken by all Member States to limit the spread of the virus, the influx of new asylum seekers has drastically decreased. As for the other residential structures, we must also pay particular attention to the reception centres at these times. There were a lot of people there in community and on a limited surface together. As already mentioned, Fedasil follows the recommendations for residential collections of the Risk Assessment Group to reduce the risk of contamination. In this context, the follow-up plan also applies to other groups living in communities. People with probable symptoms are seen by a doctor and immediately placed in isolation. In addition, all residents must comply with the general rules in force. Seriously ill people are isolated and referred to hospital if necessary, where a doctor on duty decides whether there is a need for testing and/or hospitalisation. Only when they are within the case definition, like you or me, will they also be tested. Testing is therefore only done on indication and after consideration of the triage doctor. The measures taken in our centres are similar to those in other collective structures. The risks, such as the spread of the disease in the centre, are monitored daily. At the moment, we have not yet identified an infection shark in our centres. The inhabitants were informed in detail and in different languages about the current situation and the hygiene measures taken to prevent further spread of the virus. In addition, specific directives are applicable to ensure that social distancing is respected as far as possible. The vast majority of residents comply with these measures. The reception centres remain in close contact with the mayors and provincial governors concerned to discuss their concerns and make joint arrangements. It goes without saying that the measures relating to social distance, as decided by the National Security Council, also apply to the residents of the reception centres and that they must comply with them, just like the rest of the population. It is therefore very important that the measures be followed and that strict action be taken against flagrant violations. However, we must ensure that no unnecessary distinction is made between the inhabitants of reception centres and the rest of the population. Stigmatisation of people does not help anyone, especially in these exceptional times. Over the past few weeks, measures have been taken in some municipalities which have been disproportionate and unnecessarily discriminatory with regard to the residents of reception centres, such as the possible lockdown of reception centres. From the perspective of public health and according to the recommendations of the experts in the present situations, this was not necessary. Therefore, close consultations were held with local authorities and provincial governors and thereafter these measures were replaced everywhere by more adapted measures that protect the health of residents, staff and residents in an equally efficient and equivalent way. I understand the concerns of local authorities and the population, but we must all keep our heads down in times of crisis and do not impose additional measures on reception centres or the people in the municipality that are useless and have no added value from the point of view of public health. I am pleased to note that our dialogue with local authorities and governors is generally very constructive. I would also like to take this opportunity to express my thanks to all the mayors and governors, inviting them to continue to work with our reception partners in their commune in order to preserve the serenity within and around the reception centres. I therefore also call for a uniform approach whereby measures envisaged by local authorities are discussed in advance with Fedasil and the provincial governor, following the recommendations of the experts in the field of public health. Additional advice may be requested from these experts in special circumstances. Only through joint consultation can we reach agreements and measures that protect both public health, the inhabitants of the centre and the inhabitants of the municipalities in an equivalent way. Fedasil has made available the necessary budget for the purchase of equipment and products in order to ensure the best possible implementation of the sanitary instructions. These include FFP2 masks for caregivers directly in contact with sick residents, hydro-alcoholic gels, thermometers, cleaning products and disinfectants, paper handkerchiefs and liquid hand soaps. As in other sectors, disruption of the international market complicates supply. We continue our efforts by interviewing suppliers on a daily basis about what can be purchased and distributed between different reception centres as needed. The medical services of the centres are currently focusing on identifying any infected persons, taking preventive measures to prevent the spread of the virus, distributing the necessary medication and administering urgent medical assistance. All non-essential aid is temporarily postponed. Strengthening medical services is very difficult in this context. However, Fedasil is trying to organise the possible reinforcement of medical services with doctors and nurses, especially when people from the permanent staff themselves would become ill. By this I mean not only sick because of the corona virus, because other diseases are not excluded. Through the budget circular, Fedasil's budget does not currently provide for new initiatives to, for example, grant residents a flat-rate allowance for a Gsm subscription. However, they all already have access to the Internet. The Muskron shelter is one of the largest centres in our country and deserves special attention for this reason alone. There are some confirmed and some suspicious cases there at the moment, but there is no question of an uncontrolled spread in the centre. I have taken the initiative to analyse the situation and the risk together with the provincial governor, the mayor and the host partner and to seek adapted solutions. This dialogue is continuing. There are between 30 and 40 staff in the centre every day. There is therefore no problem of under-staffing. In addition to the specific measures to prevent the spread of the virus in the reception centres, I would also like to mention the general state of the reception network. As you know, this shelter network has been in a precarious state for a long time. Both the individual and the collective collection network currently have a high capacity utilisation rate of around 96%. In normal times, this capacity utilisation already brings with it a very strong pressure on life in the reception centres. The current situation makes it even less evident for residents, but also for staff. To maintain a liveable situation in the short term, additional capacity is required. By opening new spaces, we can reduce the occupancy rate and reduce the risk of infection in reception facilities. In consultation with the mayor, the reception centre of Seysele opened this week. Every day, people are gradually transferred from other centres. A maximum of 300 persons will be taken in. I can also tell you that all new applicants for international protection assigned to the Sijsele reception centre will first stay in the registration centre for at least seven days. They may leave for Sijsele only if they do not show any symptoms of COVID-19 at that time. If they do not show any symptoms, of course that means that they are not all tested either, that goes without saying. After all, they do not fall within the case definition. In order to reduce the pressure on the existing reception centres, as long as the general measures in the fight against the spread of COVID-19 are in force, we will only assign people to the new shelters. In order to achieve this, the places in Sijsele are necessary. We do not want to mix with people who come from other centres in order to reduce the danger. After all, we ourselves try not to get in touch with other groups. This approach therefore falls entirely within the scope of the general measures of the National Security Council, which apply to all. With regard to the individual reception network, we see a slight increase in the number of suspended places. That was also to be expected, as the LOIs take measures to ensure sufficient physical distance. It has also become less evident to find accommodation for the recognised asylum seekers. You can't do that right now. In the short term, creating individual reception places is not really realistic. We are also heavily dependent on the local authorities, which already have an important management role to play in this crisis. We have to understand that. After the health crisis, there may be room for additional LOIs. On 26 March, a letter was sent to the mayors of a commune with a LOI. It asked to release as many LOI places as possible to ensure the flow. In the longer term, sufficient capacity is likely to be required. Although we have experienced a much lower influx due to the temporary cessation of the registration of asylum applications, there is also a risk that asylum authorities will take fewer decisions and that people will therefore have to stay longer in the reception network. To meet these needs for additional reception spaces, Fedasil continues its research as in the past. For this purpose, the agency contacts all types of organisations, services and companies that could have suitable places. Fedasil is in the current context essentially looking for places where social distancing can be applied to the maximum. It was with this in mind that the tourism sector was contacted. The temporary use of holiday homes, often outside the tourist season, is not new. During the 2015-2016 reception crisis, and last year too, contracts were concluded with various places of stay in the tourism or youth sector. I am thinking here of Lommel, Bredene, Theux, Spa, Senonchamps and Jalhay. They are often companies or organisations that consciously chose to start a new collaboration following a positive experience in 2015 and 2016. Several of these collaborations have emerged as a result of unsolicited proposals. I am therefore surprised to hear that some campers who have been contacted by Fedasil in recent weeks would have felt intimidated. I really don't see how Fedasil can exert pressure, because Fedasil doesn't have any leverage. One can only ask the question. If you don't want to answer, you can just put the phone on. It is the operator or owner who always decides autonomously whether or not he wants to go into it. I'm not gonna waste any more words on that. As mentioned above, the measures related to corona also have a negative impact on the outputs of the asylum authorities and hence on the outflow from the reception centres. Together with the asylum authorities, we are looking at how we can minimise this impact on output. CGRA continues to fulfil its application review mission as much as possible. Although interviews and access to reception are temporarily suspended, decisions are still taken and notified. First, we make decisions in files for which a personal interview has already been organised before and issue refugee certificates by bpost or e-mail. In addition, we also examine whether there are possibilities for interviews via videoconferencing. At the moment, however, it is still too early to provide you with more specific information. In addition to the Fedasil reception structures, there are also the closed centres of the DVZ, which have also had to change their operation significantly as a result of this crisis. They also closely follow the recommendations of the Risk Assessment Group. All centres have taken different measures on this basis. The measures are mainly aimed at the maximum spread of residents and strict hygiene. Both the residents and the staff are maximum sensitisers. To ensure the necessary social distance, for example, the distribution of residents in the rooms and in the dining rooms is increased. The number of persons able to participate in certain activities together is limited. The movements within the center are adjusted. The aim of all this is to avoid contact between the various groups of residents and to keep their distance. The capacity had to be reduced in order to be able to respect those guidelines for social distancing and the retention of the necessary distance. At present, 204 people remain in the centres, including all those who have committed acts against public order. 297 persons were exempted, after a selection by the DVZ, so that no illegal criminals were exempted. They're still safe, as long as the law allows us. Exemptions are always individual decisions for which my administration makes a thorough analysis, file by file. In the first place, it is examined whether a removal is still possible, within the statutory retention period. In addition, all the elements in the file are examined and taken into account. Certainly the elements of public order are part of that investigation. No persons who have committed acts of public order were exempted with the intention of replacing them. They're holding on. Many persons are being detained who still need to be identified before their effective removal can take place. That process can sometimes take months. These activities will, of course, also continue. The current situation therefore does not automatically lead to the conclusion of a lack of a reasonable prospect of return and of the need to put an end to retention. Detention must be allowed to continue in accordance with the provisions of the Return Directive, taking into account the particular situation. This was confirmed yesterday by the European Commission. In that context, account should still be taken of the legality of the detention by the competent judicial authorities which may order the release. There are judgments in this sense, but there are also judgments that confirm detention. Persons who are exempted are asked whether they have shelter, for example in the case of acquaintances or family. For the vast majority, that appears to be the case. If this is not the case, care will be looked forward to. Most of the persons concerned are picked up at the centre or released in the vicinity of public transport. They are certainly not systematically dropped off at the North Station. In order to deal with the transport of residents, I can say that such transport has been reduced to a minimum. So it is not true that there are plenty of transfers from foreigners to centres, as Mrs Van Camp points out. After all, residents' groups are not mixed. That would go against the opinions, and that would also be irresponsible. Only the tasks essential to maintain the operationality of the closed centres are carried out. At present, it mainly concerns transport in the context of removals, transport from prisons or transport to and from courts. As you know, that's all on a lower base. We must also take care of the drivers in the centres. They have disinfectant gel for vehicles and latex gloves. Some questions have also been asked about the restriction of visiting rights in the closed centres. Indeed, the measures taken by the centres to protect public health also have an impact on the visitor scheme. However, it is not true that all visits were prohibited. I would also like to stress that access to closed centres has not been refused to Members. Members of Parliament may visit the centre, but without access to the wing where the residents are located. The Office for Foreigners was making every effort to ensure that parliamentarians could exercise their right of control, but the management of the centres had taken considerable time to answer their questions during their visit, even during that exceptional period. Why should a representative not take the necessary precautions and not go to a centre in these circumstances? I am a health minister and I am not visiting a hospital right now, just because I have to abide by the rules and because I might be a potential asymptomatic spreader of the virus in a hospital. MEPs must also respect social distancing measures, like all citizens and asylum seekers. If we ask them, you have to do it, too. I thought everyone would at least have that common sense. Failure to allow direct and physical contact with the residents for Members of Parliament is indeed based on Articles 33 and 41 of the Royal Decree of 2 August 2002 laying down the regime and the operating measures of the closed centres. Those articles allow access to a centre to be refused for reasons of public health protection. I would also like to point out that the possibility of making contact with residents in a digital way is being offered. Of course, I agree that external control should remain possible. In the current situation, I also hope to be able to count on common sense and respect for the measures we are taking in this crisis. These measures ensure that we do not have any incidents and that the safety of the people who live there and the people who stay there is safeguarded as much as possible. Access to legal aid continues to be guaranteed normally. A foreigner's lawyer can always meet his client. A space has been planned where the recommended distance can be respected. In addition, residents can call their lawyer free of charge. First-line physical legal assistance has been replaced by telephone assistance. Keeping in touch with the outside world is also facilitated by a more flexible regulation for telephone use and the expansion of internet access in our centres. A limited call credit per inhabitant per week is granted, as is the case in prisons. In the various centres there is some concern about this virus. In fact, everyone in this country is concerned about this. There have been some minor incidents in recent weeks, but that is not exceptional in our centres. To date, no confirmed infection with COVID-19 has been detected by a resident of the closed centres. In case of suspected infection, a resident is always placed in medical isolation as a precaution. This can also happen with a new intake. It is always the center doctor who decides when a person goes in or out of medical isolation. Most of the residents who are placed in medical isolation are now reintegrated into the life wing. There are currently two people in medical isolation after a new intake and there are four confirmed infections with COVID-19 among the staff of the centers. With regard to disposals, due to significantly reduced air traffic and the closure of borders, disposals are also more difficult to organise. However, they are not impossible for certain destinations. There have been 93 removals since 13 March. Only a minority of these are Dublin takeovers. Here too, the files are examined on a case-by-case basis. The escorts to the country of origin have indeed been suspended for the time being by the police. To a limited extent, there are still removal orders to accompany the person concerned to the aircraft. Of course, we are not moving to countries where there are major difficulties, such as Mr Rigot, to Greece. We note a decrease in the number of administrative reports on transmigrants. This could have different causes. The overall decline in international traffic is likely to play a major role in this. It has been asked whether further work is being carried out on the additional capacity of the closed centres. We still want to continue the master plan for the closed centres. In view of the current crisis, I have decided that a third-country national whose right of residence expires and who is prevented by force majeure from leaving Belgium may apply for an extension of his or her right of residence. People who are staying here illegally will not suddenly be granted the right to reside. One must already have it. It can therefore only be extended and not simply granted. I haven't generally stopped delivering orders to leave the territory. The person who receives such an order will have to leave the country as soon as possible. A return is still possible for certain countries. In addition, third-country nationals who are unable to leave Belgium due to the COVID-19 crisis may, on the basis of Article 74, 14°, submit a reasoned application to extend the period of their order. As for Mrs Daems' question on the number of orders to leave the territory issued, I cannot answer that question. The figures are not yet available for the requested period. With regard to persons arrested at the border, I can say that since 19 March there have been nine people refused Schengen border crossings. None of them requested international protection. These persons were kept at the border in accordance with the legal provisions for refoulement or chose to return immediately. I do not have data on Belgian land borders. For this, you must address the Minister of the Interior. International protection is a right. Persons wishing to apply for international protection at the border can still do so. This is also clearly stated in the Commission's directives on non-essential travel to the European Union. With regard to the people without papers and the shelter, we need to focus on the proper reception of these people, both for the Belgian homeless and for those without right of residence. You know that this is primarily a matter for local authorities. I also note that the cities and municipalities are taking the necessary action, such as yesterday's request for hotels to accommodate these people. We are following the situation with the various competent governments. We are also taking joint action to ensure that protection against the virus is respected. Ladies and gentlemen, questions were asked in numbers. You know it's hard to get to everyone right now. Our administrations are also plagued by people working at home, sick or absent. It's a challenge for everyone at work to get the job done. I have every respect for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. Thank you for having "put the church in the middle of the village" from the start in your answers. I admit that I was amazed that some colleagues once again use the debate to stigmatize migrants and use a humanitarian subject of terrible and exceptional crisis to defend another cause. I was as amazed as we used this debate to undermine the integrity and honesty of Fedasil's staff, and I weigh my words. These people do a great job, committed and willing. They are facing a migration crisis that has taken place for more than a year. The current crisis is in addition to that. How can such a statement be made and consider that pressure should be put on anyone to open up structures? I find it insulting and I want to defend all of Fedasil's staff for their professionalism. Some mistakenly or enviously confuse the notions of confinement and imprisonment. We've all been in confinement for three weeks. All of you, ladies and gentlemen, live it as I do, under the conditions of the little comfort that we live at home or in our apartments. Residents of reception centres live in overcapacity, where places of leisure are reduced by the occupancy of places for accommodation purposes. Of course, all measures must be taken to avoid the movement of any person outside the structures, but that is no reason to put an end to certain qualities of reception within the structures. This is essential, because this crisis will continue for a while. It seems clear to me that solidarity has no colour or borders. She can't have an exclusive either. For once, one could hope that everyone can rise up and sometimes get out of the simplistic discussion: the stranger is the other, and then there is us. No, in this case, I think there are men, women, children, whatever their colour and origin. So we need a common response in this fight that we all have to face today. Minister, I must acknowledge that many of the measures you have mentioned today demonstrate a great capacity for action and response on the part of your services and the administration in an exceptional situation that no one was undoubtedly prepared for. I see a positive development between the time we started to table our questions and today. Things have moved, we must recognize it. It's a quick and positive reaction, but you don't have to let it go. Efforts must be continued. It is essential to ensure that the flow of inputs into the network is managed in a normal manner. There is nothing more dangerous for these men, women and children than to leave them on the street because we would not be able to ensure the recording as if the situation were simply normal. We must offer, more than ever, accommodation because these men, women and children are entitled to it. We must protect them and protect society as a whole and implement containment. There is also an urgent need to reduce pressure in reception centres. Minister, I hear you say that today it seems to be working well. However, in order to have daily contact with the reception centres, I can tell you that this is not exactly the case. Everyone confirms that the equipment is actually there and that processes are in place but also stresses the fear of the staff, the exhaustion following the migration crisis that has lasted for more than a year. Everyone also stresses the tension within the structures. In fact, overcapacity, impossibility for residents to leave, reduced activity, reduced staff environment due to illness and fatigue, all this is a time bomb. You have to be very careful about it. Measures must be taken to reduce overcapacity in reception facilities and, as you say, quickly open up other structures to have a regulated capacity and to be able to comply with social distancing measures in them. I find it unacceptable to pursue, no matter what, a policy of voluntary or forced returns in the current state of affairs. We know the international context and the difficulties. The crisis is not only Belgian; it is global. It is therefore absolutely necessary to guarantee to all these people, whether legal or not, that they can remain where they are best able to protect them today. I think it is at home, in our structures, and it is probably with the measures that we can take. Therefore, I urge you to temporarily suspend all forced return measures until the situation is stabilized everywhere. On the other hand, in the present state of affairs, since we are not in a position to repatriate to certain countries, I do not see the point of keeping those who are there in a closed centre because they are waiting for a forced return. I think it is more reasonable and responsible to stop this deprivation of liberty, which loses all its meaning and purpose. Minister, you are right to say that it is imperative to ensure the reception and containment of undocumented people. You say that, unfortunately, it falls within the competence of the communes and, as you pointed out in your reaction to the ILAs, they are already overloaded and face many emergencies. Yes, that's right. Today, the municipalities are not in a position to carry out this mission. Could we get out of the framework of communal, regional, federal jurisdiction and rely on the temporary support of the federal government here? I want to say that in exceptional circumstances, exceptional measures. Let's take the legal framework away a little and take our responsibilities by helping where it is possible! Thank you for the packages, but this is just the beginning. I would once again like to congratulate all those, men and women, who are on the ground and who are fighting to maintain a dignified and humane welcome in a terrible situation for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u19	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, I will begin by highlighting the elements you pointed out that I liked rather. I'm glad you're distracting yourself from what we can hear about migrants who would be a factor in the spread of the virus. It is a classic far-right rhetoric which unfortunately continues even in the event of a crisis, in a need for a certain union in the face of such problems. On the other hand, if they are not propagation factors, I think they are vulnerability factors. It really needs to be the basis of the policy that you are going to put in place as the competent Minister for Asylum and Migration in the coming weeks. This vulnerability is due in particular to the fact that most of these people do not have access to health care services, that they live in fear and promiscuity. I think that this is the main element of the policies of the coming weeks, and it is to realize that no, these categories of people are not a factor in the spread, but rather a category of vulnerable people to which special attention must be paid. On the reception centres, I would just like to remind you of my colleague Wouter De Vriendt's proposal that military barracks should be made available. I think the Defence can play a role in that, and I wanted to remind you. Indeed, you mention the fact that there are no cases that have been detected in Fedasil centers. It's just because there was no testing. It is well known that only the most problematic cases are tested. On the other hand, Madam Minister, I am deeply shocked by your response to the closed centres, when you ask why Members should not respect confinement. I would like to ask you why the factors do not respect containment, why cashiers and cashiers do not respect containment, why Amazon workers do not respect containment. Because they're doing their job! And our job as a Member of Parliament is to ensure democratic control, an observation on detention centres. You quote section 41 of the Royal Decree. In fact, Article 41 concerns visits, it does not concern parliamentarians. I think that making us feel guilty about the visits that we set up by democratic control to ensure that the situation in the closed centres is going well, is gravissim, in the sense that...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u20	I find your conduct irresponsible and dangerous! You are going against the measures advised by the scientists to overcome this crisis. If there's a fireplace and you're a visitor there, that's your responsibility. You're responsible because you don't respect the law. Firstly, it is a non-essential relocation. Secondly, as a legislator, you must abide by the rules. That's not okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u21	Minister, we are doing our job, like others – for example, the factors – continue to do this, despite the containment measures. When I went to the closed centre, I was wearing a mask and had taken all the necessary precautions. If we, as parliamentarians, take a risk, then how do workers who go back and forth daily in these closed centres not take it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u22	Mr. Moutquin, these people have been instructed to follow the rules!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u23	Madam Minister, we are also following them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u24	No, it is important to avoid that too many people are in the same place and that people of different origins mix. You can work with digital means. When you're afraid of coming to Brussels, it's good, because you respect the rules. But if you don't respect them when you go to a centre, then you're not responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u25	Mrs De Block, that means that at present the only possibility of controlling closed centres is common sense. You just talked about it. In other words, you rely on common sense to control closed centres, detention centres. You have quoted the European Commission. As far as I am concerned, I would like to mention the Council of Europe's European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Mrs Bachelet, who call for the release of as many people as possible in migrant centres. You make the deliberate choice of quoting the Commission without mentioning other international organisations and you accuse me of endangering staff as I speak of control by taking all the necessary measures so that these people can work while being protected. Your answer is, in my view, an attack on the rule of law and on our parliamentary work that we must be able to continue to do. For the rest, you are talking about some countries that still accept returns. I wonder which countries currently accept returns? Maybe North Korea that hasn't identified a single case of coronavirus. It's one of the only countries in the world. As far as the undocumented are concerned, the aim is not to prevent them from having (...) which is not applicable for the moment, but to get them out of the climate of fear in which they live. There are between 100 000 and 150 000 people, especially in Brussels, who are afraid of having access to health care, who are even more afraid of going to the police to file a complaint, especially when they have been subjected to domestic violence. It is to these people that we must send a signal! Minister, it was to these people that Portugal replied that they were considered residents until 1 July in order to protect them!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u26	Mr Moutquin, in future, try to limit yourself to the measured time. Mr De Vriendt, do you have a reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u27	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I have three short questions. Do you already have a view of the average waiting time for that new digital system of registration? You say vulnerable profiles are given priority. What's the average waiting time there? How long do the non-vulnerable profiles have to wait for an appointment since the installation of the new system? This was not in my questions, but we are getting reports that people in closed centres must sleep in dormitories of ten people without the social distancing measures being respected. When medicines are handed over, they are hand-to-hand and without proper protection. Are you aware of that? Can you comment on this? We had the proposal for a temporary emergency shelter for people without papers, for example, to prevent people from wandering the streets in times of corona. There has been talk of a site of Defense in Tournai, but that has not happened. The Minister of Defence said something about this this morning, but he has not been very clear about it. The Members of Parliament who asked a question about this this morning remained a little in the dark about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u28	My colleague replied for the Ecolo-Groen group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u29	Madam Minister, thank you for your time and the very clear answers. It is reassuring to hear that this release was not about illegal criminals. Furthermore, our concern continues to be with the staff. We must ensure at all times that they can work in safe conditions, as we all do. In these circumstances, too, we must be able to maintain our firm asylum and migration policies. I found it reassuring that you said that there will be no regularisations in the context of corona, and we will certainly keep an eye on that. Furthermore, repatriations remain possible. I would like to ask you to be sure to continue with this, because that seems to us to be a very good way of releasing capacity, better than just letting people go. We will be very careful to ensure that they are not illegal criminals and that you continue to work on these repatriations. Hopefully you will put the emphasis on illegal criminals, people who should not have been here in the first place and who have committed crimes. If, under these circumstances, we can carry out repatriations in order to free up capacity and comply better with the measures to combat infection, that is a win-win situation. Once again, attention must be paid to the safety of personnel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u30	Mr President, I do not feel directly addressed when listening to certains collégues, although it was about my group. Let me make this clear. On the basis of discussions with people working in the asylum centres, with local residents and with volunteers working there, but also on the basis of the characteristics of the form of cohabitation in an asylum centre, there is more chance of an outbreak and spread of COOVID-19 than in other places of society. In our capacity as MEPs, but above all as members of the Committee on the Interior, including migration and asylum centres, it is our duty to ensure that the people seeking protection in our country, i.e. the real asylum seekers and refugees, are fully protected, including against the outbreak of viruses. However, it is also our duty to ensure that the people who work in these centres and who therefore fall within our competence are given all possible protection. It is therefore crucial that we dare to recognise that asylum centres need special attention and are dangerous places in a global pandemic. But don't worry. I won't last as long as certains autres collégues. However, I would like to touch briefly on a few other points. Firstly, the Risk Assessment Group (RAG) would decide exactly what happens to the asylum centres and whether or not those centres should go into lockdown. However, Madam Minister, I wonder if the members of that group have ever been in contact with or on the ground in an asylum centre. After all, you point out that asylum centres are regarded as'residential collective entities'. However, what exactly is such a residential collective entity? Is that the same as, like, an apartment block? It seems to me to be very unwise and dangerous to allow a group of experts, who have been wrong a number of times over the last few months, to decide what exactly we should do with an asylum centre, if, on the basis of information available to us today, they are obviously unaware of what an asylum centre means. They place these centres in the same category as apartment blocks. So I would like to know exactly what a residential collective entity is. In your opinion, is the Risk Assessment Group better suited to determine what should happen to the asylum centres than the members of our committee, the members of your cabinet or the staff of Fedasil itself? I have a few other short points. Do you not think it is confusing to communicate about the medical test file in the media when it appears that it is not about a corona test? If you state that all asylum seekers will be medically tested, you can assume that the local residents as well as the members of the city administration, who have the right to be well informed, are of the opinion that this is a COOVID-19 test. Apparently that's not the case. However, you do not indicate exactly how many asylum seekers have already been tested. My group would also like to know the answer to that question. I come to a penultimate point. You say: 'No asylum seekers have been released or transported on a systematic basis with vans to Brussels'. That, of course, is not a specific answer to the question that I and some of my colleagues have asked. We asked, "Did that happen?" We did not ask whether this was done on a systematic basis. Does that happen every week or every day? We asked, "Did that happen?" How many people was that about? In addition, who was responsible for that? Were you aware of this as a minister? That is a very important question that I will unfortunately have to continue to ask until we have a concrete answer to it. Finally, a golden opportunity for you to clarify and counter conspiracy theorists and spreaders of fake news, Mrs De Block, about the destruction of emergency mouth masks. My question was very clear, but I did not receive an answer. What exactly happened there? Why exactly did that happen? Who was aware of that? I will continue to ask that question until we get an answer, because people are entitled to it. Those who are now fighting against the virus in the first line may know how it is that this emergency stock of mouth masks is no longer present and, above all, who was aware of it and who is responsible for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. As far as my first question on asylum applications is concerned, you say that a number of suspicious cases and some effective infections have already been reported in Mouscron, but there is no general spread. That is not the case, because it is a very dangerous virus. That's how it started in the residential care centers. We had to wait a long time for the extra tests the government promised. They're really needed. Several universities and companies have already indicated that they can run a thousand tests a day. As soon as we are at last at the test capacity, we have to start working alongside the housing centres in the shelters. As far as the protective equipment is concerned, an employee of the Klein Kastiltje testified that only hand soap is in stock for the staff. That's not enough. We have heard that there will be stricter directives. That's a start, but it's still not enough. It is necessary to provide material for these people. I've heard that there are a lot of stash areas left empty, but we can also reorient companies, such as textile giants, to make mouth masks. There are plenty of examples of other countries, where they are already doing so. Finally, I have heard that Fedasil himself is asking for the opening of new LOIs. That's what's needed. Yesterday, the ACOD alerted the media that there is not enough room to isolate suspicious cases of symptoms. There would be too little room for isolation by now. I hold the heart when more people will apply again. The LOIs are really needed, even in the short term to guarantee social distancing in quarantine. In my view, this is also an additional argument that could convince local authorities. Hopefully that will be done. With regard to the second question concerning the orders to leave the territory during the corona crisis, Madam Secretary, you mentioned that an extension of the right of residence could be requested. But can persons who have been ordered to leave the territory still appeal? Can the deadline for that procedure also be extended? I do not think you have gone into that further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u32	An order to leave the territory is an order to leave the territory. It's gonna stay that way. Is that clear?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u33	The Council of State has now given an opinion which will allow the period for the judicial decision for asylum seekers whose application has been rejected to be extended. So I would have liked to have an answer to that. My final question concerns the suspension of the visitor rights of the representatives of the people to the closed centres. Just so we're clear, we don't want to be above the law. But we have seen that it is perfectly possible to enter the centre in a safe way in Merksplas, for example. Our temperature was measured. I was forced to wash and disinfect my hands. We also kept a foot and a half away. I do not see how that would not work in the wings where people are being held. I don't think that's irresponsible behavior. We are not doing this for our pleasure either, but it is also important for general public health to have external control.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u34	On your punctual question, if anyone gets an OQT, it's because the appeal procedure is over. Now you ask me if you can appeal again. No. One gets an OQT and that is executed. They are at the end of the procedure and the appeal and then one has to leave the territory. There is no change in the legislation that would mean staying here for a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u35	I actually had another question because there have already been problems. People get ten days to appeal, but if the lawyer says they can't because of the lockdown, there's a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u36	Thank you very much, Madam Minister, for your detailed answer. You have not answered a number of questions. I understand that, especially since the circumstances are changing considerably and you have been confronted with a number of my questions on the spot. The conditions in which you and your services work are also not ideal of course. Perhaps it is possible to reconsider the questions and see if they can still be delivered in writing? In addition, we may be able to go into a number of aspects in the next few weeks. Will you be available on the committee in the next few weeks? I would like to highlight one more question in particular. I didn't get an answer to it unless I'd missed it. I understand that a working group on Vulnerable Persons would be set up under the joint chairmanship of Ministers Ducarme and Muylle. The regions would be involved later, whether or not within the framework of an inter-ministerial conference. Does the mandate of that working group include persons with precarious residence status? If so, how are you involved? What's being investigated? What is the status of the conclusions? If not, why not and in what way will you do the same constant exercise for persons without legal residence? I call for close monitoring. In the meantime, I would like to wish you, your team and all possible employees every success.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u37	Would you like to add something to that, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u38	I have a meeting in a moment, Mr President, but I can give you some short, punctual answers. Mr De Vriendt, you asked how many requests have already been dealt with. You know that vulnerable people lead the way, but about 40 applications per day can be made, with due respect for the necessary conditions. So we arrive at about 200 requests in five days. That's enough, given the reduced influx. We also have no other choice, because the Little Castle is the Little Castle. There is no castle where it is so difficult (...). Mr Segers, the Working Group on Vulnerable Persons is an initiative of Mrs Muylle and Mr Ducarme. Mrs Muylle is responsible for social integration and poverty reduction. I don't know how much homeless people are covered in this. This is only in the initial phase. I'm at an inter-ministerial conference on public health almost every day. I also work with Mrs Muylle on the topic of Work. If there was a question, I'd like to answer it ad hoc, but not just in every meeting. The opinions of the RAG are general guidelines. In doing so, the cabinet will work in consultation with Fedasil, with the local people who run the centre, with the mayors and the provincial governors to ensure that the instructions we give are feasible and feasible. Thus, the RAG does not provide general guidelines for each way of living separately. It is a misunderstanding that the RAG has also involved collective reception centres. The general directives are also being transposed by Mr Geens and his services into measures for prisons and forensic psychiatric centres. Mr Van Langenhove asked how many people have already been confirmed as a corona patient. Luckily, there aren't so many of them. After all, we receive more than 20,000 people in collective centres and we now know about 38 people who have tested positively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u39	How many have been tested in total?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u40	I know 38 have been tested positive. There are as many tested as required according to the case definition. Once again, I have to comply with this in order to be tested; a prisoner must comply with it, you, Mr Van Langenhove, must comply with it. I don't think you'd like to hear that. Everyone has to comply with the case definition. That's how it goes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u41	Mr. Tommelein too, Mrs. De Block?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u42	Without opening his health booklet, Mr Tommelein was symptomatic and therefore indeed fell within the case definition. I wish him a speedy recovery, by the way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u43	Thanks to the Minister for her additional answers. I would like to thank the Members present, physically and virtually, for the discipline they have shown to put the questions concisely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u44	Mr President, I asked for the floor. Can the Minister answer the question as to what the waiting times are between the digital application of an appointment at DVZ and the effective allocation? Is that for non-vulnerable profiles one day or two days? I know this doesn't apply for long, but still.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic141x.u45	I had to ask, Mr De Vriendt, because of course I am not sitting there at the window myself. For the vulnerable, these applications have all been dealt with this week. The non-vulnerable will be scheduled next week.
