ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u2	Mr President, I have a few questions about the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u3	Can we deal with them after the oral questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u4	Mr President, in view of a large number of amendments tabled, which could have been tabled in committee, which has not been done, we would like to postpone consideration of the motion for a resolution No 32/1 on the recognition of the State of Palestine so that it can be discussed in the Committee on External Relations as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u5	If everyone agrees with this change in the agenda, there is no problem, Mr Laaouej, but if we do not have a consensus, I cannot accept your request. On the third item on the agenda, the resolution on the formal recognition of the Palestinian State, a number of amendments have been tabled. Mr Laaouej asked whether this resolution could be re-examined in committee, since his group had not been able to take note of these amendments or not. The question is therefore to send the third item on our agenda back to the committee and then to put it back on the agenda of the plenary next week. For the record, no committee is being organised today. Is there a consensus on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u6	Mr President, I would also like to announce that a text will come to you. This is a motion calling for the establishment of a special commission, transforming itself into a commission of inquiry if necessary and as soon as necessary. I would like us to discuss it after the oral questions or at some other time, if you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u7	So it's a point of order. Mr Laaouej has good news and bad news: the good news is that he has lightened our agenda, the less good news is that a new item may be added. I'm kidding. I await the text of the motion to have it distributed and see how we will deal with it. I propose that we begin the question of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u8	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, on 1 July the fourth phase of our deconfination will therefore begin, because the epidemiological situation allows it. We will never repeat this enough: if it is possible today, it is thanks to the exemplary mobilisation of healthcare workers, but also of front-line actors and our fellow citizens who have respected confinement. This new phase is therefore excellent news, but there are still areas of shadow. First, the world of the night will have to remain closed at least until September, as we allow events that can accommodate between 200 and 400 people. You know that this situation is simply untenable for the sector, since it involves six months of closure, but also fixed costs. You announced yesterday, and I welcome it, that we will have to support this sector, but how can we do it in practice? Do you not think that a revival of the world of the night would help to frame these festivals and, consequently, to avoid spontaneous gatherings without any respect for the health rules? Second, wearing the mask remains highly recommended in shops and would only be mandatory if the pandemic rebounded. This decision has been severely criticized by some experts. I am thinking, in this case, of Marc Van Ranst or Jean-Luc Gala. From when will we determine when we are facing an epidemic rebound? Above all, why wait for him to protect one another, especially when physical distance is impossible to respect? It is known that GEES has developed a reconfinition plan, which has been communicated to hospitals. However, what about nursing homes, home nurses, general practitioners or pharmacists? When will the mayors be informed of the measures to be taken in the re-entry? And then, will we, at that time, have a strategic stock of masks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the National Security Council decided that masks in the supermarket would not be compulsory, despite the fact that we are now allowed to shop for more than half an hour and that we should no longer go shopping alone, that we should be allowed to go to the store with our family, and especially in spite of the clear advice of the virologists, an opinion that you claim to follow as much as possible. Until yesterday. The shopkeepers are very concerned about this decision. After all, they are exposed to a possible contamination whole days and hours a day, and of course this also affects the health of all of us. I am beginning to wonder what is most important here, the economy or people's health. You also said yesterday that you would force the masks if the condition deteriorated. Then I really fell off my chair. I thought we should all try to improve the situation just now, not to deteriorate. I think you should explain very clearly to the supermarket staff in this hemisphere why you do not put their health first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u10	Mr President, Madam Minister, today a great national movement is on the street as our plenary session begins here this afternoon. A great national movement from the north, south, from the center of the country. Walloons, Flemish, Brussels, workers from Charleroi to Antwerp, from Ghent to Tournai to Liège. In two languages, in twee Talen, but with the same voice. Their slogan: "The world is starting to move again, culture is still at a standstill, but we are still standing." Respect! Respect for all those workers who still dare to claim their due! But in fact, why are they on the street? One hundred days they have the ball in their belly when they have to shop, because the purse is empty; the ball in their belly, because they dare not open their mailbox, because they will not be able to pay the bills. 15% of these workers have not received any income for a hundred days. Why are they on the street? Because they're not fools. Like us, they saw the political maneuver of a great lowness that took place in this House last week. A manoeuvre to block in the acts a proposal which would finally succeed so that, finally, all those workers who are in precarious conditions would obtain temporary unemployment. And yet everyone here defended beak and nails with a lot of empathy: "Yes, we have to do something for this sector, blah blah, blah blah". But when you have to go to practice, it's something else! And these artists are not only forgotten during this entire period of the VOCID-19, they were already forgotten before that period. With your government, you also had a role to play in seeking structural measures. Madam Prime Minister, today I have two specific questions. What are you going to do to ensure that these workers get a decent income, and especially for all those who have had nothing for a hundred days? Yesterday, the National Security Council announced that, as of 1 July, certain activities could resume. That's really great. What prospects can you give them in the longer term?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u11	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, increase the bubbles, but you will continue to apply your rule of four. Your measures are always either too late or unclear or inadequate or without obligation. Now there is again a non-binding recommendation regarding mouth masks. You should know that no-binding recommendations do not work, nor did they work at airports. As usual after your press conferences, there are still many uncertainties and questions left, this time especially with caterers and owners of party rooms. The Association of Flemish Cities and Municipalities also questions the unclear basis on which the municipal authorities will have to decide on these events. But at last, this event sector has some perspective and perspective on relance. Madam Prime Minister, the most important relief measure to be taken now is to avoid a second wave. A second wave would be a new tragedy both in terms of health and economics. The corona crisis has already cost us EUR 50 billion in prosperity. A new wave could mean a further EUR 35 to 40 billion in loss of prosperity. I'm really worried about it. This week, my good colleague, Mr Sneppe, received the answer from Minister De Block's committee that there is no point in testing people coming back from at-risk areas over the coming holiday period. Then it is clear that people really do not learn from the mistakes that have been made. Madam Prime Minister, in order to avoid that second wave, a massive test must be carried out, and there must be sufficient protective equipment. Where do you stand with these preparatory measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u12	Madam Prime Minister, the health situation in our country seems to be improving and we welcome it all. That is why it was important to send a clear message about the next phase of deconfinement, the fourth stage already, which will begin on 1 July next. As you mentioned yesterday, despite the latest encouraging figures, we must remain vigilant because we are not immune to a new rebound in the epidemic and the virus is not harmless. We must continue to actively combat its spread. It is, of course, difficult to accurately predict how the health situation will change in the coming weeks and the answers are never simple because unfortunately they always have consequences for our daily lives. The measures that were communicated yesterday will allow us to take a little more advantage of life after such a difficult period - it must be said - during which we have all made a great deal of efforts to combat this virus. Even if caution is to be exercised, it is important that we be able, gradually, again to enjoy our freedom that we knew before the outbreak. The majority of the activities that have not yet been allowed, Madam Prime Minister, will therefore be allowed again in the coming days, and we are confident that the many established protocols will help combat a new resurgence of the virus and thus help to avoid a possible new wave. However, the protocols alone will not be enough to combat a new spread and we must continue to be cautious, each and every one of us. The rules to be followed are becoming less and less binding, and that is so much better, but it is imperative that we continue to follow them pragmatically and scrupulously. As part of the new step-by-step measures announced yesterday, Madam Prime Minister, could you give us more information about the protocols for mass events and more specifically the demonstrations? You said that wearing the mask was highly recommended but not mandatory, especially in shops. Could it become so in the coming weeks if the situation deteriorates?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u13	Prime Minister, citizens need clarity and a true speech. The numbers are good, it's true, but the virus is still circulating. Defining must be a success. As has been said many times, we must avoid a second wave. Is that possible? Yes. We must avoid reconfiguring. Weapons to avoid this second wave are known. There is first testing, including asymptomatics with a result within 24 hours. Have we been able to do this? Still not! Then there is effective human and digital tracing. He's still skating. There is still the isolation of the porters. Here too, we are not clear. Finally, there is the maintenance of barrier gestures. These indispensable ones seem soon to be forgotten. The refusal of the National Security Council to have a strong and clear speech about the mask clearly contributes to the relaxation of citizens. If it is only recommended, it is not so important. So why don't you go make a little fiesta instead of Flagey or somewhere else? I don't understand you. You seem to have lost sight of the essentials, namely health, health and still health! It is all the more important to be able to maintain the barrier gestures with a clear speech from the authorities since you have decided to widen the bubbles and new automatisms. Many experts have pleaded and still plead for the wearing of the systematic mask in all the places visited, especially where physical distance measurements cannot be preserved. Change your mind, Prime Minister! Impose the wearing of the mask in all frequented places like shops! You said yesterday, "When I protect myself, I protect you." So be up to your words!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, yesterday you launched the press conference with a scold for those participating in illegal cooperation. That scold was justified. Not only do those celebrators themselves violate the directives, they also undermine the support of the majority of the population who do show civic spirit to follow the measures. In the event sector, it appears to be a double bitterness. This sector was first put on hold and was still subject to a lot of restrictions by the National Security Council yesterday, despite the fact that it is prepared to make every effort to organise adapted events, incorporating the necessary security safeguards. Double resentment for the event sector, but also for the entire population, is that illegal training and mass demonstrations can take place without any real sanctioning. I have heard that there are already some requests for such events in Brussels for the coming weeks. For example, I hear that an application was made for a manifestation of jihadist fighters on 5 July, for which the number of participants varies between 1,000 and 2,000. Such events are, of course, not permitted in the current context. Nevertheless, I understand that the organiser wishes to continue his initiative despite the talks with the police that have taken place on this issue. So there is a good chance that this manifestation will continue, and there is also a good chance that this manifestation will get completely out of hand again, with all the riots and looting that took place, as we saw on 7 June. Mevrouw of eerste minister, governing is planning. We stand for a warm summer. There have already been too many examples of flagrant violations of the corona measures. New incidents of the order on 7 June or last weekend can no longer be tolerated. Madam Prime Minister, what will you do about such illegal events? How will the government ensure that the Brussels authorities act in an appropriate and timely manner this time and do not let the situation get out of hand? In short, how will you ensure that the corona directives are not further undermined by such incidents?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u15	Madam Prime Minister, events bringing together 200 people inside and 400 people outside, the beginning of an opening for the artistic, cultural and event sector, the beginning of a redeployment... These are finally prospects for those who, for weeks, have been asking us with a legitimate insistence to consider the challenges that are theirs. We therefore welcome this decision of the National Security Council (NSC). This crisis, as we know, has hit all the workers of the arts, for whom the crisis has brutally cut short any form of creative, critical and original expression. For all these people, the world has stopped brutally, as they remind us today. Their world stopped, just like ours, by the way. Artistic expression is, however, indispensable and beneficial to any democratic society. Yesterday, the CNS finally sent a message to the entire sector. Yes, cultural expression can take up its place in the public sphere. Yes, it is legitimate, after such a crisis, to need to escape, to create, to dream and to discover, to raise awareness but also to claim, to express oneself and to manifest. Yes, culture and its public can and must be found, but with caution and responsibility. On 9 July we are waiting for an important meeting in this Parliament. Can you commit, on behalf of the members of the government, to accompany these workers in the arts and expression to the end of this crisis? Can you support strong measures to protect an essential economic sector, and can you commit yourself to making the post-COVID-19 world a cultural sector priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u16	Madam Prime Minister, we can once again move forward in our Corona approach. In the coming days we will start with a new chapter with further relaxations. Last week, our group called for relaxation in the event sector. We are pleased, Madam Prime Minister, that you are giving this sector oxygen again. The fact that the bubble goes from 10 to 15 members will prevent many families from worrying about who may or may not come. When there can be wedding and communion parties again, in July with 50 and after August possibly with more, we bring families together again. I also believe that it is a good thing that our markets count more stalls in the summer. Madam Prime Minister, your government's measures have been able to solve a great deal. Many Belgians have respected the measures, and they deserve the relaxations. When your government and the National Security Council take action, there are always comments. There are supporters, but there will always be opponents. Also for this chapter of relaxation. Among other things, about the mouth masks. The government has followed the view of the GEES. Not all experts agreed. They have made a compromise, and that compromise has been followed by the government. Madam Prime Minister, you and the government are now recommending mouth masks. How can we encourage the Belgians to set them up in difficult and dangerous conditions? You have also announced that the measures can be revoked if the figures change badly. What precise conditions are needed to return to the measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u17	Minister, since the beginning of the health crisis, municipalities have been on the front line. They have managed the situation to the great satisfaction of the citizens. I want to pay tribute here to all the communal agents who have worked really hard on the ground, with the police, for three months. The municipalities have too often had to make up for the shortcomings of the federal government. This is how most Belgians received a mask from their commune, almost more than a month ago, while the federal masks have just arrived and are still controversial today. We can test in my town. I can assure you that the tests of the masks distributed there will be much more conclusive than those carried out today on the masks distributed by the federal government. Yesterday, you announced a new package of deconfining measures. These measures are not always clear and difficult to secure the support of the entire population. It has also been observed on the ground with the rallies of the last few days. To enforce these measures, you simply send the hot potato back to the mayors. You are doing so well that many of them have rightly complained about it this morning. Clearly, it is the National Security Council that decides what is not allowed. The mayor has nothing to say, but it is he who must enforce the decisions, with a police force already tested by three months of crisis, and without any help from the federal. When some mayors take up their responsibilities, they are called to order by your Minister of the Interior. It can no longer last that way, Madam Prime Minister. In concrete terms, what measures does the government intend to take to support the municipalities and mayors who have been in the forefront since the beginning of the crisis? Are you going to clarify in concrete terms what the mayors can organise or authorize in connection with rallies? Can they allow a brocante, a kermesse or even larger gatherings?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u18	Mr President, the positive development in health data will enable us to move to Stage 4 on 1 July 2020 and to envisage additional relaxations. However, a step backwards is never excluded. We must always remind the people of this. The trainings that were there call for a position. The training that we saw last weekend and a few weeks ago is not without consequences. Of course, there are many reasons to celebrate or to come together. However, by participating in joint training, the participants have put at risk the efforts that everyone has made over the past few months. However, the rules of the National Security Council are very clear. By ignoring them, the people concerned have not only put their own health at risk, but also, and above all, the health of their relatives. Such behaviour can also give the impression that there is no more risk. It has also generated anger and frustration in those who have been in the front line since the beginning of the crisis and those who have generally followed the directives closely. Although the trends are positive, the coronavirus, as I have already indicated, continues to demand new victims every day. I therefore call on everyone to show civilism, responsibility and solidarity with the most vulnerable. The police also have an important role to play in this respect, either by trying to prevent such a situation with its presence or by blocking people. In any case, this is not an easy situation. To those who explain here that these gatherings are the result of measures that are not clear, I ask to explain this to all those who respect the rules without difficulty! Frankly, it's a small step too far! If you need clarity, I will remind you that this kind of gathering is not only forbidden but also dangerous! It will therefore no longer be possible to say that it is not clear! New outbreaks of contagion in some countries should encourage us to be very cautious. If the prohibitions are limited, they must be scrupulously complied with. Barrier gestures are also indispensable, for the benefit of all. As has been the case since the beginning of the crisis, epidemiological follow-up will continue to guide us in the process of decoupling. Health above all! If the trends remain positive, new prohibitions can be lifted. If, unfortunately, the virus is to regain its strength, then we will need to strengthen certain security measures. In this case, the wearing of the mask could be made mandatory in the public areas that are very frequented. This is exactly what the EGE experts recommend in their report. Vous ne l'avez pas encore reçu, je vais vous en citer un passage: "In case of sustained increase in viral transmission levels for an extended period of time and/or indoor activities with larger audiences, the compulsory use of masks in crowds and indoor settings is needed." The GEES report therefore does not call for the requirement to wear the mask at this time. You will see this yourself when you read the report, which will be posted on Monday. The NSC continues to base its opinion on the reports submitted by the GEES. It is true that he decides and decides, but first he bases his opinion on the reports. These reports are validated by all members of the GEES, without exception, including those who express a different opinion in tweets or interviews. It is a choice and above all an individual freedom, so it is not a reproach. That's a simple finding. It is important to point out that we obviously want to identify an epidemiological threshold from which the wearing of the mask would be made compulsory in the public space which is very frequented. Only the rate of spread of the virus (R0) cannot be taken into account alone as a indicator of the health situation, a fortiori when hospitalization figures are very low. We want to act, not when it is too late, as some have claimed, but when it is necessary – and therefore, without waiting for the second wave. Our goal is to anticipate and avoid it. It is also a question – and you have heard it in what I said to you in the GEES report – to identify the particular circumstances in which wearing the mask could also be made mandatory, as at very large gatherings. The National Security Council and the group of experts share this analysis and will. A reflection is under way. In the meantime, I would like to remind you that wearing the mask is mandatory in certain circumstances and remains strongly recommended. This strong recommendation has so far been well followed by the population. Belgians and all those who live here have, for the time being, correctly observed the recommendations so that we can see that the transmission curve of the virus decreases day after day. As Mr Verherstraeten said at the moment, that they benefit positively from what their exemplary behaviour can bring them today, that is, a little more freedom, of course, but always with respect for health measures. There is a debate at European level on the opening of external borders. These external borders are not yet open, except for essential travel. The issue of quarantine is important here. There is no point in deciding on this today without a European approach. I agree that we keep telling people how important it is to wear a mask, if necessary. If I protect myself, I'll protect you. [[.]] That is very important to communicate with the population. I have the impression that this message is being heard and followed. The federal government is indeed preparing for a second wave. We will share that work with the Länder with a view to a comprehensive approach. You are well aware that crisis management and the management of a potential second crisis can only be envisaged through effective collaboration between the federal and the regions. From next Wednesday, as I said, new relaxations will enter into force. I won't go into detail, but it's about the personal bubble, among other things. The bubble of close contacts currently limited to ten will be increased to fifteen. It is about the number of different people that one can see per week, but also about the size of the groups. We understand that fifteen may not seem very much, but they are contacts in the private sphere, which we know are closer and in which the virus can spread faster. Therefore, there must be a reasonable limit. The protocols that refer to the dense contact bubble can thus be adapted to fifteen people. I fully agree that it is a lot at the end of the journey if five additional people who are important to someone in daily life are part of the bubble. Maybe that's not always enough, but it's still a lot. I also know that some people regret the 50-person limit for receptions and compare it with the wider limits for other events. That's not a good comparison. When it comes to a public event, the bubbles do not mix. Not only does the organisation of a public event involve strict protocols and government control, there is also the fact that people do not know each other and therefore normally do not interfere. This is not the case for private parties, where it is known that safe distance is much more difficult to respect. Intrinsically, this poses a major risk of spreading the virus. With regard to private events, the maximum number of persons present is 50. On the other hand, for indoor events with public, it amounts to 200 and 400 for outdoor events. It is a public that is often seated in infrastructure for this purpose and with protocols that must be defined even before opening. These protocols will allow us to manage not only the way in which each one sits, in bubbles or separated according to the possibilities, but also the arrivals and exits, the use of sanitary facilities – a whole series of things much harder to achieve in the private sphere. The question of the closing time of bars and restaurants was also raised at the National Security Council. After listening to the actors on the ground and in consultation with the experts of the GEES, we decided not to change the closing time as currently applied, i.e. one hour in the morning, not only because the rule is clear – there is therefore no reason to change it – but, above all, because extending the opening time of bars and restaurants would not provide an answer to the problems posed. This is the decision of the National Security Council, where, I would like to point out, not only political leaders but also officials of the country's police and other security services. They believe that delaying closure could result in a mere displacement of potential difficulties later in the night. The will of the security forces is to work in the most preventive way possible through a police presence in the places concerned. It is true that, despite the opening of the last sectors, some are still closed. Nightlife activities and mass events remain prohibited, given the continuing risk in epidemiological terms. We are aware that the situation is particularly complicated for these sectors. That is why I recalled yesterday that they should continue to be supported either at the federal level, as is done cross-cuttingly with a whole series of measures or more ad hocly, or at the level of the regions which have important competence in this field. As far as the cultural sector is concerned, I would like to point out, if necessary, that it is the Community level which is competent. However, with regard to the limited aspects that fall within the federal jurisdiction, we have not remained inactive. First of all, artists as well as actors in other sectors (the night world, for example) benefit from the general measures taken under the social and economic protection plan such as unemployment for force majeure, the right to bridge for the self-employed and the postponement of certain charges. Secondly, in view of the very gradual resumption of their activities, more specific measures were intended for them. For example, in the third part, we have decided to set up a consumer cheque of 300 euros, aimed in particular, but not only, at the purchase of goods and services in sectors such as culture. This cheque is 100% deductible and defied. At the same time, this Parliament has indeed taken control of some of the issues that were debated at our superkern meetings, but all the parties present have preferred that Parliament keep their hands, which we have obviously accepted, because you are still in control of your work. You will therefore allow me not to comment on this. Some more structural issues, such as the establishment of a genuine status as an artist, remain to be addressed. This issue has already been discussed at an interdepartmental Conference on Culture and at a meeting that I myself organised on 25 May with representatives of the sector and all the ministers concerned. A new inter-ministerial conference is scheduled for July 14, and I am confident that we will return to the status of artists at that time. The above issue is not part of crisis management and will certainly be the subject of exciting discussions with a view to forming a government, I hope, quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u19	Madam Prime Minister, I thank you for your answers, even though you have not answered my crucial question on the plan for re-establishment. I find this very interesting. On the other hand, you justify maintaining the closing of the night world by the fact that it would actually be more difficult to prevent the spread of the virus after 1:00 p.m. I think this is a mistake, especially since the world of night has a great deal of expertise in the field of safety and prevention. To do without this experience today is a mistake to my mind. Madam Prime Minister, you have not answered my question about what concrete measures you intend to take to support this sector. As far as masks are concerned, you tell us that you have followed the advice of the experts from GEES. You have not always followed the recommendations of the experts of the GEES. So you could have followed another path, especially since the WHO today strongly encourages the wearing of the mask, especially in closed and heavily frequented places. I must also recall that if we did not impose the wearing of the mask earlier, it was because your government was unable to provide it in time to the entire population. Today, there is a relaxation of the (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u20	Madam Prime Minister, at the moment we all want one thing in this country, a carefree summer with family and friends. No one wants to go back to a strict lockdown for both human and economic reasons. Madam Prime Minister, it is your job to take care of this and protect the people. However, you do not do that by going directly against the advice of the virologists.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u21	You didn't listen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u22	I've been listening, but that's why I don't believe it. I know there were discussions within the GEES as well. Madam Prime Minister, what primes? I think that's people's health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u23	Madam Prime Minister, as has been said, the entire cultural sector and its workers deserve our support too, because they are important in a society. We saw last week different right-wing parties effectively block emergency measures. These right-wing parties, I will quote: the N-VA, the VB, the CD&V and the open Vld have blocked the measures that we have put forward here in Parliament. These were emergency measures to specifically help all these workers who have been receiving nothing for 100 days at all. Some of us will be able to leave quietly on vacation. In any case, we are asking here, and your government, the minister, to take steps to remedy this situation as quickly as possible. We also want to continue to encourage the entire cultural sector and its workers to continue to mobilize and not to trust. Indeed, we have seen this: it is up to them to take their fate into their own hands and to continue their struggle. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u24	Madam Prime Minister, I have not received an answer to my questions as to what your preparatory measures are to avoid the second wave. The federal government is now handing out mouth masks, although much too late, and the last word is not yet said about their production and procurement, but you are handing out mouth masks to the people and not blinders. The smallest child can see that the government has mishandled the corona crisis. In order to avoid that second wave, it is important that those many mistakes and blunders never repeat themselves, Madam Prime Minister. I framed them all in a book. It is worth it, I will translate it for you in French if it is necessary, because those blunders must never repeat themselves. Therefore, Mr President, it is not to explain that there are all kinds of parliamentary committees of inquiry being set up in this House, but when it comes to an unprecedented crisis involving ten thousand deaths, many unnecessary deaths, the highest number of deaths per inhabitant, one is too cowardly to set up a genuine parliamentary committee of inquiry for that purpose. I wonder what people are afraid of. I think that's a...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u25	Mrs Pas, the latter is a matter for Parliament and not for the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u26	Madam Prime Minister, the saying is known: there is no deafer than the one who wants to hear, and there is no worse blinder than the one who does not want to see! You are right to recall that the CNS and GEES reports are validated by all members, even those who then criticize them on Twitter or elsewhere. You are right to recall that mass gatherings are prohibited. You are right to recall that, in certain circumstances, the mask is mandatory and, more generally, highly recommended. Some people are telling us here that if wearing the mask is not mandatory, you might as well have a party instead of Flagey. Mrs Fonck, this type of shortcut amounts to a lack of regard for the individual responsibility and sense of responsibility that all political figures – as examples – must have. Madam Prime Minister, I would like to thank you very much for reminding us that citizenship, responsibility and solidarity are the guarantors of our security for all.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u27	Dear colleague, my responsibilities, I take them! From the beginning, I pleaded for wearing the mask. In the background, it is not when it is no longer necessary to wake up because it will be too late and it will be impossible – or extremely difficult – to change habits. Prime Minister, you explain to us here, by quoting the GEES report, that scientists did not recommend wearing the mask. The GEES is not just scientists! He had to make a compromise with the economy. Whether Erika Vlieghe, Emmanuel André, Marc Van Ranst or Steven Van Gucht, all pleaded to keep a combination of barrier gestures, which is fundamental to avoid a rebound. Prime Minister, I do not understand your decision, as do many citizens, let alone caregivers. I think you're making a public health mistake and I hope we don't regret it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u28	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your comprehensive reply. However, I have not had a specific answer to my own questions. I would like to mention two points which I hope will be taken into account in the coming days and weeks. Give the people who do follow the rules, the professionals of the event sector, the necessary confidence that they deserve and give them clarity as soon as possible about what is possible from August onwards. Organising an event takes time and preparation. For those who do not comply and for the organisation of illegal events, there must be a clear and official ban on such events at each application. If the manifestation is to take place, then the government, the police, must act proactively and actively, with clear instructions. Thus an illegal manifestation is smothered in the bud and cannot get out of control. The police are perfectly capable of that. There is only a need for political will to impose this effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u29	Prime Minister, you spoke of caution. I was talking about him, too. The prudence, of course, but also the consideration of what this crisis has meant for a whole sector and the actions that will call for accompaniment. I asked you for a commitment. You said, "No comment." But you also mentioned a new stage on 14 July 2020. This makes us a second appointment today, July 9 and then July 14, 2020, to say that obviously it will be absolutely necessary to take into account and consider that the return to normal for this sector will not take place before autumn 2021 or even in 2022. I will end by saying that culture is the soul of a society and that it tells us what we are. I really hope that, in the post-crisis period, it will be able to say what we are through this history, this crisis, this moment and the preservation of the democratic system dear to us. Thank you, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u30	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, the virus is not gone yet, but we are on the right track step by step. If the virus remains under control, further relaxations such as discotheques opening are possible. That must be the ambition. The challenge for the coming weeks and months is to avoid the second wave if it is possible and if it is not possible, to keep it to the strict minimum. Madam Prime Minister, you said that steps may also need to be taken backwards. That should keep us attentive. We should take one step backwards if we have to, and then take several steps forward. If the reproductive factor becomes more than 1, if the virus is gaining ground again, we must dare to revise things again, and then go back forward. Meanwhile, I call on all Belgians to enjoy the summer. You've earned that. Enjoy in moderation, but enjoy carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u31	Prime Minister, as we know, the virus is still present in our country. All measures taken are therefore justified. You said: you rely heavily on the mayors to enforce and respect them. Trust them! Trust the mayors. When, for example, mayors go beyond what the National Security Council imposes, saying that in shops in their communes, you have to wear a mask, do not send the Minister of the Interior to put them back to order. Trust them; and also try to support them. We need more federal support in the municipalities. In the coming weeks, we need more clarification on what is allowed or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u32	Mr President, Minister, this week we learn that the youth judges of the French-speaking court of first instance in Brussels are threatening – because of a blatant lack of judicial staff – to release all juvenile offenders from prison this Monday. Obviously, they are calling for help, as they are no longer able to cope with all the cases they have to deal with and will therefore have to prioritize, i.e. manage the cases of minors in danger first and leave the cases of juvenile offenders aside. The question of the shortage of staff at the Brussels Court of First Instance is not new. Already in 2015, the alarm bell had been activated. Today, this structural problem is perhaps even more complicated because of the crisis of the VOCID-19. Minister, you have announced that many recruitments are underway to complement the court's judicial staff. As a result, sixty-six posts would be filled and the occupancy rate would increase from 79 to 90 per cent. What good news! We look forward to it. However, this is probably not for the moment. In the short term, what solutions do you propose to prevent the extreme track envisaged by the youth judges in their open letter from being applied?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u33	Mr President, Mrs Gilson, the current occupancy rate for judicial staff in Brussels is 80.4% of the budget. I have always validated the vacancy proposals of the Brussels College of Courts and Courts, but statutory recruitment is slow. Currently, fifty-five recruitments are still under way for the French-speaking tribunal, including a high proportion of clerks. Due to the suspension of the selections by the Selor between March and June, the interviews for the statutory selections of the Registrars will take place in July and September. The statutory recruitment of clerks mainly attracts internal candidates eligible for promotion. In the meantime, the court also sees the departure of staff entitled to the transfer, as it is difficult to retain staff in Brussels. In order to meet the most urgent needs, we are trying to use contractual recruitment. However, the supervisory authority rightly requires that statutory vacancies be launched before making contractual selections. In February, 11 contractual posts were awarded in support of the upcoming large-scale trials, resulting in nine external recruitments. In April and May, it was reported to the court that he could begin selections for thirty-one contractors. Contracts are being drawn up to enable the persons concerned to take up their duties in a timely manner. Pending the recruitment of the Registrars, authorization was also given to grant thirteen additional staff members the temporary appointment of Registrar. As part of the new recruitment plan launched on 8 June, ten staff seats – including five clerks – were again granted to the French-speaking tribunal in Brussels. The distribution of staff among the various sections of the court is the autonomous competence of the Chief Registrar. A consultation in this regard was planned with the trade unions on 26 March. For obvious reasons, this consultation could not take place and was postponed until 7 July.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u34	Thank you, Minister. While the MR group cannot conceive that cases involving minors at risk should be put on hold, it cannot conceive that this is the case for cases involving juvenile offenders. The message of impunity, for those young people in the process, would have far-reaching consequences. Placing a young offender and giving an answer to his or her act also gives him or her a chance to get out of crime. I understand that statutory recruitment takes time. The problem is structural and does not date from today. The return I have from the field is that there is a cruel shortage of clerks. I hear that contract clerks are being used, and I welcome that because it is a faster solution. But these contracts must, of course, be sustained in order to guarantee the independence of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u35	Mrs Soors' question concerns Europol's report on the extreme right. I know that the issue has also been raised in committee at the request of another colleague, but the new element that Mrs Soors refers to is Europol's report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u36	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a nasty déjà vu that the support for extremism is growing, that the call for action is getting louder and that followers are being called on to prepare for the physical struggle and to arm themselves. However, this is not 2012 and we are not on the eve of the terror that was the result of the departures to Syria and Iraq. It is 2020 and we are talking about the increasing threat of the extreme right. In the Europol report published the day before yesterday, it is written in black and white that last year, not the jihadis, not the extreme left, but the extreme right, the majority of attempts to attack Europe. More specifically in Belgium, 85% of the far-right organisations are linked to Flanders. Three thousand people are known to the police for right-wing extremism. Three thousand people! Mr Minister, the disturbing facts are there. Now it's time for policy. Security services must try to manage yet another threat, while they have been on their gums for years. The Local Integral Safety Cells that are supposed to follow radicalised individuals indicate that they do not have the tools to do so. Teachers and first-line workers ask for help because they do not know how to react when faced with extreme right-wing young people. Minister, do you share Europol's analysis that right-wing extremism is currently the greatest threat to our national security? Will you allocate more resources to the security services? Will you, as happened in the past with projects to tackle the Syrian fighters, also allocate funds to projects and local authorities to deal with this growing phenomenon, which poses a threat? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u37	Mrs Soors, the Europol report is of course no surprise, because the Belgian intelligence services and the OCAD have also pointed out the extreme right-wing threat. I have already referred to this in two answers to your previous questions. If I read the press correctly, you'd think I'd take that threat lightly. What amazes me somewhat is that Ecolo-Green calls for a tightening of terrorist legislation. After all, it is already very strict, something that you have not always been strong for in the past. Training and self-training for terrorist attacks are already punishable today. I'm open to refinement, but I'd like to know which one. We follow the right-wing extremists, like the left-wing extremists, the jihad extremists and all extremists through the common database and do the follow-up in the Local Task Forces. We are committed to that at the most. Supporting local authorities is a matter for the Minister of the Interior, while education and follow-up of radicalised persons is a matter for the Länder. Of course, I would very much like to be competent for both, but I am not. As far as the federal security services are concerned, I should like to point out that the interdepartmental commission from which we spent years for terrorism was created after the attacks. From this year on, it will be fully integrated into the standardized appropriations. Mrs Soors, if necessary, I would like to convince you that I will be as strict on extreme right-wing terror as I will on jihadist terror. For me, there is only one answer, particularly in terms of stringency and strong prevention. To give the impression that I would take one lighter than the other, you should not do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u38	Minister, thank you in turn for your reply, although I am disappointed. You are actually saying that what is there is, is good enough and will have to be enough, while we see that the phenomenon is on the rise and that what is there is, therefore, is not enough to prevent the phenomenon at the moment. We have all seen what extremists are capable of. We have seen the crimes against humanity in Syria, we have known the attacks in Zaventem. I ask you very simply to ensure that we do not first have to experience an Anders Breivik in Belgium. The various authorities are indeed competent at different levels, but they would like to say that they must be a multidisciplinary policy and a chain approach. I would ask you to do what is necessary from the federal level and, if necessary, to pull the cart so that we do not have to go through an attack on Oslo before we take any further steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u39	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday Mr Steven Vanden Berghe, top finance officer, said that billions of euros of black money are parked in Belgian banks' accounts here in our country. No taxes were paid on that money. He called for the money to come to the surface and for the owners of that black money to pay a fair contribution. After all, the State can use that income more than ever. Minister, Mr Vanden Berghe does, of course, have a point. We are experiencing a deep economic crisis. We must invest massively in our economy, in jobs and in social security, which, of course, costs money. It would be unthinkable and very unfair at that time to leave the black money, which has been deposited in our country's accounts, untouched. So, Minister, we must ensure that, through a strong and effective fraud policy, everyone contributes their share. How can we do that? Firstly, we must ensure greater transparency. After all, it is incredible that we know that billions of euros of black money are in accounts here in our country, but the tax authorities cannot handle it. Secondly, we must draw a line under the regularisations. Whoever has black money has had enough time to report it and pay a fine. So we must ensure that tax fraudsters are dealt with and prosecuted thoroughly by the courts. For this, the Justice Department needs more money and more people. As the top finance minister points out, this is an investment that pays itself back in multiples. Mr Minister, my question to you is very simple. What is your view on an effective fraud policy that ensures that everyone does their part effectively?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u40	Minister, the head of the ruling department, Steven Vanden Berghe, a senior FPS finance officer, said: "You don't necessarily have to go get the black money in tax havens. Billions of euros of dirty money are hiding in Belgian bank accounts." How is it possible that billions of euros of black money are on Belgian accounts? There are two reasons for this: on the one hand, tax amnesties and, on the other, Belgian bank secrecy. As far as tax amnesties are concerned, it is recalled that in 2003 Didier Reynders introduced the first tax amnesty introducing unique liberating declarations. Two years later, he made a single bis amnesty and then, under the Di Rupo government, there was a third amnesty of MM. Geens and Crombez. Finally, there was a fourth amnesty with liberal N-VA sauce. And today Steven Vanden Berghe proposes a fifth amnesty. During the first three amnesties, the income of fraudulent capital was regulated, but not fraudulent capital! It is these billions that are on the accounts in Belgium and the banks are not obliged to report them, since it is already on the accounts. The second problem is Belgian bank secrecy. On this issue, Belgium has always been lagging behind. A small reform took place in 2011, but bank secrecy still exists. The president of the ruling service proposes to delete it. The situation is aberrant in Belgium. Indeed, the Belgian tax authorities receive information on the money that is on the accounts abroad, but do not receive information on the money that is on the accounts in Belgium. Imagine! Minister, my simple questions concern the two proposals of the President of the ruling. I share one but not the other. Do you agree with a fifth tax amnesty? Do you agree with the removal of bank secrecy in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u41	Minister, I am not going to hold you accountable for everything your predecessors have not done. Among these, and I'm talking about the last of them, a minister came to tell us the truths – and I'm kind! – about the results of the fight against tax fraud; something you have not done. However, today you are an accountant for what you can do to better combat this phenomenon. The Advance Rulings Service – this state service that gives opinions on tax arrangements after considering their possible legality – is a most relevant and sophisticated observatory to give us advice, if any, and that it is, in any case, important to hear and listen. Its president – who is not just anyone – announces that billions of dirty money are sleeping on bank accounts in Belgium; not in tax havens – which is well known – but in Belgium. Mr Finance Minister, we know that this year the deficit will reach EUR 50 billion. So what are you going to do to put our State back in a position to fight financial crime and serious or organised tax fraud, in particular, as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u42	As you point out, the system of regularisations has been in place since 2003. The last regularization is that of 2016, of my predecessor. The last regularization was different from the previous in a number of areas. Firstly, there is talk of a rate of 40% on old-age capital and penalty rates up to 30% on untired capital. Secondly, at the last regularisation, it was mandatory to regularize the aged capital, while in the past that was only an option. For the prescribed capital referred to, during the second and third regularization campaigns, significant amounts were repatriated but remained unreported. I think that's the biggest part that the chairman of the ruling committee is talking about. Indeed, he indicates that those capitals are still subject to criminal proceedings against old-age capital. We also see that in recent years there have been many capitals coming from the second and the third regularization, which are re-marked through the fourth regularization, but now not only for the proceeds, but also for the capital itself. The parquets play an important role in this. The Di Rupo Government and the Michel Government have ensured that additional staff were recruited for the public prosecutors in order to be able to deal with these files efficiently. You're saying the administration doesn't have access to the data. You know that's not totally correct. You know very well that the administration already has the right to question the central point of contact of the National Bank of Belgium in case of fraud. It is therefore perfectly possible to ask what capital is held in accounts in Belgium and not only abroad. You also know that in Belgium, the household discount system is a tax-free system at source which, from my point of view, is a very effective tax-free system. More generally than, as I have pointed out, the fight against tax fraud is an absolute priority. If everyone does their part, everyone will eventually do their part. In fact, it is those who follow the rules the most disadvantaged by those who do not comply with the rules. It's obvious to me. When there is a government with a full mandate, a intensified fight against tax fraud must be absolutely part of that mandate for me. Should a government be formed that makes it a priority, and should my party be a part of it, you will see that you have an absolute partner for us to conduct the fight against tax fraud in a fair but decisive way. It will be up to the next government to decide whether additional measures are needed to draw the last regrets. That will be a consideration for another government. Four systems of regularization have been implemented. Is it necessary to introduce an additional system, as indicated by the chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure? That is not within the mandate of the current government. I hope that there will soon be a government with a full mandate, which will then be able to take the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u43	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. As far as the latter is concerned, I fully agree with you. There needs to be a government that has a strong re-launch policy. Relance policies cannot be pursued without fiscal justice. Everyone has to do their part. Today there are far too many people and companies who pay far too much tax, because a small group pays far too little. Of course, the tax fraudsters are there. We cannot keep looking away from the billions of black money in accounts here in our country. So what are we supposed to do? Firstly, we must ensure that the tax authorities know what is in those accounts in our country. Secondly, we must ensure a policy of persecution without pardon. This means more people and more resources for the Justice Department to tackle tax fraudsters. Everyone has to do their part.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u44	Minister, do you realize what you're saying to justify bank secrecy? You're saying the IRS can lift bank secrecy if there's fraud. But how can he know that there is fraud if he cannot access the accounts beforehand? It's kind of like saying to the police officer, "You can force the driver to blow in the ball if the driver drank," but you don't know in advance if he had been drinking. Excuse me, but you're actually justifying a system, in Belgium, where if someone steals a smartphone, he goes to court, he goes to jail. On the other hand, a great fraudster, who frauds millions of euros, tens of millions of euros, this one will first be able to have a ruling, then he will be able to have a tax amnesty, and then he will be able to have a criminal transaction. A whole system that finally allows the big fraudsters to escape the sanctions. It is important to know that in Belgium, small fraud, which means the 50 % least rich, amounts to EUR 200 per year if any. Large fraudsters, the ultra-rich, represent an average of €5 million a year. That is the reality that you justify by refusing to lift bank secrecy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u45	Minister, the lessons to be learned are clear. There are 50 billion euros in deficit in 2020, and it is not in the pockets of workers, social recipients, families that they will have to be picked up. No! The solution, you have it! It is in this endemic tax fraud in Belgium which makes the president of a state department explain to us that there are billions of euros of undeclared money in some bank accounts. That is where we will have to find solutions to bail out the state funds! Another lesson, Minister. Let us not embark on solutions that are never just sparadraps. No! The problem must be tackled at the root. Let us strengthen the means of justice, strengthen the means of the tax administration, strengthen the means of the fight against dirty money laundering, to go to get money where it is located rather than to make the policy-sparadrap that until now has shown neither its effects nor its effectiveness on the field of public finances! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u46	Mr President, Minister, the sun has been shining for a few days and we are currently experiencing the longest days of the year. I think I can also say that we are now witnessing almost the warmest days of the year. This is ideal weather for sinking to the Flemish coast and perhaps even looking for some cooling. The bathing season starts the day after tomorrow, Saturday. Strandedders play an extremely important role in ensuring that everything is safe. The vast majority of our beach rescuers are job students, boys and girls who had a heavy, intensive education, including CPR, and successfully completed. I do not need to convince you that a drowning person should start CPR as soon as possible, by mouth-to-mouth or any other means of ventilating and compression, especially when the drowning person has been deprived of oxygen, in order to maximize the chances of survival and minimise the risk of neurological damage. The corona pandemic has made sure that mouth-to-mouth ventilation is no longer possible. That's why the intercommunal rescue service bought about 150 ventilator balloons. Afterwards, the rescue service of your federal government got the message that, according to the law, the beach rescuers who can't use ventilator balloons. In the current situation, the beach rescuers can do CPR, but not ventilate. The bathing season starts within less than 48 hours, but there is still no solution. One of my daughters is a savior by the sea and she asked me yesterday with some indignation whether she should watch a drowning man and let him or her die. It is of course a rhetorical question, because the answer is no, but I do understand that very pertinent question. Madam Secretary, how come you have not provided a solution for CPR? You cannot argue that you are surprised by the summer, because summer comes back every year, even on the same day every year, so we should have known this in good time. What message do you have for all the beach savers who currently do not know whether and how they can and can do their job? Of course, they want to be able to do their job well. What will you do to ensure the safety of all our bathers from Saturday?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u47	Mr Anseeeuw, we were contacted by the coastal rescuers at the end of last week, but it had already been thrown into the media. They were contacted and promised that a solution would be sought. You know that this requires legal advice and that the advice we give must be correct. They did indeed buy unsuspecting so-called bag-valve-masks to ventilate any drownings, even during the corona crisis. There is a legal framework that determines who is allowed to perform medical procedures in our country for the benefit of the patient. Some actions involving a risk should only be carried out by healthcare providers who have specific training for this purpose. In principle, the use of a mask and a breathing balloon for the ventilation of patients is a medical procedure reserved for healthcare professionals who are qualified to do so. That is not the case for all saviors. It is also true that an ordinary mouth-to-mouth breathing in the corona crisis is impossible. The Belgian CPR Board points out that the bag-valve mask for CPR in cardiac arrest is better not used because aerosols are created. There is also a higher risk of infection. Only in specific cases such as drowning will it be necessary to use a ventilator balloon. You're talking about resuscitation, but that doesn't require it. It's mostly used in drowning. Provision is made for an exception in the law determining who may perform which medical treatment is not regulated on one, two, three. There are mandatory advisory procedures. That takes a lot of time, time we don't have right now. It's about life-saving actions. In the Criminal Code, in Article 422a, there is a duty to assist. Failure to provide assistance to a person in great danger is punishable, provided that one can help without being a serious danger to himself or others. Our coastal rescuers can make use of this if they have to resuscitate a drone. I hope, of course, that this is not necessary. In extreme need, aid must be given and protected. There was contact with them today, and they get this answer. Your daughter shouldn't ask anymore, you can tell her.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u48	Mr President, Minister, your answer is quite appalling. You waited until last week to be contacted. Control is forward-thinking, but apparently that is not for you. This contrasts sharply with Flemish minister Demir who has released up to 250,000 euros to purchase additional protection material for the rescuers at sea. You have now given a whole exposé on the legislation behind which rescuers can hide when they cannot perform that ventilator. Those saviors do want to save those lives if they have to. They're not looking for anything to hide behind, they want to do their job. You have not given a single answer as to how they can do their job from Saturday if there is a drowning man. Then they must not be able to wave a code of conduct, but they must be able to save the drowning man. You say balloons aren't always good. I'm assuming so, but drowning can be used. And drowning or almost drowning is something people sometimes do in the sea. There's no point in looking ahead. You're gonna keep chasing the facts. We see this as a local government in other matters as well. The pool may open again, but we do not know under what conditions, but it is next Wednesday that it opens again. That's how everyone keeps running after the facts. And the saviors still don't know how to do their job. This is appalling. It's about saving lives, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u49	Mr President, Minister, the high-speed 5G network can bring great benefits to our people and our businesses. It also offers opportunities to make a huge technological leap forward. We have often said this about the medical sector or the self-driving vehicles: new applications will come for the good of all of us. As far as the impact on our health is concerned, all scientific reports show that there will be no harmful impact, but we must ensure that this important technology is well protected. Our daily lives and our privacy cannot be suddenly hacked or undermined. Moreover, there are many sensitive institutions in our country, such as NATO or the European Commission. There is a European directive with a toolbox to protect the 5G infrastructure. Each country therefore decides how it will implement this and how strict it wants protection. I understand that the National Security Council has taken a decision in this regard and that there will be restrictions on supplies and infrastructure. I therefore have the following questions. What are these limitations? Which suppliers will be subject to these restrictions? Will this slow down the rollout of 5G?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u50	Minister, at the end of January 2020 the European Commission announced the so-called 5G toolbox. There are a lot of directives on cyber security for the future telecom network. In particular, the use or limitation of so-called high-risk vendors is a very important element in this. For example, these 5G equipment providers will not be allowed to be present in the core, the heart of the network. Another limitation applies to a number of sensitive locations in our country, for example where an important political or economic activity takes place. No high-risk vendors shall be installed in these places. The telecom operators are also asked to use a multi-vendor strategy and if not to put all their eggs in one basket. Can you explain the decisions taken by the National Security Council on this subject on Monday? Is there going to be a list of those sensitive locations? What happens to the list of high-risk vendors? Who's gonna make up that list? Is that the government, is that you, Minister, along with your cabinet, or are we following the security services in that? Minister, it is important that you communicate clearly. In the communication you have sent this week, I read that there will be strict conditions to prevent non-wishful use. That's nice, but clearly it's not. The telecom operators who have to order their hardware today must clearly know who is and who is not in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u51	Mr President, it is true that the 5G infrastructure is a critical infrastructure for the digital future of our country. At the National Security Council last Monday, we decided to take a very clear position on the analysis carried out by the services on the abuse and other risks of the deployment of the 5G network. On the basis of that analysis, it was very consciously chosen to maximize the protection of infrastructure and equipment and introduce measures to ensure that our country will not depend on high-risk foreign suppliers. This is, of course, also due to the fact that Brussels is a diplomatic capital, that NATO is here, that the European Commission is here and that our companies and R&D centres need super-secure 5G infrastructure. Certain high-risk manufacturers are well aware that operators will no longer be allowed to install equipment in the core and backbone of the network. However, we still allow certain antennas to be installed for 35 % of the sites on the outside. At the same time, we point out that the security services will do so, and we will do so on the sites that we want to treat with high sensitivity and where these vendors will therefore no longer have a place. Because we have now given that clarity in cyber security, operators are able to make choices, to make investment decisions quickly and to choose their suppliers. The limitations we impose are to a large extent about standardised equipment, which can sometimes cause a slight delay between the vendors, but the quality of the material is exactly the same. The delay it brings is negligible. However, the delay in the roll-out of 5G in our country is, unfortunately, on the table. This is due to the distribution of the proceeds from the auctions. After all, we want to introduce additional competition to bring down the high prices we see in our country today for telecoms. So I'm gonna call again for a quick round of the table to unblock that. The BIPT has also produced its study on this subject. We are now waiting for the input of the regions and as soon as they are there, I hope that we will be able to make very rapid progress in organising the auction. The contours of our 5G network are now fixed, so let us just move forward quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u52	Minister, it is clear that 5G was well guarded in our country. In the meantime, decisions have been taken and we are effectively imposing restrictions to improve safety. We are looking for it in Europe rather than elsewhere. I am also reassured that we will not undermine our negotiating position as a country by limiting too much the number of potential suppliers. There is still a wide selection from which our country can choose to get the best price for users.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u53	Minister, we already knew that 5G is not harmful to public health and can make a huge contribution to society and our economy. Now we also know that 5G will be safe in cyber security. In Wallonia and Brussels, however, 5G is opposed by several French-speaking parties who prefer to stay in the stone age. Here in Parliament, too, there are several initiatives taken by Ecolo's colleagues in this direction. We Flemings must not be allowed to take part in this, for we must not let our future and our prosperity be compromised by doomthinkers and people who follow all kinds of dangerous conspiracy theories. Hence my call. If the French speakers do not want to join in the story of 5G, so be it. However, Flanders must never suffer from this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u54	Mr President, Minister, there are 1.2 million seafarers in the world. A quarter of a million of them are stuck in ports or at sea. Crew changes are now particularly sensitive, complex, but often impossible. Sailors are the invisible hands of international trade, which ensure that our supply lines do not stop. We must not forget them. Local bans on sampling, local quarantine obligations, the availability of international flights make crew changes difficult in many countries. This often results in distressing conditions for crews who have to stay on board for longer and longer. Shipping companies can't solve that, governments can. There are clear protocols between ICS and ITF, between the employers' and employees' organisations, which lay down clear rules and procedures. In Belgian ports they are also applied consistently, but for 3,500 sailors on Belgian ships and dredging boats abroad, who do not visit the port of Antwerp, the situation can no longer be maintained. After all, governments are failing in many countries. Sailors deserve the status of critical worker and a thorough implementation of the international protocols. Minister, what efforts is Foreign Affairs making in this context? In particular, is there an active call on governments in other countries to give our seafarers the status of a critical worker and to apply the international protocols? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of repatriation concerns the problem of compatriots who are currently blocked in international waters. My services are in very regular consultation with the shipping companies and companies that have addressed us. In this way, my services in Brussels and at the appropriate embassies have already undertaken various démarches and solutions for crew rotation have been found in Taiwan, India, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Sri Lanka. My crisis centre also sees the problems of DEME in Nigeria. A démarche was made to the Nigerian authorities to obtain an exemption for the imposed quarantine. Solutions are also being sought for a number of similar problems in Latin America, including Colombia, Panama and Peru. Our embassies follow the problem very closely. Together with the shipping companies and the local authorities, they are trying to find a solution. Given the difficult health conditions on ships and the possible level of contamination, it remains difficult to make agreements with local authorities. For example, despite repeated pressure from several ports, ships are refusing to dock. That is not a purely Belgian problem. I am therefore in contact with the services of the European Union and other Member States to try to find a common solution. As far as the status of critical workers is concerned, it does not fall within the competence of my services to grant such a statute. On the protocols, as you yourself say, this is an issue between employers and employees, which does not fall within the competence of my services. However, I can inform you that Minister De Backer has taken the necessary measures to extend the contracts of seafarers on board Belgian ships under certain conditions. The relevant law was published in the Belgian Official Journal on Monday 22 June 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u56	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your explanation and for your efforts. I invite you to continue it, because sailors must not fall between shore and ship in this COOVID-19 crisis. We need to make sure that they can re-enlist and re-enlist. Together with the maritime world, we will closely monitor what is being done. I want to conclude with the well-worded words in The Economist: "Global trade's invisible hands must not be forgotten. When their work is done, they deserve to go home."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u57	Yesterday, the commander of the Air Force confirmed it to his personnel: after only five years of flying, four NH90 helicopters of Defense will be grounded. When the order was placed in 2007 by one of your notorious predecessors, the then purchase of the eight aircraft, namely the four successors of the Sea Kings and the four TTHs, the troops transport helicopters, already accounted for 292 million euros. So that's a big price tag. The TTHs are in the spotlight right now. The devices are performant, but also extremely maintenance intensive, expensive and with a complex weapon system. There are also problems with the spare parts. The necessary upgrades are also particularly expensive. Despite the continued deployment of our military personnel, the number of flight hours will be reduced from 1,000 to 600 per year. For example, the expensive maintenance can be postponed. In this way a number of years could still be flown, but so far no one confirms until exactly when this would be. Of course, that's not news. At the end of last year, a report by the Court of Auditors already produced firewood from the helicopters concerned. How long will the TTHs stay in the air? Is that indeed for the period 2020-2024, as is claimed in the corridors? What replacement plans are currently on the table? What are the prospects for the staff currently working in Bevekom? That's not unimportant. What impact does the decision have on the operationality of the departments concerned and any other departments?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u58	Minister, Belgium has no luck with its helicopters. In the 1990s, after the Agustas scandal, some skilled people had to leave. I say that very kindly. Today, part of our helicopters are on the ground, not by the enemy, not by IS, not by Daesh, but by ourselves. The helicopters, which cost EUR 300 million in beautiful Dutch helicopters, are only usable at 30%. I'm not throwing a stone at Defense, Mr. Secretary. I know they were used in good faith. But I have some questions. Why do the same NH90s fly in the Netherlands, Finland, Norway, Spain, France, Germany, Greece, Italy and not so easily in Belgium? What's different in all these countries than here? Is industrial support from suppliers different in those countries than from ours? How heavy does the personnel shortage weigh with the Defense Department, and specifically for the flawed profession of mechanic? Why were those helicopters ever ordered? Part of it served to replace the Sea Kings and the purchase was then understandable. But what about the rest? Here and there we hear that this was a "transfer." Why exactly did it happen? Can you guarantee that the four grey helicopters doing coastal rescue operations will continue to do their job? Will you sell the other four helicopters to countries that seem to be more useful? Again, I'm not throwing a stone at Defense, but the issue is worth asking. I'd like to get some explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was informed by the staff about the NH90 and in particular the version TTH or Troop Transport Helicopter. First of all, I want to make it clear that the four TTHs are not grounded and that nothing changes for the version in use in the Navy and for the search and rescue. The maintenance of the helicopters is very labour intensive and the costs for maintenance and upgrade of the helicopters are also very high. Due to the long maintenance cycles and the regular lack of spare parts, the availability of the devices is also low. As a result, the staff decided to reduce the flight plan. That decision should not only be seen as the decision of a good family father, but also, and above all, as a decision that takes into account flight safety. If the workload for the technicians becomes too high, the risk of errors becomes too high and this must be avoided. The reduction in the number of flight hours will allow the maintenance to spread over a large period of time and thus also relieve the pressure on staff. I have instructed the staff to investigate all possible slopes in order to continue to support the Land Component and the Medical Component with the necessary helicopters. These must be worked out against when there is a government with full power so that it can take the appropriate decision with knowledge of the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which was not complete. You say the helicopters haven't been grounded yet. Of course. "Not yet" are the key words. You also did not answer the question of when it will happen. There are rumors about all kinds of slopes in this area. The future track, the cooperation with the Land Component and the Medical Component, also needs further research. I would like to tell you that it is very important for the defence sector to be able to work properly in today's rapidly evolving geopolitical situation. For years there has been a dislocated triangle of resources, assignments and personnel in the Defense Department. Everything stands or falls, especially in the Defense Department, with a performance purchasing policy. In this country this practice is symptomatic: we need A, but A is too expensive, then we buy B and afterwards we see, après nous le déluge. It cannot be the intention to go back on the old road that we had just left. A new disappointment is a fact. Defence and the Air Force, especially the personnel, deserve better.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I think that the two authors did not question the decision in itself, given the circumstances. Rather, the question was how it is possible that these circumstances were created. We have referred to the budget, to the staff, to the bottleneck professions. It is clear that the measure is not good, not even for the Defense Department. We therefore note with a certain melancholy and sadness that it is the way in which the Defense Department gets into the news. Let us, together with all parties of good will, look at how we can re-raise the defense, so that it does not happen again. Although the decision is rational, given the situation, it originates from a lack of budget and qualified staff, and those circumstances are reprehensible. There's a lot of reasons. I believe that Parliament's responsibility also plays a part in this. After all, the budget is allocated here. I think that we should look at this with all the good parties and make a decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u62	That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u63	Mr President, I would like to ask you for the draft law on the opening of provisional appropriations (No. 1300) sent back to the Finance Commission today. We know that the budget needs to be approved today. Hence the question of convening the Finance Committee now, so that the budget can be dealt with in plenary later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u64	You have heard Mrs Kitir's question. Her question concerns the provisional twelfths. Mrs Kitir asks that on this point, which is on the agenda of this plenary session, the Finance Committee be convened in our plenary session. There are precedents on this. Is everyone okay with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u65	Mr President, we also had an amendment on the same subject, the 400 Euro bonus for medical staff. We therefore also wish to be able to return to committee during the plenary so that, if there is an agreement, we should not wait a week to vote on the provisional twelfths.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u66	Mr President, the formula is correct, but we must stick to what will be voted on, or not, in committee. Indeed, the provisional credits cannot wait. I just wanted to call him back. Failure to vote on provisional appropriations on time and on time has terrible consequences for certain expenditure items. I wouldn't want to be responsible. So, I agree with the formula, but what is not voted on is not in plenary and what is voted on changes the provisional appropriations. That way, I agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u67	I note that there is a consensus, so the Finance Committee can start in the Damian Room within ten minutes. Have any further comments been made on the agenda for this plenary session?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u68	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Eliane Tillieux, Patrick Prévot, Hervé Rigot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u69	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Taquin, who refers to the written report. Since Mrs Depoorter and Mr Bertels have to go to the Finance Committee, they can take the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u70	Mr President, I shall be brief. We will fully support this bill. It is absolutely necessary that patients affected or suspected of being affected by COVID-19 do not receive sky-high invoices for, among other things, the urgent transport of sick people. The limitation of the invoice by making it free of charge for the urgent transport of sick people is fully supported by our group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will not support this proposal. Last week, I also referred to the fact that we were absolutely committed to protecting COOVID-19 patients in terms of pay supplements and non-refundable performance. Our group wants to ensure that the patient does not have to worry about the hospital bill that could fall on his bus. However, this bill concerns the transport of sick people. There is often competition between patients who have a private insurer who intervenes in the transport of sick and other patients. We believe that every patient should be given the best possible care. Every patient, whether he is being treated for COVID-19 or any other condition, which means that he has to go to hospital very regularly, for example people receiving chemotherapy or radiotherapy, has very high costs and needs a lot of care. We believe that every patient should be given the care and care he deserves. We also believe that the legislative proposal that we adopted last week is very much in line with the COOVID-19 patient and that this is therefore well aligned. So our group will not commit itself to this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall be brief because, as I have already pointed out, this text is in line with the draft law which we co-signed with Sp.a, and which was adopted in plenary last Thursday. The objective has not changed and is to provide the best protection for victims of coronavirus, as well as to cover the health costs to which they may be exposed. Last week, it was intended to prohibit the invoicing of fee supplements and non-reimbursable costs by health care insurance (such as certain medical or paramedical fees, hygiene products or other). Today, we complete the scheme by protecting the victims of the pandemic this time from the possible costs of urgent medical transport. In this respect, as my colleague has just pointed out, there is no question of creating discrimination between patients. However, an exceptional situation requires a similar response. For example, ambulances had to be adapted and equipped with personal protective equipment and decontamination products. The cost of transport has therefore inevitably increased considerably. For this reason, we wanted to clarify the legislation by explicitly stating in article 101 of the coordinated law of 10 July 2008 on hospitals that these costs could not be charged to victims of a pandemic or even a disaster. I would point out that, for my group, it goes without saying that these costs which cannot be charged to patients (given the retroactive effect of the provision) will have to be compensated through the budget of the hospitals' financial resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u73	Again and again, the situation in hospitals is extremely difficult. They will have to be supported more than ever before so that the crisis we are experiencing does not have any dramatic consequences and does not even further obviate their financial situation. These hospitals must be able to ensure the sustainability of hospital care and that such care is accessible, innovative and of high quality for all patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u74	Mr President, we have seen a lot of corona-related proposals come up in Parliament and many of them were also supported by the Flemish interest. However, we are getting the impression that it is not the patient's concern, but the concern to have as many stripes as possible next to his name or party or to put as many plumes on his hat as possible, and the Flemish interest is not part of that. The spirit of the present legislative proposal is that no additional costs should be charged to COVID-19 patients who have to rely on urgent medical transport. At first sight, we cannot oppose this, but what about patients without COOVID-19 who also urgently need medical transport? They will still be presented with the bill. Isn't that a form of discrimination, we wonder? In committee it was cited that corona patients cannot choose how they are transported. They're being taken to the hospital in corona-equipped ambulances. However, a person who is knocked down on the street and is seriously injured cannot choose how he is taken to the hospital, but he must pay the costs. For parties who are used to seeing the ghost of discrimination everywhere, I find it bizarre that this would suddenly not be discrimination, but we know by now that discrimination has a colored, subjective meaning for you. For the Flemish Interest, however, laws must apply to everyone and everyone must be equal before the law. This is not the case in the present bill. Since we are in favour of low-level and affordable medical care, we could vote in favour, but because we are against discrimination, we must vote against it. That is why we will abstain in the vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week we adopted a bill here that will ensure that patients cannot be charged any fee supplements and non-refundable performance if they have been hospitalized. Two important cases remain, therefore, at the expense of a patient who was hospitalised for corona, firstly, the brake charge on the hospital bill and secondly, the cost of the urgent transport of sick people. This proposal from the PS is in line with what was adopted last week and will ensure that the cost of urgent transport will no longer be invoiced to patients who were victims of a pandemic or disaster. This is important to us and we support it. You should know that since 1 January 2019 patients have to pay a lump sum of EUR 60 for urgent transport and that 4 out of 10 people in our country do not have hospitalisation insurance. It is a pity, however, that the PS has amended its bill, which still leaves the brake money for hospitalization at the expense of the patient. I would like to repeat that 17 000 patients have been admitted to hospital for a very long time. Some people spent weeks in the intensive care department, after which they received another rehabilitation. Despite the measures already taken, they can therefore expect a very well-equipped hospital bill. We fear that people will work in debt through these invoices. If they are unable to pay their invoices, then the hospitals will also be in difficulty. I therefore find it remarkable that parties such as Flemish Interest and N-VA do not support this bill. Apparently, they think patients should get the high bills for the transport of sick. It is therefore important that ordinary Flemish people know that these are antisocial parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u76	Mr President, the title of this text is positive, but it is a big problem. If it allows some patients not to pay the transportation bill, it clearly returns the bill to the other patients as there is no compensation funding mechanism for hospitals. The latter are now in a difficult situation, which has worsened further since the 2 billion that have been advanced can be recovered by the State. We add layers each time, without compensation. This amounts to referring the bill back to the other patients, on employment and on caregivers. The major problem of hospital financing needs to be addressed, compounded by the health crisis, as there have been additional costs and a collapse of revenues through the financial resources budget (BMF). I am surprised that the device does not provide for anything so that we can avoid postponing the bill to other patients. We will abstain for this reason and very clearly to launch a new call for special and urgent attention to hospitals, nursing staff and patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this proposal is simple. It is a matter of exempting patients from urgent transportation costs when they have been victims of a pandemic or disaster. In committee, this bill has been criticized, in particular because of its budgetary impact. That is why, by means of amendments, its scope has been narrowed. This may have been necessary even if, as we will never repeat enough, exceptional circumstances justify equally exceptional measures. Another argument was raised in committee and was recalled at the moment by one of my colleagues. Discrimination would appear between patients hospitalized as a result of VOCID-19 contamination and other patients. It is true that the entry into force is scheduled for 1 March 2020, and this argument is understandable, but it does not hold. Why? Because a difference in treatment can be justified in relation to an exceptional situation. The over-mortality associated with a pandemic or disaster is such a situation and therefore justifies support for this measure. I would also point out that a large number of people still do not have supplementary hospital insurance. Similarly, an increasing number of our citizens are still at risk of losing their jobs as a result of the economic crisis linked to VOCID-19. All of these people will find it very difficult to pay their bills. It will in a way be a double penalty for these patients and it must be avoided absolutely. That is why my group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u78	The list of speakers is closed, but you wanted to add something, Mrs. Tillieux, for a final reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u79	Mr President, as the author of this text, it seems to me important to be able to respond to what I heard earlier. One party announced that it intended to refrain from denouncing the lack of financial resources in hospitals. As I said earlier, it goes without saying that these means must be provided for, but it is not in this text that we are talking about. Then, by abstaining, this party – in this case, the cdH – pays the patient the extra transportation costs. This is totally unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u80	Mrs Tillieux, you have reinvigorated the debate. Mrs Fonck, would you like to speak for a personal fact, I assume?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u81	Mr President, it is more than a personal fact: it is a big mess. Excuse me, dear colleague, but do you know how we treat patients in the hospital? With caregivers. And that is only possible if we have a sufficient budget. You're not going to tell me you didn't know! You should have included in your text a mechanism that provided for this funding – because money does not fall from the sky and, in practice, someone still has to pay the bill. You say to the hospitals, "Wait for all the others who, themselves, have important bills." That's the reality, Mrs Tillieux, but we don't dare to say it! Thousands of people are obviously involved. However, hundreds of thousands of others suffer from different pathologies. And it's on their backs that we're working. If we had acted in order, we would have found a compensation to avoid putting the hot potato elsewhere. I'm sorry, but it wasn't done. The signal must be clear. We cannot agree to continue the work in this way. For later years, however, we are referring to working groups - none of which are aware that the funding gap has been further exacerbated. This is a real problem. That is why we will abstain. The justification seems correct to me. Let's find a solution so that bills are honoured for all patients, without sending them back from one to the other! Then we will have taken a positive step for all patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u82	That was the second reason for abstention. Mrs Tillieux, please be brief: we are not going to repeat the whole debate in the committee here. You won't agree anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u83	Mr President, I do not think we should allow certain things to be said. Of course, we want funding to match the needs in hospital terms. We have also tabled a text, which has not received the urgency in this Parliament, Mrs Fonck. That's the reality. I wish the truth was told. This text deals exclusively with urgent medical transport. You are using this text to spread your message about hospital funding. Yes, we need to reinvest in the hospital sector. No, you cannot use the text on urgent medical transportation by leaving patients with the additional costs that could be charged to them. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u84	The general discussion is now really closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u85	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1227/5) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1227/5) The title has been amended by the commission to "proposed legislation to ensure that the costs of urgent medical transport of patients affected by VOCID-19 are met". The title was changed by the committee to "legislative proposal to charge the cost of the urgent transport of the Covid-19 patients." The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u86	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u87	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 1298: Kattrin Jadin, Christophe Bombled, Hendrik Bogaert, Georges Dallemagne, Bram Delvaux, François De Smet, Peter Buysrogge - 1289: Peter Buysrogge, Kattrin Jadin, Christophe Bombled, Bram Delvaux, Theo Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u88	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1298/8) The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (1298/8) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u89	I refer to the written report, Mr President, and I hope you will do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u90	Absolutely, Mr De Vriendt. The chairman of the Committee on Defence, Mr Buysrogge, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u91	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Mr Flahaut and Mr De Vriendt. Because we only now have this discussion, reference can be made to the written report. Should we have discussed it last week or two weeks ago, a full oral explanation might have been necessary. Colleagues, I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to our soldiers who have been working from Jordan in recent years to defeat the IS Caliphate. Everyone thinks of the F-16 pilots in the first place. Their precision and craftsmanship are internationally celebrated and appreciated. No cowboys dropping loose bombs, but trained pilots performing reconnaissance orders, supporting soldiers on the ground and yes, who, after analysis of the Red Card Holder and in a strict framework of rules or engagement, drop precision bombs. Teleguided, no collateral damage, extremely precise on the hostile target. Colleagues, it is important not only to pay tribute to the pilots. We must not forget a few other people. The technicians, the support staff, the surveillance in the camp in Azraq, the cooperation with the Dutch. Thanks are in place here. Thanks to that collective commitment to an international coalition, we managed to defeat that caliphate animal. The caliphate, the ultimate dream of those unhumans, may have been wiped off the map, yet we have to ask ourselves whether IS is completely defeated. Isn't there a risk of reorganization? Isn't there a risk that certain cells may rehabilitate hatred, violence and terror, in the region, in the Middle East, but also in the case of enlargement in Europe? The analysis we received from the security experts behind closed doors was very enlightening. Yes, that risk is still very real. For the N-VA it is very clear: we must not let this happen again! We have to do everything we can to fight this. Now, in concrete terms. There is a demand from the coalition to be active again. This strong question proves that our soldiers are praised for their specialization, for their precision. It is also a confirmation that the replacement of this air combat capacity that was approved was a strategically very good choice. Unsuitable to the fight against terrorism, but not unimportant to give, is that this renewed commitment will also help us to strengthen our strategic position in the international coalition against IS, in the core group against IS. In the committee we have also discussed quite extensively a number of issues, for example the question in which theatre we can become active again with our F-16s. For the record, the question comes from the Iraqi Government. They feel the threat concretely on their territory and are asking for help, that is clear. Then there is also the question about Syria. The debates we had on this in 2016 all came back to me. It is clear that we must not give IS fighters the chance to strategically jump into the border zone between Iraq and Syria and hide in a sort of Syrian no-man's-land just across the border, which is neither controlled by the Syrian Government. Do we want to give them that strategic opportunity, which is to jump over the bushes? Once again, the answer to that question is quite clearly 'no' to us. We want to defeat them. We want to take this threat seriously in Iraq. So we must also be able to operate in that border area. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress two more points which are certainly important to our party in the resolution before us today. Firstly, the integrated approach is important. Resting in the region and in the Middle East and removing the breeding ground for terrorism are matters that cannot only be done by sending fighter planes. Diplomacy, humanitarian aid, international justice are several elements that are all part of the integrated approach. These various elements are all contained in the resolution before us today. Secondly, Parliament's involvement is also important. Constitutionally, the government decides. Minister, one may wonder whether the current government has full power. It is certainly in the interest of the mission, which is a very important task, that there is parliamentary legitimacy, regardless of whether or not there is a government with full power. By the way, in 2016, when there was a government with full authority and the question of whether we would also allow our F-16s to become active in Syria, Commission President Grosemans took the initiative to submit a resolution in order to give legitimacy to that mandate. In my capacity as chairman of the committee, it seemed to me that, in the absence of an initiative from the current government parties and also in consultation with the Minister, it would be useful to take such an initiative. Afterwards, there was another resolution. I must confess that this resolution has also become very valuable by means of amendments. For me, the proverb "if the cat catches mice" applies. The text contains strong elements to ensure parliamentary involvement in the adoption but also during the process. Colleagues, I'm finishing up. Unfortunately, we are not yet rid of IS and the potential terrorist threats. Everyone undoubtedly remembers the inhumane acts of terror, especially on our territory in Maalbeek and in Zaventem. That must never happen again. If we can avoid that by re-using F-16s in the Middle East, my group does not hesitate for a second.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall not repeat the long debate we held in committee on this motion for a resolution. A number of our counter-arguments were also discussed in detail. Is there a legally valid international mandate to operate over Syria? According to my group and a number of other groups, the answer to this is very clear: no, there is no such mandate. There is no such legal validity. Belgium is a member of the UN Security Council. It may not then be up to our country to go on legal quicksand and contribute to the instability that already characterizes the world today, especially in international law. We have had a wide debate on this in committee, and that was immediately a major obstacle for our group. A second set of arguments are opportunity arguments. The bombing and deployment of F-16s must not be made lightly. There's always a risk of civilian casualties. Yes, we want to stop the threat of ISIS, but can't we do it in a better way? In the past, we have seen that bombardments have often resulted in additional support for IS of the local population. Western intervention can also be counterproductive. That is not a question of propaganda, which is an objective and factual element that we should take into account when considering sending F-16s. Our group has also identified the possibility of alternatives. For example, we could step up our support for the Iraqi army. We could do a number of other things, including security and military. It was a good debate in committee. The text of the resolution was amended in great detail. Many amendments were adopted in committee. I wanted to intervene in particular because I wanted to point out a text which is much less unbalanced than before the discussion in committee. We have succeeded in adding issues in humanitarian and political diplomacy with a number of groups. Let me give you some examples. It seemed important to us to point out that Belgium is in the UN Security Council as a penholder for the humanitarian aspects of the conflict in Syria and the problem of children in conflict zone. This obliges us to keep a close eye on the humanitarian aspect of what we are doing in Iraq and Syria and to think carefully about the effects of everything that is being done in Iraq and Syria on the humanitarian front. Trying to contribute to a de-escalation between Iran and the United States is also essential. The diplomatic relations between Iraq and Iran have changed over the last few years. It is very important that we work for a de-escalation between Iran and the United States if we act somewhere. At our initiative, we have also been able to introduce a general provision. It calls on the federal government to participate in international, diplomatic, financial, economic and humanitarian initiatives. To work out a sustainable solution for the crisis in Syria and Iraq, this is a basic provision. More precisely, the government is asked to work proactively within the Security Council to extend the mandate for cross-border humanitarian access through the border crossings of al Yarubiyah in the northeast of Syria and Bab al-Salam and Bab al-Hawa in the northwest of Syria. There is certainly also a call for an additional financial contribution. We have tabled this amendment and it has also achieved a majority in committee. If the resolution is adopted, the demand for an additional financial contribution, in addition to the funds already announced for 2020 on humanitarian aid, will clearly lie with the government. An important amendment adopted by us is a precedent. The government will have to communicate much more about possible civilian casualties, perhaps unlike in the past. That was always almost a black hole in Belgian policy. Other countries are very transparent about this. For example, the Netherlands is an example. In the past, there have been discussions as to whether or not civilian casualties have been caused by Belgian military intervention. We have never been able to establish with certainty that this is the case, thank goodness. The Belgian F-16 pilots are also very careful. The procedures used are very cautious. As Mr Buysrogge just said, we are not American cowboys. We have heard stories about how other countries sometimes deal with bombing and military deployment. Belgium does not participate in this. We're stricter, and that's how it's supposed to be. Nevertheless, if there's any discussion about possible civilian casualties...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u93	Sorry to interrupt, Mr De Vriendt. I didn't talk about American cowboys just now. I talked about cowboys. I'd like to use that as a nuance. There's a difference. I agree with you that amendment has improved the text. There was another motion for a resolution, which already contained many valuable elements which have been re-incorporated. It is true that the text has gotten better, but it is a pity that you are still taking a negative view of the final version that is before you today. As far as the legal basis is concerned, and your core argument why you will not support the resolution, I would like to point out that the defence has given the argument that the UN Charter on the right to self-defense is being invoked here by Iraq. Precisely the hare-over-play of the ISs in that border area, which is also not under the control of the Syrian government, is invoked. Exactly that is a sufficiently strong legal basis that is being used here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u94	Mr Buysrogge, if you weren't talking about American cowboys, I'm very curious what country you're in. I'm very curious. I think that could be a good debate. On the legal aspect, Mr Buysrogge, once again, the debate was held in committee. The 2004 Opinion of the International Court of Justice clearly states that the use of Article 51 cannot be invoked against non-state actors. A number of other arguments are given. In short, there is a major legal problem. We do not therefore believe that our country should continue to contribute to this legal improvisation. The UN Security Council is, of course, a body that does not function optimally, but the question is then whether our country needs to do something about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u95	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the departure on a mission abroad for our army, whether within the UN, the European Union, NATO or an international coalition, is in no way an anomalous decision. Like all the operations in which our country has been called upon to participate in recent years, I would like to point out that transparency with regard to such a decision is essential. If, of course, it is a matter of ensuring the safety of women and men deployed by the Defence and whose great expertise is known, it is also up to us to ensure as much publicity as possible for such debates. This debate and parliamentary work that we have been conducting for several weeks in the Committee on National Defence and the Monitoring of Missions Abroad has enabled us to take stock of this complex issue: what should be the Belgian operational commitment in the context of Operation Inherent Resolve? At the outset, I would like to stress the quality of the parliamentary work and of all the groups that participated in this discussion, with sometimes very divergent opinions. I would also like to underline the Minister's commitment to genuine and convinced transparency. Minister, I thank you and the Defence Staff, who, together with you, contributed to the quality of the debates in committee. However, we would like to go further on this issue and in the exercise of transparency. In a global way, the Socialist Party wants the involvement and not just the information of Parliament during Belgian military operations abroad. In the long run, we wish to review Article 167 of the Constitution in order to establish better parliamentary control over Belgian operations abroad and, above all, to make it systematic. For us, any intervention by Belgian military forces outside the national territory must be subject to prior parliamentary approval. The aim is to define a precise framework, that of an operation, for example, in terms of duration, nature, size or geographical scope. Parliamentary information must be guaranteed during operations to ensure that this framework as defined by the House is respected. An ex post evaluation is also required. A parliamentary democracy cannot really stalemate a full debate before, during and after a military intervention. Pending such a substantive change, we wish to ensure greater transparency of Belgian military missions abroad vis-à-vis the general public. This type of public exchange of views within the House and the resulting resolution of the MR Group play a major role in achieving this objective. Just for that, I would like to thank the authors, the minister and the Defence Staff. At such a request from the House, the reading grid of the Socialist Group is always the same. It is imperative to include all Belgian military interventions strictly in a UN framework and in a comprehensive approach combining development and diplomacy. This is of course what we have done on the question raised by the MR text which is on our bench today and, more specifically, its first request. Although important work of amendment has been carried out in committee, this first request from the House to the government is still and still unfortunately written as follows: "In the context of the fight against Daesh, to continue its operational commitment in the framework of Operation Inherent Resolve over Iraq and north-eastern Syria, with a deployment from the beginning of October 2020 for a period of one year (October 1, 2020 to September 30, 2021)." The amendments in committee aimed at deleting the word Syria were all rejected. This first request therefore justifies the vote – it will not be a surprise, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen – from my group on the whole text. Like our positions in the same Chamber in 2014, we remain consistent with our past positions. But today it is not this question that is being asked. In substance, I would like to reiterate once again that the Socialist Group believes that all means should be used in the fight against terrorism and against Daesh, including at the military level, where this is the last resort. If the use of force is still a failure for diplomacy, we are faced with terrorists who kill in the name of religious radicalism, mad, ready to strike everywhere and everyone. Staying your arms crossed is therefore not an option. Belgium must continue to play its role in European and international solidarity in the fight against terrorism and against Daesh, while ensuring genuine regional involvement in this strategy. This cannot be denied; Belgian participation in international efforts has made it possible to weaken the jihadists. It's obvious. However, and I would like to join my colleague Wouter De Vriendt, if faced with such a group, whose regional and international danger unfortunately persists despite international action, it is not time for inaction, but international Belgian military action cannot take place in the denial of international law. Belgium is a rule of law and must remain so. Therefore, we cannot support intervention in Syria. For us, such an intervention cannot be made outside of a completely explicit UN framework, which has so far been absent for the entire Syrian territory, contrary to what prevails in Iraq. For my group, in the absence of a clear UN framework for Syria as a whole, it is totally unimaginable to negotiate such strikes in Syria with the murderous regime of al-Assad, whose impunity cannot be negotiated. As you know, Minister, we talked about this in committee during the debate on Operation Inherent Resolve. I asked you more specific questions in a broader parliamentary debate. You told me that, indeed, it was non-negotiable. I think we need to be consistent. It cannot be said that impunity is non-negotiable, and at the same time, in the context of bombing operations that could, which should be targeted, perhaps begin to think that negotiation with such a regime should be possible, at some point, for pragmatic-pragmatic reasons. For us, this is totally unsustainable, both morally and politically. Various international reports have demonstrated, on many occasions, and most recently, if need be, the horror of the abuses committed by the Assad regime, both by the use of chemical weapons – we will come back to it when we talk about Idlib – and by strikes on schools and hospitals, for example. We have had very long debates in committee on this UN mandate and the geographical framework of the forthcoming Belgian intervention. Indeed, the legal basis for intervention in Syria is more than banal. It is based not on a request by a Syrian authority or an international mandate, but on an interpretation of Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations, which enshrines the right to self-defence, invoked here because the Syrian authorities, supported by Russia, do not control a part of the territory where Daesh is still active. At the end of these very long debates and of the legal and geopolitical arguments, put forward by the Socialist Party and many other colleagues, I have unfortunately to stress that I have really remained on my hunger. Minister, I have said so far a lot of good about you, and I continue to think so, but you have disappointed me a little in your answer on the legal framework. Indeed, you have contented yourself with an extremely brief reply. I do not invent, I quote: "I see that Iraq's request for assistance is unanimous. With regard to possible intervention over Syrian territory, the Belgian Government considers that, in the present circumstances, collective self-defence does well justify action against a third country." We haven't heard one more word from you. For us, however, this "estimate" is not a sufficient argument and is not supported by a concrete legal basis. Although in committee the staff wanted to be reassuring by indicating that the zone of intervention would be Iraq, with a possibility of intervention in Syria, we must not forget the evolution of the regional and international context since the previous debate of the same kind in 2016, with in particular the arrival of Donald Trump at the White House. In this regard, I very much hope that next November the Americans will exercise their democratic right and will no longer make the same choice as four years ago (even if the majority of voters had not voted for Donald Trump). Anyway, it is not our intention to interfere in the political affairs of a friendly country – and who else does. Since then, we must all see the evolution of the international context. For all the brutes of international politics, multilateralism is no longer high. Today, it is on Twitter that major geopolitical decisions and devastating consequences are taken – often at a glance. This is a major source of uncertainty, which should encourage us to be more cautious. This worrying development requires a serious assessment. Belgium cannot enter into this dangerous game and must continue to act decisively to defend international law, human rights and, of course, multilateralism. It is also up to us to learn from the Bush era. Indeed, to solve complex situations, bombardment is not enough. No military intervention alone can put an end to radicalism and fanaticism in a lasting way. My group was very interested in the fact that the resolution being debated today drew the above-mentioned lessons. I am therefore pleased to see that several amendments have been adopted in this direction by French-speaking and Dutch-speaking socialists. These amendments clearly underline the importance of transparency of operations, of international justice in order to condemn the abuses committed against civilians by Daesh, the Syrian regime and armed groups, or to ensure that all actions undertaken by our country are carried out in accordance with international humanitarian law and human rights. The amendments adopted remind us that our country's action cannot be exclusively military. The intellectual honesty and elegance, which must also prevail in politics, make me repeat here before this House that, while I have spoken of the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking socialist amendments, it is nevertheless true that many amendments along the same lines had been tabled by the MR Group. The latter, by fair play, and because of the anteriority of the legislative acts imposed by the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking socialist groups, agreed to withdraw them. I find that one always grows when one recognizes perhaps not the opponent, but in any case the person who thinks in a way contrary to you, the positive actions that she has carried out. It seems to me appropriate to say that intellectual honesty and elegance in the action of the parliamentarian must be inscribed on our tablets. At the internal political level of Iraq, all efforts by the international community must be pursued, so that the Iraqi government is as inclusive as possible, beyond its communities. It must be able to restore its authority throughout its territory in a sustainable manner. Our approaches must more than ever be part of a comprehensive approach, or in what we call the 3D approach, three dimensions: defence, diplomacy and development. We must also – this is the meaning of the new demand 13 – be part of any initiative to help the populations affected by these abuses, on the humanitarian level, in Iraq, Syria and, of course, in neighbouring countries, which are hosting the largest number of refugees fleeing barbarism. Diplomacy and development, ladies and gentlemen, will be the only answers in the medium and long term. For it is indeed chaos that extremists feed themselves to commit and justify the worst abuses and sow death. Through its non-permanent seat on the Security Council, Belgium must therefore continue to act and never cease to do so. It must do its utmost to ensure that a diplomatic solution is found on the ground, that lasting peace is achieved and that international justice can do its job in that region. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, almost exactly a year ago, on 23 May, Belgium was officially asked to re-raise the fight against Daesh. It also explicitly asked for F-16s to be re-used in the Operation Inherent Resolve, given the continued need for air combat and reconnaissance equipment in the fight against Daesh and for the protection of ground troops. Looking back on recent history, we can see that Islam terror has settled deep within our borders over the last few decades. Unfortunately, attacks demanded by jihad fighters, who have been working through violence for the establishment of an Islamic state, have become a permanent part of our lives in recent years. For example, the attacks of 22 March 2016 in Brussels and Zaventem are engraved in our memory, yet another in a series of bloody attacks claimed by IS, of which we are still bearing the consequences today. According to our group, it is our duty to protect and safeguard our identity and our security. Internal security, as we often see, is directly linked to the external and geopolitical situation. We do not believe that we should go under, but we should fight the legitimate fight against Islam terror, both at home and abroad. The participation of our Defence in the Operation Inherent Resolve implies some concrete tasks, including the protection of our coalition forces, reconnaissance orders and targeted attacks against Daesh if necessary. In committee, we have already said that participation can count on our support, especially for the following reasons. The first, also the most important reason, is the fight against ISIS. The situation on the ground confirms that this struggle is far from being fought. The pressure on Daesh is necessary and must remain high in order to prevent a flare-up. The second reason, ideologically perhaps less important, but important to our defense, is the operational experience of our defence personnel. The third reason is that our commitment is also strongly inspired by the fact that our country has been part of the military core group since 2017. That membership is under pressure, but a loss can absolutely be avoided because of the output that these fora bring to our country. By participating, the chance of maintaining that important position increases and our position as a reliable partner in the alliance is safeguarded. We recognise the importance of this. Our support does not mean that we have no criticism or reservations about the actual commitment. We have said this on several occasions in committee, and for the sake of completeness, I also give the argument here. There have been a number of general reservations, also raised by colleagues. The ultimate goal may be the total destruction of Daesh, but we think that is largely a utopia. For example, the peace movement, not immediately a supporter of our party, speaks the truth when it says that a fanatical ideology is not eliminated with bombs or bullets. She's not entirely wrong about that. We hope that this participation will enable us to continue a movement that we started in 2014 and continued in 2016, namely the military, social and political offensive against radical Islam and its terrorist followers. As I said, the offensive must also continue on its own territory. Missions like this will be undermined if we allow Islam to continue to usurp in our own country and take jihadists out of jail and, as it were, let them thrive as heroes in our society. If the eradication of IS is really the ultimate goal, then the necessary resources must be made available, especially in the interior, and then much else is needed than the rather symbolic military effort. The legal basis, according to some people, has already been mentioned here, and I shall not repeat it. In any case, my group is making the point that the proposal does not mention the exit strategy. We have tabled an amendment to this effect, and we will put it to the vote again today. It is surprising, as far as we are concerned, that the amendment was voted down by almost all parties, while an exit strategy is a crucial element of military deployment in an operation like this. The US has reduced its military presence in Syria and has also re-exploded in Iraq. Because of this, support on the ground decreased, NATO decided in February to increase its commitment under the OIR. Belgium therefore also subscribes to this commitment strategy, but we must also dare to look ahead. What happens if the US decides to reduce their military presence further, according to a number of sources, that is not an option to be ruled out, or if the situation in Iraq escalates further? The coalition forces, including Belgium, could then face a major problem. At this point, political action will have to be rapid and decisive. If action is to be taken on the ground, as is the case at present, there must be an answer to the questions in what circumstances and how our country will organise the withdrawal, the criteria under which this will be done, the threshold to be applied, by decision-making process and on what criteria. The lack of an exit strategy can cost a great deal, both financially and in terms of military equipment. That is why we are putting our amendment to the vote again today. The flow of information of tactical intelligence on the ground, including through the withdrawal of US troops, will be much smaller and less reliable, as well as the fact that IS fighters blend with the local population and are therefore more difficult to detect and identify, make the work of the Red Card Holder difficult. If our government believes that our F-16s really need to have added value in the fight against IS, then we believe that it should be stipulated as a prerequisite that the Red Card Holder should have access to all information that allows adequate execution of bow emissions. Only then can our Red Card Holder work in absolutely optimal conditions. Those were a number of critical concerns. We also consider the following additional points of interest in the whole process, which have also been addressed in the preparatory work. Our country must be able to follow its own rules of engagement and the Red Card Holder must therefore be able to approve or reject any movement. The principle when there is double, there is no double, is a healthy starting point and we fully support it. The security of our military must be at the forefront at all times and the risk of collateral damage must of course be reduced to zero, or almost zero. In the past, therefore, we have always strongly advocated strict rules of engagement. It must be said that the explanatory statement in the follow-up committee has largely reassured us in this respect. Finally, our group is always in favour of transparent reporting and a clear, periodic evaluation, so that our parliamentary control can play its full part. It may be said, Minister, that you have a thank you to make that process work to the full. It is very important that parliamentary control has always been able to play a role so far. After all, adjustment where possible must always be negotiable. We have seen this in the preparatory work in committee. The method that is now being followed is very different from the method that we have seen in the past. We fully appreciate and appreciate the way in which this has been done, because this will allow parliamentary control to play its full role. Considering all this, the Flemish interest will fully support the efforts in Iraq.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u97	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution I tabled in committee a few weeks ago came from the desire to extend the Inherent Resolve mission. In 2014, this coalition was formed to combat terrorism and the Islamic State organization. This organization proclaimed the creation of a caliphate in the territories it occupied in Syria and Iraq. She committed the most atrocious crimes against humanity and persecuted and massacred religious minorities. During the previous legislature, we had the pleasure of welcoming Nadia Murad, the Yezidi victim of Daesh, who told us of his testimony. Daech also persecutes the LGBT community or anyone it considers unclean. The Caliphate brought terror to the territory on horseback between Syria and Iraq for more than five years. In Syria, the number of victims of the Islamic State is nearly 360,000. In Iraq, it has been a hundred thousand deaths, not to mention the refugees, who often occupy our work in this Parliament. Moreover, it should not be forgotten that the Islamic State is guilty of having carried out a significant number of terrorist attacks around the world. Our country did not escape, on 22 March 2016, with 32 victims: 32 of our fellow citizens lost their lives and 340 others were injured during the attacks in Brussels. The caliphate was destroyed in 2019 thanks to the courage and determination of Iraqi, Kurdish and Syrian fighters, but also thanks to the international coalition that supported them. Despite the efforts of the coalition and our allies on the ground, we must now see that the Islamic State organization is not being destroyed. At the end of January 2020, the last United Nations Security Council in a report on the armed group Islamic State and Al-Qaeda stated, inter alia, that: "The Islamic State, after the loss of its territory, began to reaffirm its presence in the Syrian Arab Republic and Iraq, instigating more and more bold attacks by the insurgents, organizing the escape of Islamic State fighters from detention centres and exploiting the weaknesses of the security conditions of these two countries." Having lost territories, the Islamic State remains a threat. He reorganized himself into a guerrilla. The minister told us about this when we asked him a question. We're talking about several new homes. The Islamic State, Daesh, can sometimes include more than 7,000 fighters. This must alert us and worry us or, in any case, make us take the many actions we deem useful to combat them. It is in this context that the international coalition has asked our country to continue its commitment to Operation Inherent Resolve. Member since its conception in 2014, Belgium has repeatedly demonstrated its abilities and the professionalism of its drivers. Let us not be naive, ladies and gentlemen! The fight must continue and it must be conducted where the Islamic State is active in the region. This barbaric organization must not find refuge in our complacency. Enough people have been victims of the Islamic State and today we must continue our efforts to prevent the resurgence of this bloodthirsty group. To support this motion for a resolution is also to support the fight against the Islamic State. I appeal to each of you. Ask yourself if we should show indulgence in this criminal organization or fight it where it is. We have had a lot of exchanges in committee on this. I know the argument of the international mandate that should be given, particularly with regard to possible operations in Syria. This international mandate should be an integral part of a United Nations Security Council resolution. However, it is lacking. Building on Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations, as we do for the continuation of this intervention, does not seem sufficient for some of my colleagues. I can hear the argument. Legalist, I can hear it, but I also realize the geopolitical realities that we are facing now. It is true, reality has changed and there are multiple actors on the ground. The role of Turkey in northern Syria is well known. Turkey is a partner of NATO, like us. The role of Russia, which is fighting Bashar al-Assad and which is also part of the National Security Council, is well known. For such an intervention, Russia would make it very difficult to adopt a resolution. International politics is not an obvious thing, minister. You won't disapprove of it. It's a reality. Many leaders around the world are questionable and challenged. I heard Mr. Lacroix talking about Donald Trump, but we could also mention Erdogan, Bashar al-Assad, etc. For this reason, the approach should not be differentiated from one region to another according to the operation that one would like to conduct. I would like to thank you for your elegance – and I know that you are an elegant man, honourable Member, since you have congratulated us on trying to incorporate as many amendments as possible into our motion for a resolution. Indeed, we have found them very useful. As we have supported them, we have chosen to take this into account both in the evaluation of Operation Inherent Resolve in the coming months and through Belgian humanitarian and diplomacy. I would remind you that this has always been the driving force, under the previous legislature and now with our Foreign Minister, to contribute to the stabilisation of the regions and to the need for a speedy revival of democracy on the spot. It is, of course, from this perspective that we have followed your constructive proposals, colleagues of the Socialist Party and of Ecolo. I would therefore like to thank you for this contribution, which will further improve this text. I would also like to tell you that, if we have done so, it is obviously in the hope of obtaining much broader support than the cleavage that we have achieved and that I do not call for my wishes, certainly not in terms of international relations. Unfortunately, this is not a precedent, since I could still cite other examples. I therefore hope – as Belgium has always known in these matters – that we can find a certain, useful and effective consensus in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u98	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is much better to use our resources now and keep Daesh short than to wait until it has rebuilt territory. It is militaryly cheaper and, above all, it is humanitarianly better. That is why we support the Belgian Defence interventions through the F-16s. Why is it so important that Islamic State does not develop territory? The name itself says it: Islamic State. They want a state. What can one do with a state? What's the advantage of that? Money, prestige and attraction. It is just that attraction that may also play with Belgian, Flemish Syrian fighters. Belgium had the highest number of foreign terrorist fighters per capita across Europe. In total, it was about at least 498 people. Very often those parents, grandparents, brothers and sisters had who couldn't believe that their family member was there. We have to protect those families. We must now ensure that there are no families again who come close to despair when they have to hear that their son or daughter has left. We must protect our country, even from the moral questions that arise when the battle will be fought again. Do we bring them back? Are we gonna bring their kids back? Those who do not want to go down that low again will know how to vote later, ladies and gentlemen. The best way to avoid discussion about whether they can come back is to avoid new movers. Suppose no one responds and IS rebuilds an empire. Then we have to react anyway. Then perhaps it will be an easier debate than today and perhaps it will be easy to gather the necessary votes. But the actual assignment becomes much more difficult. Then the military will be much harder. Then it'll cost more military. Then it will also be more difficult and costly on a humanitarian level. The balance between intervening now and the inevitable, namely to intervene later, has therefore been quickly made, especially since we have been too late once. The interventions in Iraq and North-East Syria could, according to some of our esteemed colleagues, lead to an unsafe situation in Belgium. The reasoning that is being put forward is that if we do what is necessary there will be attacks here. Have the Flemings ever been blackmailed in their history in such a way? Didn't our ancestors go to the Golden Trajectory in Kortrijk for fear of reprisals in Ghent or Ostend? No, we went and we won. Didn't our ancestors go to the trenches in Ypres for fear of problems in Ghent or Leuven? No, we went and we won. Didn't we go last time because we were afraid of attacks? Have the attacks on the Brussels metro and the airport in Zaventem changed our opinion on this? No. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that one cannot react too soon to the Islamic State. They're brainwashed, they're brainwashing themselves and they want to come back. They think that in the afterlife they will be rewarded for fighting people with a different faith here on earth. It is not easy for us to make a better offer to someone who literally believes he will be rewarded in the after life. One cannot control it, one cannot verify it later and no rational element counts. One thing is certain: the humanitarian damage caused by sects such as jihadism is incredibly enormous. There's no alternative. Colleagues, doing nothing on previous missions would have meant that cities of art such as Palmira would not have been liberated and that the small churches and cemeteries of Christian groups would have been further destroyed. Don't let us give in to the barbarism, we never did. This has always taken courage and hence my appeal to those Members who have put forward humanitarian arguments in good faith in order not to be deceived. Colleagues, think of Palmyra, think of the local population and the horror that has taken place among minorities. Never again, in some circumstances, the most humanitarian action is a military action. That is clearly the case here. CD&V therefore supports this resolution, as our party also supports our military and their families, whom we wish best.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, fighting war costs lives and money. Western interventions in the past cost many lives but also a lot of money. Afghanistan, Libya, Iraq and Syria in 2014. The war in Libya cost Belgium 40 million euros. Intervention in Afghanistan cost us EUR 100 million. It is estimated that the bombing of the international coalition against the Islamic State resulted in between 8,000 and 13,000 civilian casualties. In Afghanistan, war has been raging for years. Libya is a bankrupt state, dominated by terrorist militias where different factions fighting for power or slave trade are today a reality. Syria and Iraq have been wiped out. Millions of people have had to flee and some have come to Europe in search of a better life. No one forgets the March 22 attacks. It was a terrorist act, an act of cowardice, an attack on our society. But let us not forget what makes this extremism grow. Countries such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the Arab Emirates are well-known sponsors of these terrorist groups. And yet we trade with them, we sell them weapons and they are considered allies. Rather than tackling these flows of money, our country is opting for military intervention. In addition, our overseas operations are putting more oil on fire. The destabilization of the Middle East led to the expansion of terrorist militias. Finally, we must also address the timing of this proposal to now bomb foreign territories. War is not the only thing that costs us a lot of money and lives. The global coronavirus pandemic too. Nearly 10,000 people lost their lives in Belgium as a result of this virus. The queues have grown in food banks. Applications for assistance from CPAS have increased. Many people have lost some or all of their income. Companies are at risk of bankruptcy and massive dismissal. We are moving towards a more serious economic crisis than in the 1930s.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u100	In this context, deciding to wage an umpteenth costly war is extremely cynical. This military adventure will cost us 20 million euros. With 20 million euros, for example, we can hire 645 nurses for our hospitals. At the moment, we have other priorities to address: a health priority, with an underprivileged health care sector that requires more resources, as the health care staff has clearly made clear by turning their backs on the Prime Minister; a social priority because, if today, thousands of workers are running our country, many have lost part of their incomes or have lost all of them, which will increase our country's poverty. This resolution will probably be adopted with the support of Vlaams Belang. You are the first to speak out against refugees. Migrants are always your target and an argument to raise people against each other. But when it comes to acting and voting for wars and bombings, you are in favour. This was the case with the interventions in Libya, Iraq and Syria, and this is again the case today. On the one hand, you are against refugees and, on the other hand, you support the wars that make people flee and bring them to our country. It's hypocritical! I would also like to address the other democratic parties that will vote...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u101	Mr President, I would like to take the floor for a break.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u102	No problem. You have the floor for a break, Mr Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u103	Mr Boukili, you say that it is incredibly hypocritical to talk about refugee flows when one is at war. That's a discourse I hear. I respect pacifism: it may be a view that one does not want foreign interventions. What I find particularly hypocritical, however, is pretending that the refugee flows that arrived in 2015-2016 I, as the competent State Secretary, have been working on this because of the intervention of the West in Iraq and Syria. You're turning things around. The flows of refugees have been triggered by IS, by the rise and shine of IS (Islamic State) who has treated people in a horrible, degrading manner. Everyone remembers that footage. That's what got these people on the run. You're turning things around. Then we intervened and defeated ISIS. Now people are returning to Syria and Iraq. Last week there was a communication that ten thousand people returned from Germany. We have put a question to Minister De Block about what is right in Belgium, because these are very interesting figures. To say that these people have fled to Europe by the bombings of the Western coalition is, therefore, history forgery. I do not have another word for that, but your group is of course well-known for that. You are in principle opposed to military intervention. My question to you is this. What would you have done then against Islamic State, which then became stronger and stronger and is now getting stronger and stronger and has committed attacks here, which had a very clear foreign agenda for attacking Europe? What would the PVDA-PTB Group do against IS? Always saying that they are not participating, I find myself rather hypocritical. You say that we are against refugees, but that we want to start wars, which means that these refugees are here. You are really committing violence to the truth, especially in the Syrian conflict with the largest flow of refugees since the Second World War. A second thought. You say you have a problem with arms sales to Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and other regimes supporting international terrorism. You certainly have a point to make here. Who, however, supports FN Herstal's FGTB? Who was infiltrated in the FGTB of FN Herstal? That's your party! It's you. That's so weird to me. I've said that here before. At that time, I noticed that the Walloon Government announced a change of course on arms sales to Saudi Arabia after my speech. Mr Di Rupo then said, under pressure from my speech and from Ecolo, that they would no longer sell to Saudi Arabia. But still to the king's guard, who is clearly still militaryly supported by FN Herstal. There are still weapons deliveries by FN Herstal. What I find hypocritical is that when people talk about arms sales and start wars, you just turn things around and abuse the truth. The Walloon government is the sole shareholder of FN Herstal. We are not starting an international coalition against ISIS for our pleasure. It was necessary to protect the people. People are now beginning to return, thanks to the fact that we have been able to stabilise the situation there. The Syrian and Iraqi states are too weak to do it themselves. Just like Afghanistan. This is simply necessary to stabilise the situation and to protect the indigenous population. That's the truth. You shouldn't turn things around.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u104	Mr President, I will still respond to a few points. I'll start with the end. Dear colleague, you say that the states, Iraqi and Syrian, were weak to face the Islamic State. It's true, but who weakened them? The intervention of the United States in 2003 weakened the Iraqi state, which was previously solid. The president of the Arab League warned the Americans at the time that if they intervened in Iraq, they would open the gates of hell. That's exactly what happened. We opened the gates of hell. You're talking about refugees and you're saying it's linked to the Islamic State and not interventions. Let us go back to history: it was because of the interventions that destroyed the region and weakened those governments that this situation was reached. I look at the facts and the chronology. We fought in Libya in 2011. Since 2011, migratory flows in the Mediterranean have exploded. There were large waves of migrants in Europe in 2015 and 2016. The bombings in Libya and Iraq were voted in 2014. I look at the facts chronologically: there is a causal link between our interventions and our attitude towards the region, and the results that it gives today. You say: what have we done? You don't want to understand! But anyway, I don't want what you're doing. Tell me in which region and in which country we intervened militarily and whether it brought peace. Look at the situation in Libya! Look at the situation in Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria! Where did we bring peace with bombs? Is that logic? Are we going to bring peace with bombs? We're going to bring democracy with bombs? It's not working! And it never works! That is why we are going to vote against this motion for a resolution; because going to war, going to bomb civilian populations on the pretext of bringing them peace and democracy, it is a myth that we do not accept.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u105	Mr Francken, we follow the logic of the strength of the political groups...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u106	In conclusion, I would really like the democratic parties that are considering voting in favour of this resolution to reconsider their vote, especially since it will be impossible to have it voted without the support of Vlaams Belang.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u107	Mr Francken, I would like to give you the floor again, but colleagues have been registered: Mr Delvaux, Mr Verduyckt. If we move them all back, we'll be busy for a while. Then it is no longer an interruption, because Mr Boukili has finished. In the second round it is possible to add your name to the list of speakers, Mr Francken, but I must first give everyone the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u108	Mr President, I once stood there for two hours because I was constantly interrupted. This has given rise to interesting exchanges of views. I think that, certainly in a resolution, the mutual views can be argued by colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u109	Your group is the first to be registered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u110	Mr President, this is an intervention, a response to what has been said by colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u111	There's a right of interruption. That's what I gave you. That took five minutes. Normally, that's also limited. As political groups systematically use the right of interruption, other groups, which also have the right to intervene, are moving more and more backwards. I do not think that is the most beautiful picture of Parliament, that you stand there for two hours and are constantly interrupted. In the long term, we will have a debate without the speaker being able to tell us anything. Mrs. Pas, you don't agree with me?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u112	Mr President, I note that this was not a problem in the previous legislature. Then more was interrupted than the order was respected. I simply note that this is sometimes taken into account and sometimes not. I just hope that, together with the COOVID-19 measures, the parliamentary debate has not also been abolished. If one can no longer replicate things that have been said, then it is going the wrong way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u113	Mrs Pas, in the previous legislature, I was systematically annoyed by the fact that a speaker on the speaker's seat held a speech of 20 or 25 minutes and was on the speaker's seat for two hours. That is what happened with Mr De Roover. When he resumed his statement, no one knew where he had stopped. Everyone started talking to everybody. That is not my view of a parliamentary debate. A right to interruption is possible. I also know what the Rules of Procedure require. Mr Buysrogge has intervened and Mr Francken has been able to interrupt in detail. When I give Mr Francken the floor again, I ask myself how the other groups feel about them. No problem, you say. I think they're moving more and more back. If Mr Francken has anything to say now, he can do so. However, I would suggest that we conclude the list of speakers, so that each group can at least give its opinion first. That too is a question of parliamentary solidarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u114	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we can look back on a constructive and comprehensive debate at committee meetings. I am therefore somewhat surprised that the debate is continuing again here today. We have had several sessions and the debate was very constructive and extensive, which has led to a balanced resolution. That was confirmed by the committee members here today. Since September 2014, Belgium has been part of the coalition that is fighting Daesh. We are thus among the 13 countries that are both military and political in the fight against Daesh. I can assure you that I will be brief today. In the meantime, has the terrorist threat gone? That is absolutely not the case. On the contrary, it's rekindling. The figures show that since the first trimester of 2020 there have been no less than 566 confirmed attacks by IS in Iraq. Let there be no doubt about it: IS revives without international pressure and will once again become a threat to our country if we do not act against it. That is why it is all the more important that we act now. Home security begins abroad. Defence's request to use our F-16s in Iraq and Syria against Daesh is therefore justified and necessary to guarantee our security. The Open Group therefore supports the resolution before us, as it was adopted in committee, with a clear view of the military and humanitarian aspects. That is what we want. We want to defeat Daesh and once again create a stable situation for the citizens of Iraq.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u115	Boko Haram, Al-Shabaab, Jabhat al-Nusra and many others are stateless terrorist organisations that we very much want to get rid of. However, this cannot be done by pressing a button. In the Committee on Defence, I sometimes felt that some Members thought that this resolution was the key to taking out IS, especially because of the rapid support that was expressed even before the debate started. Mr Delvaux, you say that we have had a discussion, but we must not take this lightly. There are some consequences. I therefore think it is only natural that we should exchange our views very clearly. We did a good job on the committee. That is perhaps a good thing, although it has not always happened in the past. It is good in itself that we can discuss in this House and exchange our views on military actions that have implications on the ground. However, with the result, which is the case, the sp.a group cannot be satisfied. The reason has been quoted here a number of times and is actually quite simple. We weren't invited to the party. We weren't asked in Syria. We've been asked in Iraq. In the Parliament of Iraq, after the murder of Soleimani in January, a few things were said about the Western troops, which indicate that it will not be easy either, but they asked us to do so. Mr Francken, you said just now that Iraq absolutely needs us. The report to the US Congress by the General responsible for this operation refers to the heroes of Iraq. That is an action in which even without coalition support attacks are carried out today with F-16s. Presenting Iraq today as a helpless state may be an exaggeration, but they did ask for our help. That's a clear invitation. There is no such thing in Syria. There is no UN mandate either. In my opinion, the committee was right to say that we will never be given a UN mandate, as Russia and China are obstructing. This shows very clearly how complex the situation is in Syria today. With the fact that there is no UN mandate, we can do two things: either accept it or continue stubbornly, even if there is no mandate. Our line in this story is that we are still working in an international context and that we are therefore also complying with the international rules of the organisations we are members of. After all, since the Second World War, international organisations have ensured relative security in the world. I am referring specifically to the UN Security Council, the European Community and NATO. Sometimes these organizations are cumbersome and do not allow what we want, but they provide security. The Belgian Government has always, since the Second World War, registered in its coalition agreement to respect international law. This line, which we have maintained since the Second World War, seems to be of no concern to us today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u116	Mr Verduyckt, Mr Francken wishes to interrupt you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u117	Mr Verduyckt, allow me to say that the world has changed since World War II. The Russians are furious, by the way, also the Chinese, but in particular the Russians, about what we have done in Libya. Since then, we have not been able to regulate any UN mandates. It does not matter whether or not Belgium is a member of the UN Security Council, we will not make the difference. Russia and China will always veto a UN mandate. In the wider region of the Middle East and the Middle East, we cannot therefore carry out any military intervention. It won't happen, you don't have to hope for it. There are two possible ways of dealing with this. A first possibility is to find, like Green Ecolo, that it is disappointing to hear that it seems that it is also your opinion that there is no UN mandate, so that there is no legal basis, so that we do not intervene. A second possibility is to accept our responsibility and say that we are acting effectively in Iraq and in Syria. Assad won't ask us because he's Putin's hand puppet. However, we want to ensure that safety is stabilised. If we don't act, IS will grow back. IS will take more land, which it wants, and also become richer. IS will strengthen his troops and prepare the jihadis for battle again, even in our parts. There will be attacks. It is not stable yet, there are still many fighters and in the camp of Al-Hol there are more than 10,000 people. They will send warriors here, there will be attacks and the parties who are now against them will say that these attacks are very bad and that there must be a committee of inquiry into their causes. I'll tell you what that cause is, the fact that we're giving IS back oxygen. That's exactly why this operation is needed. After all, no one glorifies or loves it when F-16s need to be sent. You see that completely wrong, that mentality does not exist in our country, perhaps elsewhere within NATO, but not here. All we have to do is do this. I am also completely done with that excuse of the international mandate. We'll never have that again, and that's just a pubic patch. If it goes wrong, it can be said that it has always been said. If civilian casualties occur or if an F-16 is taken down, it can be said that the N-VA and the other parties were ready to go when they had always said so themselves. It is up to the government to resign because there have been 10 civilian casualties in a misplaced bomb. That's cheap and easy, of course it doesn't work that way. We will not have that international mandate, and I think that is a very cheap excuse. Think beyond that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u118	Okay, well, we clearly disagree on that. A UN mandate is not cheap and there was also an alternative. Let us take a look at what has happened here in Parliament in recent years. Most of my colleagues spoke here about 2016, the high days of IS, and I feel that this determines the full atmosphere of this resolution. Nor were the conditions met in 2014 and then we went to Iraq alone. Mrs Jadin would have liked broad support, and if that alternative had been proposed today, it would have been something we could have considered. In 2016 we were effective in both Syria and Iraq. However, that was a completely different situation. We have to be honest about this, as several speakers have already said today, the situation is not comparable to that in 2016. In 2016, IS was a propaganda machine that effectively attracted a lot of radicalized, frustrated warriors. From Raqqa there were constant attacks on Iraq and the UN stated in a resolution that ISIS was a problem for world peace and that the Member States were best able to take action. This meeting then used that fact to fight IS in Iraq. We did not agree, but that was the situation that existed in 2016. Today, however, the situation is not the same, because we are dealing with a stateless terrorist organisation that is hiding in mountainous areas in Syria and Iraq. In this room, the Defence Planning Officer for this operation has literally said that there is a less robust framework today than in 2016. That's what he said. Those aren't my words, those are his words.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u119	Mr. Verduyckt, you said "mevrouw," but I guess you were aiming at me. It's a personal fact! When I speak of a wider majority, honourable Member, I think that such a subject, its necessity and history impose on us at some point the need to make substantial decisions because it is a consequent decision. Indeed, we are talking about a third mission and an initiative that we know very well the basis for. Let's be honest and I hope that's not what you think, no one makes a decision like this one of loving joy. No one takes these assignments lightly. Moreover, there was much discussion about the transparency of the mission and the possibility of intervention in Syria. It has been explained why – and I have just done so – we cannot have a United Nations resolution to date. I find all this really sad and damaging in relation to what must be our duty: the fight against the Islamic State. You also sit in the Committee on External Relations, I think. So you should know that homes are not just re-forming in Syria but also in Iraq. If you refer to the report of the United Nations, an internationally recognized organization to which you like to refer - and I agree with you in this regard - you will also see that the resurgence of Daesh in these two regions is real and disturbing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u120	Mr President, I have a duty to speak because I hear things here that put me a little out of my mind. My colleague and other colleagues have said well and reaffirmed in committee and here that we are all in favour of the fight against Daesh, the fight against terrorism and Islamist radicalism and therefore all forms of violent radicalism. I take advantage of the few minutes I have here to say that bombing countries, people do not solve anything. Since the time they were bombed, have the attacks stopped? No! On the contrary, they have grown even further. Therefore, there is still a need for development cooperation, a humanitarian approach, a diplomatic approach parallel to the military approach, which is not currently available in the coalition proposals. I will finish by repeating your remarks, Mrs Jadin. You said in the rostrum that we may not respect international law. I regret that, for me, as for my colleagues here, international law is non-negotiable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, I note that you have resumed a debate between yourselves and that Mr Verduyckt is with us. I think he meant something. Mrs Jadin, you do not have the floor. You had the floor. MM. De Vriendt and Mr Buysrogge have asked for the floor. Then Mr Verduyckt will finish his speech. This is not a question of conducting a committee debate. I must give the speakers on the list the opportunity to conclude their statements. It's the least polite!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u122	Mr President, first of all, I would also like to address the Minister asking him to pay attention and to read what Mr Francken has just said. The ease with which he has put aside the importance of the UN Security Council and a UN mandate is worrying. I hope that will never be the line of our country when it comes to the deployment of military resources and foreign operations. Then we're in a bad way. Mr Francken said that there are problems in the UN Security Council and that we should never, in fact, wait for a mandate from the UN Security Council again, because otherwise there is nothing we can do. The misery of course began with the UN resolution 1973 at the time of Libya, on which there was indeed a consensus in the UN Security Council. Russia also fully agreed. However, some countries then exceeded that UN mandate, on which the Russians were not particularly pleased; from then on they were less inclined to join in a consensus in the UN Security Council. Minister, is the solution what Mr Francken is proposing, namely that from now on we should stop paying attention to what the UN Security Council decides, but simply do our own will? Mr Buysrogge, now I know where those cowboys you just mentioned are. They're in your group. I believe that we do not need cowboys in international law and that a country like Belgium should not behave like a cowboy either. Secondly, Mr Lacroix is right that we all want to stop IS. There are alternatives at the moment. The situation is not comparable. IS no longer controls a large part of Syria and part of Iraq. Mr Francken, if attacks are taking place in our country, I hope that those attacks will not be carried out by Belgian IS fighters who escaped from the camps which were not adequately guarded by the Kurds. With a number of Members of this House, we say that Belgium must accept its responsibility. If the Kurds ask us to take responsibility for the Belgian IS fighters themselves, to guard them themselves, to put them in prison and to bring them to justice, because they themselves can no longer handle it, then there is a huge security risk there. I hope you're aware of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u123	You have already spoken, so I shall now give the floor to Mr Buysrogge and then I think it is only right for Mr Verduyckt to continue with his speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u124	Mr President, I would like to refer very briefly to three points. Firstly, it is said that there are cowboys in our group. But we want to fight terrorism. I don't call that cowboy work. I want us to do this in a serious way. We are not cowardly and do not pull our tails in and we want to fight against IS in a serious way. Secondly, Mr Lacroix, I really cannot place your plea. Your speech is also somewhat in contrast to that in committee. You're making suspicions of our military as if they were dropping bombs everywhere, while they're working very precisely. It just doesn't make sense that bombs would have been dropped on the population, among other things. I am therefore sorry that you are making that argument. That is in stark contrast to the serene discussion in committee. Thirdly, Mr Verduyckt, you say that we cannot act in the border area. We are not talking about an attack on Damascus or a fight against the Syrian army. The text explicitly refers to Northeast Syria, where IS is active. So it's really about that border area. We are playing into the hands of IS by not doing so. ISIS doesn't want us to be more restricted to Iraq. ISIS fighters are crossing the border for a while, and we can't hit them anymore. Then what is your solution without us playing into the hands of IS?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u125	I started my speech just now with a reference to a number of other terrorist organisations. We're not flying to Nigeria today to deal with Boko Haram either. Once again, we want to support the demand from Iraq, but we do not want to fly over areas that are a wasp nest and are not under anyone's control, a situation whose consequences we would not know. That is our position. I would like to put another argument on the table as to why we will not approve the present motion for a resolution. That's the threat level in our country. Today, fortunately, that is not as high as in 2016, it is now on level 2. We all want to keep that. However, we felt it was only natural that the dossier should be accompanied by an analysis by the OCAD on the current situation and on the prospects for September. Mrs Jadin's text states that Parliament will be updated in September. Well, we would like to link an analysis to that. I see you nodding; you indeed argued that Homeland Security is linked to foreign conflicts for you. Well, then support our amendment, because that is not insignificant. It is absolutely not our intention to cause panic, but we do want to know what is happening within our borders. In April a sleeping cell was rolled up in Germany, making plans there. We must not be naive in this respect. Blackmail has nothing to do with it, as I just heard someone say, not at all. We are concerned about this. Mr Bogaert, I can imagine that there was no OCAD in 1302. Now there is; so let's make use of it. Finally, the text was supplemented by a number of amendments on parliamentary transparency regarding civilian casualties. That is a good thing, because none of us want civilian casualties and Defence has clearly explained how they are to be avoided. We don't have to be afraid of that, there may be civilian casualties. For example, the Netherlands recently experienced civilian casualties as a result of the attack on Hawija. The biggest problem, apart from the drama in itself, was the events in Parliament afterwards. There was a lot said there which turned out to be wrong. Several ministers involved have survived five motions of censure, motivated by a lack of transparency. We hope, of course, that there will be no civilian casualties, but if they are to be regretted, at least we know what has gone wrong. We are therefore pleased that our amendment has been accepted in order to draw lessons from the Hawija dossier. What we particularly regret is that the text of the resolution has remained too much in the spirit of 2016. We believe that the retaliation for the attacks at that time is still alive, but that does not give us the right to put aside international law. That is why we will not support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important resolution that we are about to submit to our vote. I would like to extend the discussion we have had in committee. I wish to reiterate that if we have been able to reduce the terrorist threat to our populations, it is of course because we have pursued the terrorists here. Our police and intelligence services and our magistrates have arrested and neutralized their actions and I welcome them. It is also because our air force and special forces have intervened in Syria and Iraq. This terrorist threat did not diminish on its own because Daesh allegedly renounced violence and terror. On the contrary, Daesh fought to the end in the Baghuz enclave in Syria. In Brussels, on 22 March 2016, its members preferred to improvise a double bloody attack rather than give up, knowing that the vice would tighten on them. Unfortunately, therefore, the use of force and weapons has been indispensable. It is because there is no longer an Islamic State on the border with Syria and Iraq that the threat has diminished in our country. The action of our military has clearly ensured the protection of our national security, and I would like to pay tribute to them here. Our country is now safer. It should be recalled that what we are talking about first of all is a question of national security in relation to a terrorist group that has threatened and continues to threaten our people. On the ground, in Syria and Iraq, even though the international coalition won in Baghuz in 2019 thanks to the support of our combat aircraft, the situation is far from resolved. Daech takes advantage of the chaos and the pandemic to regain vigor. Despite the collapse of the caliphate, Daesh is reborn from his ashes. As we know, it no longer controls vast territories, but cells sow terror. This is the case along the Euphrates, in the Deir ez-Zor region, but also in the no man's land between Iraqi Kurdistan and the Mosul region. In April and May, the attacks of the Islamic State have never been so numerous and bold since the fall of Baghouz: murders, beheadings, field fires, abductions, rapes. Daesh not only terrorizes the population but also collects new taxes, collects funds and seeks to consolidate and regain financial capacity for larger ambitions. Therefore, we do need to consolidate stability in northern Syria and Iraq. In this regard, we have known for eight years now that it is not the troops of Bashar al-Assad, nor the Russians, nor the Turks who fight the Islamic State, but the international coalition, in support of the Iraqi army and the peshmergas in Iraq, and in support of the Syrian democratic forces in Syria, including both Kurds and Sunni Arabs or Christian forces. These Defence and Security Forces (DFS) are the infantry and include several tens of thousands of men and women, but our air support is essential. What would happen in the north-east of Syria without the international presence, without the French, British and American special forces or without air support? It is clear, as we have seen from the events of 2019, that a new large-scale war would erupt. Bashar al-Assad announced that he wanted to commit all his forces to regain control of these territories, with the air support of the Russians and the support of the Shiite militias on the ground, which had been dishonest by the Sunni tribes. Bashar al-Assad has never sought a negotiated solution with the Syrian democratic forces and has always refused to meet their envoys. The Turks, for their part, who have indeed resumed the bombings in northern Iraq, would not hesitate to bomb, take ground and consolidate their long-term position along the Syrian-Turkish border, probably permanently occupying a wide strip of territory in northern Syria, with a process of ethnic cleansing at the key. This is not a fictional scenario but the current situation. Moreover, a Shiite axis would be created between Iran and Lebanon, passing through Mosul and Raqqa, to the great dam of the Sunni regional powers and Israel, which have already indicated their intention not to let it go. Hundreds of thousands of Kurds would resume the roads of the exodus to Iraqi Kurdistan. The Islamic State, for its part, would be strengthened by the chaos created, by the diversion of the only forces that actually combat it on the ground - the Syrian democratic forces - as well as by the frustrations of the Sunni populations forced to live under the yoke of Shiite militias, equipped and supervised by Iran. One thing is certain: if the Islamic State were to be reborn from its ashes because of our inaction, it is our own security that would be threatened there, at the gates of Europe, by elements that would resurface, or simply because radicalised groups in Belgium would return to the path of terrorism. The terrorist threat is still level 2 in Belgium, and even level 3 for some sensitive sites. Terrorist vocations are therefore not completely tarnished in our country. And if we have a real break in the recruitment of suicide bombers, it is because the Islamic State no longer makes us dream today. But if he were to record victories again, he would again be a powerful source of inspiration. In our debate in committee, almost all political groups spoke of a demand for stability. But this stability will not be achieved on its own. It imposes for the moment, and for a moment without doubt, an international presence with the capacity to nullify the resurgence ambitions of the Islamic State and regional ambitions. Belgium must take part in this security effort. Firstly, because the Belgian population has paid a heavy toll on terrorism. This creates a firm obligation for the State to protect for the future. Secondly, because our country has a heavy debt. He provided a large contingent of terrorists who hit there and here. Some of them were among the greatest executioners, such as Abdelhamid Abaaoud, who had fun dragging corpses behind his pick-up in Raqqa and participated in the attacks in Paris; or were among the Islamic State officials, such as Osama Atar, the Belgian accused of being the head of the Islamic State's external operations and who is the suspected brain of the attacks in Paris and Brussels. Our country must also be a reliable partner in international security. We have a duty of loyalty to the international coalition that is continuing the fight against terrorism. Belgium is part of a core group, a central group of 13 countries, which coordinate closely within a broader coalition of 77 states to continue the fight against Daesh. This gives us certain political and military advantages. The secret services of these 13 countries exchange information that is essential to our own security. For example, we participate in strategic and tactical discussions. But again, it creates obligations, such as the obligation to participate in the military effort and not to let others take the risks. Now, for the time being, and for a long time now, our contribution is close to zero. Our F-16s left the region in December 2017, and we no longer have anyone on the ground. It is therefore high time to finally respond to the demand of our allies to come and support them. It is also the formal request of the Iraqi government and the most expensive wish of the Kurds, whom we abandoned when they suffered heavy losses - 10,000 men and women dead in the fight against the Islamic State - and to capture our terrorist nationals and their families. They also hold, as we know, several dozen of our Belgian nationals at the risk of their own lives, since we do not want them. We have a duty to assist them. The question remains of the international legality of the operation, in which we join. We must, of course, act in accordance with the rules of international law - as we discussed at length this afternoon. There is, however, some discussion. Let's take it back. As far as operations in Iraq are concerned, we intervene at the express request of the Iraqi government. Therefore, this does not pose any difficulties. For operations in Syria, it's less simple. The legal basis is not impeccable, it is true, but it exists, with its weaknesses due to the context and - let us say frankly - to the irresponsibility of certain members of the Security Council, including Russia of course. First of all, there is no question of cooperating with Bashar al-Assad, himself a great provider of terror, massacres of civilians, bombing of hospitals, the use of chemical weapons and other war crimes. We know that he himself contributed to the emergence of the Islamic State to save its bloody dictatorship. In the days following the Paris attacks in November 2015, France had resolution 2249 adopted by the United Nations Security Council unanimously by its 15 members. The text recalls that Daesh constitutes an unprecedented global threat and calls on Member States that have the means to put an end to the terrorist acts committed by this group to do so. Until that date, the military actions against Daesh in Syria were legally based by self-defence, in accordance with article 51 of the United Nations. However, this legal basis, under which some ten countries operated in the Syrian sky, including France and the United Kingdom, was considered by Belgium to be questionable without a Security Council resolution. Our country therefore limited its interventions to the Iraqi sky alone. One hit, but of size: the terrorists of Daesh had and still have their rear base in Syria, in the area of Deir ez-Zor. Resolution 2249 of 2015 therefore consolidated the argument of self-defence. It calls on States to take "any necessary measures in Syria and Iraq, in order to put an end to the terrorist acts committed by Daesh in particular". The term "any necessary measure", for coded to appear to the layman, is the term used by the Security Council to authorize the use of force in the implementation of its decisions. However, section 42 of Chapter 7 of the Charter, which is generally the basis for the use of force, is not explicitly mentioned in this resolution as is usually the practice. Only the reference to the Charter as a whole is mentioned, so also its Chapter 7, but implicitly. It is therefore an imperfect resolution. It was the price that Russia had to pay so that it would not oppose its veto. It had already done so 12 times throughout the Syrian conflict, undermining every time the attempts to resolve this immense carnage. If our resolution is not perfect in terms of law, we therefore owe it to a country, Russia, which has vetoed the Security Council to cynically protect the tyrant of Damascus and its own geostrategic interests, in disregard of the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people. All this by itself violating international law and committing numerous war crimes, such as the bombing of schools and hospitals. It is a recent report of the Security Council that tells us that. It remains, and it is important to note, that since this resolution 2249 was adopted unanimously by the Security Council, Russia has not opposed the international coalition against Daesh. Invoking today the relative weakness of resolution 2249 in order not to contribute to air support in Syria, as some parties propose, is therefore legally questionable and irresponsible in terms of the political and security of our people. It is to let go even more of our allies in the region, including the Kurds who hold our nationals, and to take the risk of a burning between Shiites and Sunnis. It is to play the game of Russia which, through the endless agony of Syria, managed to weaken Europe considerably, struck by terrorism and deeply divided on the reception of refugees. Ladies and gentlemen, I must conclude by saying that Europe must assert itself, not only in the context of the stabilisation of this terrible conflict, but also in the search for political solutions, so that the Syrians can finally find peace, that the refugees can return home and that we can participate in the reconstruction of this devastated country. It is in this spirit that our group co-signed this text. It has made a significant contribution to improving it through the tabling of amendments. He will support the resolution before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed an important resolution before us. We have co-signed it because we believe that it is part of the IRO engagement in Iraq and north-eastern Syria and that it makes sense for our country to be a member of the United Nations Security Council and also to have the status of co-editor for humanitarian issues in Syria. In my view, this resolution has the necessary legal basis both by the request for intervention by the Iraqi authority and by UN Resolution 2249 adopted on 20 November 2015. Yes, I agree, this is a military commitment supported by a need for collective self-defence against Daesh. But it is also part of a context of respect for international humanitarian law and our country's demonstrated willingness to contribute, within its diplomatic means, to a ceasefire in this particularly tried and tested part of the world. I would like to give a little thought to the interesting debate that has already taken place here on the subject and the dilemma of whether or not to intervene, as if there were only two possible choices and as if, as my colleague from the PTB suggested, intervening ex officio abroad systematically meant a bad thing. I can't put myself in a manicheism like that. Of course, the intervention in Iraq in 2003 by the Americans was a disaster. It's good because we didn't go there. Of course, it is in this intervention that Daesh took root and it is to this intervention that we owe a large part of the existing troubles in the Middle East today. Of course, there is a whole series of interventions that Westerners would have done well. However, we need to see things more broadly. In Rwanda, in 1994, we left after Hutus extremists massacred ten of our para. Like the rest of the international community, we have witnessed a gigantic genocide powerless. Still in the 1990s, I was a teenager and I remember very well, for years we all looked at the Yugoslav conflict. We have witnessed camps, ethnic cleansing, massacres. This came to an end only because NATO, with planes and sometimes bombs, intervened to put an end to the conflict, just as, a little later, in Kosovo in 1999. I mean there is no absolute rule, I am sorry, according to which, of course, we must never intervene or do it. The world is more complex and more nuanced than that. That's the case here. This mandate as a member of the Security Council allows us to continue to work, beyond the military fight against Daesh that must be pursued, for the lasting resolution of this conflict. In addition, this motion for a resolution contains institutional safeguards for regular parliamentary scrutiny of this commitment, which would be extended by one year from 1 October 2020 for a single year. That is why my group will support this resolution, which seems to us to be moving in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said, it is important for the government and for me to be able to conduct this debate in committee. This debate has been rich and, as some of you have pointed out, the widest possible expressions have taken place and, above all, the most comprehensive information has been made available. It was an important element for us. Of course, I am not going to repeat the debate here. The purpose of a resolution is to give a signal. With the chairman of the committee and with you, Mr. Chairman, we had sought the way to be used, given the special conditions of the government in day-to-day affairs, to ensure that Parliament could give a signal and express its opinion on a clearly expressed wish by the Kern to be able to actually send F-16s under the conditions you know. The formula that has been adopted has made it possible for democratic exercise to take place in the best possible conditions. I would like to go back to a few things. I have heard from some of you, including Mr Lacroix, that we are not in a comprehensive approach and that we are probably in an over-targeted approach. That's not the case. I would remind you that, in addition to its military involvement in the coalition, Belgium has made important humanitarian contributions for the reconstruction of both Iraq and Syria. It's important to say it with a few numbers. It's more of a talker. Since 2016, Belgium has donated more than €13 million to the stabilization of the liberated territories of Daesh in Iraq and Syria and more than €196 million in humanitarian aid in the context of the Iraq-Syrian crisis. Since 2018, €5 million has been allocated to the United Nations Development Programme's Stabilization Fund in Iraq and €25 million in humanitarian aid. The PTB reported that we had not done anything at all. Truth has its rights and it is important to remember it. In 2019, €2 million is allocated to the Stabilization Fund in Iraq and €2 million is allocated for the clearance of areas released in Iraq and Syria via the United Nations Mine Action Service. Mr Boukili, in 2019, there were 32 million euros in humanitarian aid! So when you say that our country is only in a military process, that is clearly not true! In 2020, €2 million is planned for stabilization, €1.5 million is planned for demining in Iraq and €500,000 is planned for demining in Syria. I will also be participating next week in a fourth conference in support of Syria and the region. The conditions, you know them, and I will give you all the details of these figures if you wish. It's important!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u129	Mr. Minister, you mentioned Mr. Boukili's name. I give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u130	Mr Minister, just one clarification: I do not deny that there has been humanitarian aid. What I'm saying is that war is not a solution. Bombarding to justify this bombardment with humanitarian aid is not a way to solve the problems. That is our position. I've never claimed you've done anything but bombard. What I'm saying is that bombing is the main problem. There would be no need for humanitarian assistance if there were no bombings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u131	We are clearly in a comprehensive approach. Our overall approach was also translated diplomatically into efforts supported by the UN Security Council. The Syrian humanitarian dossier has been Belgium's priority since the beginning of our mandate in the Security Council. Since this year, we have been working with Germany on a humanitarian resolution. In December 2019, Russia and China opposed the renewal of that resolution. In January 2020 we managed to obtain an extension, but only for 6 months and 2 crossing points in northwest Syria. At present we have a few weeks to obtain an extension of the cross-border resolution, the importance of which has increased as a result of the COOVID-19 pandemic. We are stepping up our efforts and initiatives in the Security Council, in Turkey and in the national and international NGOs to obtain the extension. Belgium's action is based on repeated demands from the Iraqi government. You have also been many to mention it. I won't come back. This morning, I was still in contact with the new Iraqi Foreign Minister who actually reminded me of this wish, expressed many times. The legal argument was indeed raised and clarified. We can hold a very long debate on this. I recall that the arguments set out in Belgium's letter to the Security Council in June 2016 to explain our commitment to the coalition are still valid. The first element that underpins our action is article 51. Belgium is taking necessary and proportionate measures against the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant in Syria, in response to the Iraqi government's request. In its resolution, and Mr. Dallemagne and Ms. Jadin have returned, the Security Council states that the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant constitutes an unprecedented threat to international peace and security and calls on Member States to eradicate the refuges that the Islamic State has established in significant areas, both in Iraq and Syria. You have reminded him, Mr Dallemagne: there is a piece of sentence that is not mentioned enough and which finally says a lot of things. "The Security Council calls upon Member States to take all necessary measures to that end. In international law, this concept of "all necessary measures for this purpose" obviously has a very specific meaning. I would like to add one element. It was above all the Ecolo-Groen group which, in committee, referred to this element, and in particular Mr Cogolati. He had raised the issue that the resolution, being not based on chapter 6 or 7, was problematic. In fact, the binding nature of a resolution is not defined by the chapter of the Charter of the United Nations, whether it be chapter 6 or chapter 7, but rather by the language used by the resolution. As I have just pointed out, the language used chooses the formula: "all necessary measures". As you know, whether you are a lawyer or not, you can discuss at length the meaning to be given to words, and the purpose of a text as it has been tabled. Mr Dallemagne recalled exactly the narrow conditions under which the text of this resolution could be adopted unanimously. We may have preferred an even stronger basis, but we believe that this base exists and is real. The path to this was narrow, but we were able to take this path wisely. To claim that, because of the failure to adopt resolution 2249 under Chapter 7 of the Charter of the United Nations, it could not have an operational legal effect, in our view, is not a correct interpretation of the Charter. As has been mentioned, the situation on the ground is still critical. We clearly believe that Article 51 remains justified, as was the case in 2016, even if the situation on the ground has changed. Daesh remains active in Iraq, Syria and is still a threat to Iraq, which continues to demand coalition support. The evidence is this phone call between the Iraqi Foreign Minister and me. Mr President, I will not add any more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u132	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u133	• 67 – Annick Ponthier cs (1298/9) Demand/Request 1 • 69.. Kris Verduyckt (1298/9) Demand/Request 7 • 70 p.m. Kris Verduyckt (1298/9) Demand/Request 7/1(n) • 71... Kris Verduyckt (1298/9) Demand/Request 19(n) • 68 – Annick Ponthier cs (1298/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u134	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u135	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Simon Moutquin, Wouter De Vriendt, Samuel Cogolati, Malik Ben Achour, Georges Dallemagne.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u136	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (12926) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1292/6) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mrs Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u137	Mr President, I will refer to my written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u138	The first speaker in the general discussion was Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution that we are discussing here is, hopefully, theoretical for the time being, not for the time being, but for the time being, rather than for the time being, because it is a preliminaries to what could be decided. Let us hope that it remains a theoretical exercise. That will have to be demonstrated in the next few days and weeks. What is feared is that annexation is a word that one does not like to hear in Israel, by the way, because there is a different view on this, which would not change much in the field. There won't be any tanks rolling in. It is an existing situation that one wants to record. Even if there is not much happening on the ground, this will, of course, cause the necessary unrest. It makes it difficult to reach a compromise between the Palestinians and the Israelis, on the basis of the lines laid down by the United Nations and within which we still want to move. It further weakens the Palestinian negotiating base. Even if there is not much to see on the ground, this will make a difference in diplomatic, political and geopolitical terms. The Israelis now assume that they must forge the iron while it is hot, with the support of the Trump administration in the back. They believe they can do things today that they may not be able to do with the same backing after the American elections, with a possible other president. Let it be clear that for my group, the Trump plan is not a basis for a solution. Some colleagues are less interested in the theme. That is not in itself illogical, Mr President, but I do not hear myself. I do not see Mr De Vriendt either, although I have to address him in part. The broad back of colleague Leysen makes personal contact, especially at more than one and a half meters, difficult. It is our view that the Trump plan offers little perspective for a solution as we wish it. It is written to Israel's bespoke standards and contains above all obligations that rest on the Palestinian shoulders. This means that the balance, which is already not very balanced, is further lost. In addition, there is a very small chance that there will be broad international support for a path that builds on the Trump plan, not to say virtually non-existent. Perhaps this is used as a test to see how far one can go. The new Israeli government has probably been strengthened by the election results and the broad majority in the Knesset, a coalition that goes from religious and far right to the left in the Israeli Parliament, to take certain initiatives. This could once again lead to overconfident reactions. It is against this background that the initiators have tabled the resolution before us. We were able to adopt a broad-based common position on this issue not so long ago in 2015, in Parliament. We supported that at the time. This remains an excellent starting point for us to look at the situation on the ground. On the basis of the criteria that we have approved and which we still support, we can only conclude that the Trump peace plan could be a harbinger of unilateral steps that we cannot support. The conclusion is simple and yet complex. The resolution, for which I would like to thank the authors on this point, avoids an over-activist approach. This is important if it wishes to make any sense in the context of the international debate we are discussing here. That means that we were inclined to support that resolution for a long time. Still, we're not gonna do that. We are certainly not going to vote against it. We are going to abstain for two reasons that we have noticed in the debate that has taken place. Firstly, the terminology used in the objective and the means are extremely vague. That was perhaps also the intention, in order to be able to support the resolution by a very broad majority. That means the text is a passe-partout. It is a text that can be used in all directions. We do not even know what interpretation will be given when we adopt the text. We are less enthusiastic about some of those interpretations. Secondly, the timing and proportionality are not clear either. Is sanctions, which should not be excluded by definition, concerned with dissuasive measures? Is it a response when the annexation took place? Does it happen before the annexation would take place? Is it to scare off? These are points which we do not see sufficiently clearly formulated. That is the reason for our abstention in this resolution. We stick to Parliament's position when discussing the text in 2015.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u140	Mr Minister, as some have pointed out, the American President proposed a peace plan a few months ago, which has no peace but the name and which was concocted by the American and Israeli administrations for the sole benefit of the Israeli administration. This plan consists of blackmail, in other words, the granting of a large sum of money in exchange for land — a neighbourhood 10 kilometres from Jerusalem, which could serve as a capital for the Palestinians and is therefore far from what international law provides. We have here, therefore, confirmation that Israel is busy establishing a real apartheid regime, under which Palestinians will be relegated to Arab Bantustans. This also confirms the colonial domination that has existed for decades in the region. In the end, this announcement by the Israeli government is in keeping with the policy pursued by Prime Minister Benyamin Netanyahu, who now has 600,000 settlers in the occupied Palestinian territories. A policy that has been characterized for many years by targeted arrests and assassinations, by an intensification of the blockade of Gaza, by the destruction of Palestinian property, and I am moving on. The regime in place is synonymous with physical and psychological oppression, which has been practised over thousands of Palestinians for years. Many of us in this assembly have already visited the Palestinian territories and have become aware of what this occupation means in practice: women forced to undress at checkpoints, students who are prevented from going to exams or children who are being abused by Israeli settlers in Hebron or elsewhere... Today, I register as a catch-all in relation to what was said in the 2015 resolution, and I think the situation has changed. After the annexation of Jerusalem in 1980, it is now the Jordan Valley and several blocks of settlements that are clearly threatened and whose annexation is being prepared. Unfortunately, this annexation is already under way. Indeed, we have many testimonies that Palestinian villages are currently surrounded by the Israeli army, where water pipes for Palestinians are destroyed by the Israeli army. We observe similar phenomena in villages such as Wadi Fukin, which is blocked between the 1949 border and Israeli settlements. What will be the fate of these Palestinian villages and their inhabitants if annexation is to take place? In fact, we will continue a process that has been under way since 1948, which is a process of expulsion of Palestinian refugees. For a few months now, in Parliament, in committee, we have been dealing with the subject of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. We have dealt with it in particular in a debate on the policy of differentiation, with hearings that we have asked for. We have dealt with it with a draft parliamentary mission, which could not take place because of the VOCID-19, but also with discussions with the Israeli and Palestinian ambassadors. The motion for a resolution that we are presenting to you today is finally a constructive text in relation to these hearings; constructive, but clear. For us environmentalists, Donald Trump's United States can no longer be left in the hands of Palestinians and Israelis who aspire to peace. Belgium and Europe must prevent the Israeli government from crossing this new red line, and I repeat, this alarm cry is for both Palestinians and Israelis who aspire to peace. This resolution contains three requests. First, to take initiatives to prevent Israel's annexation of the Palestinian territories. Secondly, it is hoped that Belgium, together with other countries, including the European institutions, will be able to participate in the development of a list of ambitious and effective countermeasures designed to respond to any annexation of the Israeli army. Finally, to take and support appropriate initiatives in relevant international fora, including the Security Council. Colleagues, this fight is not the fight of one side or another. It's not like a football game, as people would sometimes like to limit it to it. It is in fact a question of defending only one camp, of being an activist for only one camp, Monsieur de Roover: it is that of international law. I think it's fundamental. There is no nuance, there is no equidence to have in this respect of international law. Minister, you yourself have repeatedly reminded the committee that "international law is not with variable geometry". It is in that sense that we wanted to propose this resolution. I would also like to say that defending a just and lasting peace in the Middle East is also ultimately defending a situation that the Israelis are experiencing; and I am thinking in particular of NGOs, associations that defend respect for international law in Israel. As we know, they have been for a few months, a few years, vilified by the Israeli government, even assaulted, sometimes physically, on the street. Avraham Burg, former President of the Knesset, published a letter addressed to the European Union, signed by 83 of us - House and Senate. The letter states: "The European Union and its Member States must act to prevent this annexation. This decision will be fatal to the prospects for Israeli-Palestinian peace and will call into question the most fundamental norms that guide international relations, including the Charter of the United Nations." Today, Nikolay Mladenov, UN envoy for the Middle East, also said: "Israel's annexation of entire parts of the occupied West Bank could create a vacuum that would be filled by radicals with devastating intentions." In conclusion, a sentence comes to mind. This was often told to me by the director of a cultural centre in a refugee camp, that of Aida near Bethlehem. He said, "We Palestinians don't have the luxury of despair." The resolution proposed today has two objectives: on the one hand, to send a message to the Israeli government: "Don't cross this red line!" and, on the other hand, give a little hope to the Palestinians who have been suffering injustice for decades.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u141	Mr. President, I won't be very long. I agree, on behalf of my group, with what has just been explained by Mr Moutquin. It is obviously not for nothing that we have co-signed this text. In our view, the turn, and even the historic turning point, of the conflict calls for another turning point: that of European diplomacy. Let us take a step backwards and heights, analysing the evolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict since the signing of the Oslo Accords. She's dramatic, because she's just made it worse. This development has been marked by the ever-increasing radicalization of the Israeli government and, at the same time, the narrowing of the peace camp in Israel. We need to look at this situation in the face. On this basis, we must take stock of European diplomacy. Let us acknowledge that it counts too little and does not weigh enough in this conflict. Europeans have been increasingly invisitized, silenced and – taking the risk of being too severe in the eyes of some – I would add: too little listened to. The European Union is seen above all by the Israeli government as a market, since it is, moreover, its first trading partner. That is why I am talking about the need for a diplomatic turning point. The conflict has indeed taken a historic turn. Therefore, in the name of a form of proportionality that is imperative to us, we must adjust our position to this development and to the stance adopted by the Israeli government. It would have been possible to discuss, in this context and in this context, the necessary recognition of the State of Palestine. We will certainly do so later. I hope we will do so on other bases, in this room, later, but not too late. Indeed, if we too miss this turn, we risk disappearing permanently from the diplomatic game, linked to this conflict that has lasted too long. If we have co-signed the text of the Ecolo-Groen Group, it is because we believe that in addition to the recognition of the State of Palestine, of which we shall be discussing again, Belgium, with or without its partners, has the freedom to take measures that will send a signal. This time, this signal will exceed that of words. For too long, we have trapped ourselves in the book of speech. We have locked ourselves in the book of speech and in doing so, we have somehow been bogged down in a form of inaction, inefficiency and impotence. The text that is proposed here, if the government takes full advantage of it – and this is what Parliament is obviously asking for – will give Belgium the opportunity to act. That is what we are asking, and that is what we were also asking with the recognition of the State of Palestine: to move from the register of words to that of acts. We must get out of the incantations, the usual communiqués calling for restraint, calling for de-escalation, recalling the principle of respect for international law, etc. Israel literally sits on these words. But I believe that this State will understand that, as the first economic partner, Europe can legitimately claim to be a political lever. We therefore consider it necessary, if not indispensable, to vote in favour of this text, otherwise we would miss a historic moment and be described by some as opportunistic – I am thinking in particular of the amendments proposed by the MR. If we are still thinking at the right time, when only a few days separate us from an annexation that would be an unprecedented insult to international law, then what is this opportune moment? Let us seize this momentum to begin rethinking the position, the most effective posture we could adopt in this conflict. We therefore wholeheartedly support this text and hope that it will find the widest possible majority, so that European diplomacy can finally change and weigh the weight that should be its own in the context of this conflict.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u142	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that I will suspend the sitting at 7.30 p.m. to 8.15 p.m. because the services, including those in the report, are calling for a break, which we must take into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u143	Mr President, in committee, this motion for a resolution is a reaction to what the Trump administration has presented to us as a plan for lasting peace in the Middle East, which provided for Israel to annex certain occupied territories to Palestine. The urgency of this deposit is justified in relation to the Israeli government agreement. We must be vigilant about the diplomacy of the European Union. Belgium has always followed this line and we want to continue to do so in the most coherent and united way possible. We know that there is no unanimous position of the European Union on this possible annexation of the territories by Israel. In committee, we had a concern with this text because some people ask for an unfortunate mix with geopolitical situations that I consider different and for which different reactions are needed. I did not do so in committee, since we abstained, but I tabled two amendments. We would like requests x and y of the resolution to be withdrawn. If that can be done, I think my group will be able to support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u144	Mr President, the situation on the ground has already been sufficiently outlined by previous speakers. I won't repeat that. The situation is indeed tense. No one knows exactly what will happen, not even diplomacy. There are many unknown factors. Only Netanyahu, and perhaps Trump, know what will happen from July 1st. Be sure, however, that the diplomats follow what is being voted in Parliament today. We must send a signal from this Parliament that this is a bridge too far. We say it loud and clear, for the CD&V Group it is clear that such an annexation would be a serious violation of international law. Israel thus leaves the path of multilateral dialogue for unilateral action. A unilateral annexation undermines any peace perspective based on a two-state solution. It would also be detrimental to security and stability in the region. For the CD&V group, only consultation and dialogue can be allowed to deviate from the limits of '67. We must condemn every annexation of Palestinian territory very clearly and strongly, not only in the interests of the Palestinians, but also in the interests of the Israelis. From a survey in Israel, we know that even the Israeli people are not asking for that annexation. Today they are more awake from the COVID-19 pandemic. In fact, their own extremist leaders like Netanyahu are putting their own people at risk in this way. That is unacceptable. It is therefore a good time to send a strong signal from our Parliament before 1 July. I think it's a powerful signal. I repeat that the diplomats are following very closely what we are doing today. It is important that we send this message within the framework of the European Union. We have to do everything we can to prevent that annexation. Belgium has already taken steps to this end within the European Union and the Security Council. We have also played a leading role in the Council with Mr Goffin. Our country is one of the progressive EU Member States that already wants to look at possibilities in the event of annexation. For that we also get a bit of international recognition. We can see that it is very difficult to adopt a united European position. That is why CD&V has tabled an amendment in committee to pursue a coalition of the willing with similar states. This amendment gives the Minister a little back-up to take further steps and can inspire other countries to go along with it. The amendment was widely supported in committee, for which I am grateful. I therefore welcome the resolution as it stands. She's got her best interests. We are committed to dialogue, at multilateral level, with like-minded states if there is no other way. But, of course, we are seeking a dialogue between Palestine and Israel, because that is what this is about. There's a clear need for a verdict on the annexation. That is why our group will support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u145	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the statements made by my colleagues who made this resolution on the atrocity of Israeli colonization in Palestine. I will try to illustrate it with a little story that happened two days ago on Tuesday, if there is yet another example to express the violence and barbarism of Israeli colonization. Last Tuesday, a young man, who accompanied his mother and sister to the latter's wedding, was shot dead by the Israeli army at a checkpoint. This young man was shot in a checkpoint between Bethlehem and Abudis. In addition, Aboudis is the city designated as the capital of Palestine in Trump and Netanyahu's famous deal of the century. This is where the Israeli checkpoint is and this is where this young man was shot, under the pretext – ridiculous of course, because there was no evidence – that this young man was going to carry out an attack at this checkpoint. It turns out that this young man is the nephew of Saëb Erakat, a senior official of the Palestinian authority. He was a young entrepreneur running his own business. And we execute him for suspicion, but we didn't just shoot him. The occupying forces let this young man die and drain his blood for hours. They prevented relief services as well as Palestinians waiting in the queue from crossing the checkpoint to help him. It is obviously problematic if this young man is saved! Indeed, he could testify to what had happened and question the version given by the Israeli soldiers. The occupying forces even refused to return the body to the family. They also refuse to show the footage of the checkpoint cameras, which show what really happened. Today we only rely on their version. This is one example among others of the barbarism of Israeli colonization in Palestine. Today, with this annexation plan, the peace process is being completely flouted, international law is being completely violated, and Palestinians are being called upon to accept a despicable life. That's what they're asked for. They are asked to close their mouths to an injustice that has existed for decades. They are asked to settle for a few isolated territories. To move from one territory to another, it will be necessary to go through the Israeli State, which separates these territories. This will further complicate the movement of these citizens. That's what we're proposing to this population. It is proposed to accept all human rights violations, violations of international law that it has been undergoing for decades. They are now being asked to formalize them in a so-called peace agreement. But who can believe that this project could be a peace agreement? Who can believe that this project is nothing more than an illustration of the abuse of power by the Israeli army? And if the State of Israel abuses its power, it is because it knows that it is not alone. The State of Israel has diplomatic and economic partnerships with economic powers such as the United States, such as the European States. He feels he is growing wings, since we have never taken steps, in the face of his unjust policy, to remind him to order. It is clear that the State of Israel is abusing that power. In fact, therefore, neither the agreements nor the resolutions of the Security Council are sufficient to call Israel back to order in order to put an end to this violation. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that if we want to give this peace process a chance and ensure respect for international law, we can no longer be content with statements. This will must be translated into action. This must be translated into measures (sanctions, cancellations of economic or diplomatic agreements, etc.). If Israel does not want to respect the right of Palestinians to have their freedom and sovereignty through an independent State, clear measures must be taken. We have heard statements every day for decades, as we have seen again in this House today. But words don't change anything. We have to take action. Mr President, we will support this resolution as a starting point and we hope that it will continue with this logic to impose on the State of Israel respect for international law and the rights of the Palestinians.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u146	Mr President, I agree with those Members who say that there is no ambiguity as to the question to our government and ministers to take a clear position. For example, the N-VA Group states that this is somewhat unclear and that the timing is difficult, but that is not the case, because the situation is very clear. This is a very threatening situation for which countries like Belgium only fit to take a stand and send a clear message. As Mr Moutquin said, we have indeed heard the ambassadors from the two sides. This was done in the context of the statements from Israel itself, in line with what Donald Trump said. Israel actually speaks unacceptable language, but has not been contradicted enough so far. For me, it was very significant that the Israeli Ambassador said he was in favour of dialogue, but that it was not possible, and that Israel had previously proposed delineating solutions, such as the two-state solution, but that it was not possible. In our view, our group will certainly support the resolution. It is all the more reason for Belgium not to make any reservations about the expression of clear language, to seek dialogue and possible solutions, against a discourse that goes so far in the field of international law that we in the international community should have seen a much faster and stronger response. Minister, we cannot do enough from Parliament. That is why we specifically ask you, when a majority supports it, to promote this in all possible forums. Colleagues, I am actually hoping with many people for broad support for this resolution. Mr De Roover, people and positions are changing. The fact that this is somewhat unclear in the resolution weighs very lightly as a counter-argument, but that is not at the heart of it either. The point is that support from your group is difficult. You actually want to support it, because you agree with the content and now you think it is the right time. That's why I'm holding still hope, who knows? There will be some time until the vote. However, I would ask you to support this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u147	Mr President, I will be very brief. I have signed this proposal with conviction, which was presented by Mr Moutquin. I join his comments on the Israeli Government's supplementary annexation plan. If this plan were to be implemented in the coming days, starting on 1 July as announced, we consider that this annexation would be fatal to the prospects for peace between Palestinians and Israelis, which are, we hope, based on a solution to two States living freely, side by side, in security. It was recalled that this decision contravenes the most fundamental norms that guide international relations, including the Charter of the United Nations. If this decision is implemented, it will destabilize the region with certainty. That is why, in addition to the many arguments already put forward by many other colleagues, we co-signed this resolution and participated in the discussions aimed at improving it. We call on the federal government, in particular the Minister of Foreign Affairs, to conduct firm and vigorous diplomacy to prevent this annexation from taking place and to avoid further destabilization in the region. We hope that these measures will not apply. We still hope that the Israeli Government will give up this additional annexation. Today we want to send a clear and firm signal that we will not accept this Israeli plan of additional annexation of territories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u148	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for supporting our resolution and for the amendments tabled in committee. This resolution is important because, for a very large majority in the Chamber, the annexation of 30% of Westbank is a red line, which should not be exceeded. Moreover, this is in line with previous statements by, for example, Josep Borrell, the High Representative of the European Union. The Minister also made a number of statements in committee. Such voices also sound in Israel. There is therefore a very broad support for counter-measures in the case of annexation. It surprises me very much, and that is why I have asked for the floor, that the N-VA does not join the broad front in Belgium, in Europe and in the rest of the world. I am very sorry about that. The vote in committee was an abstention and Mr De Roover has just announced that it will be a abstention again. That surprises me very much, given the historical sensitivity of the N-VA to the Palestinian case. I regret that the N-VA is so isolated on this issue. I would like to comment on the reasons given by Mr De Roover. He mentioned two of them. Firstly, the text would be too vague and too general. Mr De Roover, I wonder what your reaction would have been if we had proposed concrete countermeasures. You were also free to table amendments if you thought this text was too vague. That was perfect to make the text more concrete. Diplomaticly, it is our intention to keep it fairly general. It seems to us to be much more diplomatically sensible to join earlier statements by the Minister and by Josep Borrell, then to give the coalition freedom, either within the European Union or with like-minded states, to come up with a series of counter-measures in the case of annexation. I am very surprised that you are now asking for it to be filled in much more precisely, even if there is not yet a coalition of this kind. I don't think that's diplomatic. In fact, that argument is not credible. However we interpret it, your argument is not credible. I am sorry to say this, Mr De Roover, for your second argument, namely that it is not clear whether we see these countermeasures as a preventive measure or in response to a possible annexation. Your group has made exactly the same point in committee and we have taken care that this is very clear in the final text: the countermeasures can only be put in place in response to an annexation. Mr De Roover, it cannot be formulated more clearly than in the final text. I quote request 2 of the resolution: 'are a proportionate response to any Israeli annexation of occupied Palestinian territory'. Request 3 states that "possible responses may be a proportionate response to any Israeli annexation of occupied Palestinian territory." So that's obvious, in black and white. As far as the prevention of annexation is concerned, it is clear that initiatives are best taken in the time available to us. The word 'prevention' is therefore included in Question 1, so unfortunately your second argument does not make any sense either. I therefore agree with Mr Crombez that the real reason may be elsewhere. You are, of course, free to clarify this, but I regret, once again, that in your party, with its sensitivity to the search for self-determination of peoples and the fight against injustice, we do not think that the Palestinian people would be clearly affected if 30% of the West Bank were annexed, an ally to oppose us with this very reasonable text. I regret that you are opting for isolation on this dossier and on this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u149	Do you feel addressed, Mr De Roover?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u150	Mr President, you looked so inviting that I was no longer thirsty to ask for the floor. Mr De Vriendt, I would like to leave that easy equivalence, namely that anyone who follows this resolution is not against the Palestinians' right of self-determination, but it is not true. It is not enough just to brew a text; it may go somewhere at some point. In fact, we do not wish to approve a text on which, and you are right to do so, we had doubts during the discussion in committee. Questions have been asked there and we have had doubts about the true interpretation of certain parts. I already explained that earlier. That is why we have turned our original propensity to follow into abstinence. Why abstinence? Indeed, because we continue to follow the principles of the 2015 resolution and do not want to give the impression here that, for example, we are in favour of annexation, that we do not want to give the impression that we would not support the legitimate and legitimate wishes of the Palestinians. There can be no misunderstanding about this, but that you see your own texts as the only way to be attached to Palestinian self-determination, I leave it on your behalf. However, that does not impress me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u151	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the minister and the chairman of the committee for having preceded the discussions on these two resolutions - the one that is postponed and the one that we are discussing now - the hearings of the Ambassador of Palestine and the Ambassador of Israel. This also allows me to recall that the Israeli ambassador himself said that Israel and the Israeli government could be criticized without being called anti-Semitism. The other element is the time for this resolution to be tabled and voted on. I hope that it will be voted on because we are faced with the real risk that the Israeli Government, unilaterally, will decide to act in disregard of the international community and the international rules to implement the so-called "peace plan" dictated by the United States. It is also in contempt, because very little is finally said, of the situation of the people, women, children, young people, both Palestinian and Israeli, who suffer from this situation and who will still suffer if the act is carried out. We must not underestimate the effects not only in Israel and Palestine, but also in the region and perhaps also in our own country. There will indeed be consequences at all levels. I would just like to say that we must also consider this position of the Belgian Parliament, which is not an isolated position. Many parliamentarians have taken initiatives and signed. The European Parliament has been involved. And then there is something that, in the intervention of the ambassador of Israel, shocked me particularly. This is the contempt with which he considered the meeting of European Foreign Ministers under the leadership of Mr Borrell, where 25 out of 27 states felt it was necessary to warn Israel that if he did this, he would go beyond a red line that would have consequences and that would probably involve reactions. This position was also adopted by our Foreign Minister. It's an important element. I believe that this resolution should not only be seen as a signal, but also as a support for the government and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. bravely, but also logically, when we really want respect for international rules - enough has been said about it in another resolution here - they have supported a position that is concerned about the real risk of destabilization of the country, the region and destabilization in our own country, in addition to the people who will suffer from it. That is why I hope this resolution will be widely supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u152	Minister, would you like to react?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u153	Mr. President, I heard everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u154	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u155	Recital/Considerans X • 5 – Kattrin Jadin cs (1292/7) Recital/Considerations Y • 6 – Kattrin Jadin cs (1292/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-25-55-plenair-ip047x.u156	The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we suspend work for half an hour and resume the sitting at 8 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 25 June 2020 at 8 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, June 25, 2020 at 8 p.m.
