ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u1	Minister, there are many concerns about the Hong Kong Security Act adopted last week. The Chinese People's Congress, and not the Parliament in Hong Kong, has passed that law. Separation, subversion and foreign interference are punishable. According to Beijing, this should reduce stability, but abroad, like many inhabitants of the region, it shows the end of Hong Kong and the beginning of direct control from China. Some concepts may seem vague, but in China they strike at everything that is not pleasing to the wishes of the communist regime. Critics fear that this will put an end to freedom of expression, assembly and press, as guaranteed in Hong Kong. The most controversial provisions are that institutions can be set up in Beijing and that agents can be sent. Everything happened outside the local government and pushed through like that. For many, this is a source of concern. It is on top of the unrest surrounding the detection of suspects that had arisen before. How do you respond to that? Has this evolution been discussed within the European Union? What impact will the adoption of the Security Act have on the principle of "one country, two systems" that appears buried by the adoption of the Security Act? Will Belgium within the EU and the UN take action to deal with possible violations of international law and human rights under the Security Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u2	Minister, as the President has just said, China has adopted a new national security law that will strengthen the prosecution of separatism, rebellion and terrorism. This will enable the national government to use its own security services in Hong Kong in the future, whenever necessary. The approval, repeated last year, gave rise to violent demonstrations in Hong Kong. In response to this, the Chinese authorities have already made a lot of arrests. There is a great fear that the new law will restrict democratic freedom in Hong Kong. In practice, the adoption of the Security Act would ensure that so-called subversive actions, including demonstrations, protests and symbolic actions, are punishable. Responses have already been made to the new Security Act, including the High Representative of the EU for Foreign Policy, Mr Borrell. He gave a pretty easy reaction, I have to say. He said that the European Union attaches great importance to maintaining Hong Kong's high level of autonomy and the principle of one country, two systems and that the EU would follow developments in China. The Americans are coming out much stronger and will examine, for example, the possibility of imposing sanctions. I have the following questions, Minister. What is our government's position on this? Will the concerns about the possible consequences of the National Security Act be delivered to China bilaterally or in consultation with other European countries? As far as the European response is concerned, is the United States considering the possibility of sanctions when Hong Kong's autonomy is compromised by this Security Act?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u3	Madam President, Minister, I understand that the European Union Foreign Ministers have already held an exchange of views on relations between the European Union and China and have therefore addressed this particularly serious issue, namely the law on safeguarding national security in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, imposed by the Chinese Government. It is true that, for the Hong Kong democracy camp, this law represents an extremely serious danger and a threat to freedom of expression, which has already been severely restricted by the Beijing authorities, which have also recently repressed various demonstrations. Minister, I would like to know Belgium's position in this regard. Unless I am mistaken, there has not yet been an official condemnation of the repeated attacks in Beijing, which call into question Hong Kong's autonomy. I also wondered what the Council's common position was to firmly remind the Chinese communist leaders of their obligations under the 1984 Sino-British agreement. Moreover, the question of China's violation of international law must really be on the agenda of the summit between the European Union and China, to be held next June. I believe that Belgium, in its capacity as a democratic and free state and as a guarantor of human rights, really needs to position itself unambiguously on the side of the protestors and democratic forces of Hong Kong, and to reaffirm the primacy of international law and freedom of expression and demonstration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u4	Madam President, Minister, I welcome this topical debate, which concerns a matter of great concern. Indeed, it must be noted that, in recent weeks, China has been carrying out violent blows to security and democracy throughout the world and, in this case, to a population which it is supposed to protect and against which it should exercise restraint, particularly in view of the Sino-British Treaty of 1984. I would also like to pay tribute to the courage of the people of Hong Kong, who have demonstrated for the past year, despite the risks, violence and confinements. In the face of the will of the people of Hong Kong to preserve their fundamental freedoms, the Chinese regime has decided to force and pass a law that claims to combat secessionist, subversive and terrorist activities as well as foreign interference in the territory of Hong Kong. In doing so, China violates the Sino-British declaration of 1984, which, in international law, is considered a United Nations treaty concerning the autonomy and fundamental freedoms of Hong Kong. This authoritarian law is illegal and aims to break Hong Kong's aspirations for freedom and democracy. This violation of an international treaty obviously has serious consequences for the people of Hong Kong. The United States has already warned that Hong Kong would no longer be entitled to special commercial treatment since Hong Kong would no longer enjoy the "high degree of autonomy", as expected when it surrendered to China in 1997. I would also like to commend the courageous attitude of the United Kingdom in proposing to grant passports to the people of Hong Kong if China continues to pursue its commitment to implementing the adopted law. The United States also requested an urgent meeting of the United Nations Security Council, but China opposed it on the pretext that it would be China's internal affairs. Minister, my questions are similar to those of my colleagues. Could I know the reaction of Belgium to this new violation of international law on the part of China and, in particular, of the violation of the Sino-British declaration of 1984 which provides for the principle of "one country, two systems" and the maintenance of Hong Kong and its freedoms for a minimum period of 50 years, that is, until 2047? Do you formally condemn this violation of this Sino-British declaration? What is the nature of the discussions in the Security Council today? Are you also calling for a discussion in the Security Council? Like the United States, does the European Union envisage sanctions against China?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u5	Minister, the Chinese People's Congress has recently been massively behind the controversial security law, which makes it even more difficult to maintain opposition in Hong Kong. In Hong Kong, the Security Act prohibits the pursuit of separation, foreign interference and so-called state-undermining activities. It would also make it easier for the police to arrest and prosecute pro-democratic activists, and it could also have China officially set up an office of national security services in Hong Kong for the first time. All this is contrary to the agreement made years ago that Hong Kong would have its own security law, and it is continuing to ban the democratic rights of Hong Kong's citizens. It also recently provided international responses, including by the EU, which expressed concern through Josep Borrell, but did not take any sanctions or initiatives, and the US, where the President withdrew the special trade status between Hong Kong and the US. Firstly, how do you evaluate the approval by the People's Congress of the Hong Kong Security Act? The principle of one country, two systems are being trampled on. What influence do you think the Security Act will have on the principle? Secondly, how do you view the international responses, mainly from the EU and the US? Will Belgium take an official position and condemn the decision on the substance? Thirdly, will you express that official position, once taken, through bilateral consultations or in consultation with other countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, in cooperation with the European Union, my services are following recent developments in Hong Kong with particular attention and concern. In the context of our relations with China, it is important to underline that respect for international agreements, such as the Sino-British Agreement, is crucial for the country's credibility. This issue also damages the confidence of the EU and the Member States in China and its willingness to comply with commitments made. The EU and Belgium are very concerned that this initiative will further increase tensions in Hong Kong. Further protests are indeed expected. Furthermore, many companies from the European Union and Belgium have an interest in stability in Hong Kong, in the rule of law and in the fundamental freedoms at the heart of the Hong Kong model. The defence of the principle of one country, two systems is thus in favour of our economic interests. The European Union remains the most effective channel for us to respond and to enforce China's follow-up to international agreements on one country, two systems. On 22 May, Josep Borrell, the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, issued a declaration on behalf of the European Union and its Member States. This expresses the EU's concern, the desire to maintain the Hong Kong specific status and calls for a democratic debate and consultations with all actors on the drafting of the new Security Act, as provided for in Article 23 of the Hong Kong Basic Law. On 29 May, High Representative Josep Borrell issued a new statement on behalf of the European Union and its Member States, expressing the European Union's serious concerns about the Beijing decision. On 29 May, the situation in Hong Kong was also discussed at the European Union Foreign Ministers' video conference. The EU's concerns will be addressed in the EU-China strategic dialogue on 9 June and in the framework of the EU-China virtual summit, later in June. At this stage, EU sanctions are not envisaged. Continued dialogue with the Chinese authorities and Hong Kong remains the preferred option. Belgium has actively supported the two recent statements of the High Representative for External Relations of the European Union. In addition, on May 25, the Director General of Bilateral Relations had a telephone interview with the Chinese Ambassador. In particular, it stressed the need to respect the international agreements - the Sino-British agreements of 1984 - to preserve the integrity of the One Country, Two Systems, not only in the letter but also in the spirit, to have a democratic debate and consultations with all relevant actors when drafting the new security law. She also recalled the importance of Hong Kong's specific status for Belgian and European companies, as well as our concerns about new tensions in Hong Kong. At the request of the United States and the United Kingdom, and despite China's strong reluctance, recent legislative developments in Hong Kong were discussed in the Security Council on 29 May, under various headings. According to the British position, the situation in Hong Kong deserved to be addressed, since the Sino-British agreement of 1984 had been deposited and registered with the United Nations. Like the French and German interventions, the Belgian intervention also referred to the main points of the recent statements by the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and the Security Policy Josep Borrell. Our country also called for dialogue and respect for human rights. Many members, including Belgium, therefore called for a constructive use of the UN Security Council as a format. It is crucial that the Council remains a forum for dialogue. I can assure you that my services will continue to monitor closely the further developments in Hong Kong and their potential impact on human rights, on the security of our citizens and on our economic interests. I would add that I am and will be very attentive to the evolution of our relations with China in terms of the situation we have discussed today, as well as the lessons to be learned from the VOCID-19 crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u7	Madam President, Minister, I would like to thank you for your reply, which was very detailed and which made it clear to us that Belgium is a member of the international organisations, both the European Union and the United Nations, and that it has endorsed the concerns about respect for human rights and dialogue. My concern remains the following:one country,two systems must be shown in the facts. When the safety law is put into effect, there is a great deal of room for undermining it. When China is allowed to set up its own institutions and send agents on the spot, the question is what remains of them in the facts. I would like Belgium, together with the European Union, to monitor this closely. The European Union has indeed adopted a rather easy attitude. It does not want sanctions because it does not want to affect Hong Kong in its activities and also because China is sometimes an ally in certain matters, such as climate issues. However, we must ensure that we do not fall between hammers and anvils in international politics, which would mean that we would lose sight of them. The United States has reacted forcefully, although I take that reaction with a grain of salt. I believe that Trump is working on his campaign and that China is trying to frame the cause of the corona crisis, although the approach of the United States is not effective. I would therefore like to make a comment. Nevertheless, Minister, I urge you to follow the dossier closely. It is a good thing that the head of bilateral relations has been in contact with the Ambassador, but also that you yourself can express your concern to the Ambassador, which we Members of Parliament will also do. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. You are right to stress that stability is very important there, not least for economic interests but also for human rights. The principle of one country, two systems must be supported not only by words but also by deeds. You also said that the European Union is the most effective level of action. I can follow you in part, but so far the European Union has only given a fairly simple signal. If we see that the situation there is escalating and that this important principle is not being respected, then Belgium must urge the European Union to take a firmer position. We are following this closely and I hope that we will draw the necessary conclusions when we see that the principle of one country, two systems is not respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answer. I therefore hear that the Union has reacted with the voice of Joseph Borrell. I also hear that Belgium has spoken directly through its Director of Bilateral Affairs vis-à-vis China. And Belgium also supported the UK's legitimate response to the Security Council on 29 May. I therefore believe that China has clearly crossed a red line by denying international law and by reprimanding peaceful demonstrations and directly attacking democracy in Hong Kong. I think it is time today for the European Union to consider sanctions which, I hope, can really put pressure on the Chinese communist regime to stop its deliberate attacks on democracy in Hong Kong.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u10	Mr Minister, I also appreciated our bilateral approach to China, the steps taken by the European Union, and then this debate, which was finally made possible, even though these elements are among the various points of the Security Council. I think that we are faced with a great power which wants to assert itself on the international stage - and that is very good - but which is doing so more and more aggressively, more and more imperially by violating international law. The examples that await international security today are extremely numerous. We see what is happening in the China Sea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, the Uighurs, China's responsibility in an agency of the global epidemic, the willingness to take control of a whole range of global resources, its willingness to also take control of a whole range of key companies in our country, its manipulation of social networks... The list would be very, very long to list. It's time for us to keep our language firm. You have raised a great deal of our economic interests. Of course, it is important, but what is important is to continue to refer primarily to freedoms, democracy, a model that is busy shrinking all over the world. Hong Kongers show every day that one can develop a prosperous, free, democratic country while being Chinese. It is a model that can certainly inspire China, not the other way around, which would be tragic for all of us. I would like to stress the firmness of the dialogue with China, since it regularly seeks to intimidate countries that express opinions that are contrary to its own. Taking sanctions or, in any case, measures against it would be a firm measure of which we are capable. Indeed, China never hesitates to brandish the threat of retaliation against third countries that sometimes only ask for transparency as to the origin of the epidemic. We know Australia's example, but there are other cases. We must be able to stand up to such an aggressive regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u11	Minister, I would like to thank you for the answer and for keeping up with developments on the ground, expressing your concern and continuing dialogue. You also emphasise that the EU remains the main channel for demanding respect for the laws in force and for the rights of the people on the ground. You admit, however, that confidence has been compromised, and I dare say so again. It is therefore perhaps time to knock harder on the table on Hong Kong, strongly condemn the repression and attacks on its own people and consider the scenario of sanctions. Otherwise, we will continue to react in a domestic and non-committal way. The people and the many western and Flemish entrepreneurs in Hong Kong, who follow the situation with a frightened heart, are counting on your support. Please don't let them down.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u12	Minister, my first question concerns the demonstrations in Lebanon that have not ceased during the period of confinement. They are due in particular to widespread corruption, according to the demonstrators, in the political class but also to a catastrophic financial situation, to the extent that Lebanon has sought assistance from donors such as the IMF and the European Union. The Lebanese Social Movement denounces the conditionalities related to these financial promises formulated by the donors at the said CEDRE Conference in April 2018 in Paris, which has already been discussed in this committee. Indeed, the economic reforms envisaged, by favouring the privatisation of public services, seriously affect the population while preserving the interests of a political class widely regarded as corrupt. The social crisis is likely to worsen in Lebanon, particularly in the form of a failure to repay to the IMF. Mr Minister, is Lebanon's financial situation under discussion in Europe? What position does Belgium stand in this case? Is a cancellation of Lebanon's debt with the European Union or Belgium envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u13	Mr Moutquin, the Lebanese situation continues to be monitored by the working groups of the European Council. Moreover, as part of the European Union's support - in response to the VOCID-19 pandemic - to its southern neighbourhood, €366 million is earmarked for Lebanon. Belgium supports this action. The European Union's support must go hand in hand with efforts on the Lebanese side to undertake the necessary structural socio-economic reforms, as foreseen in the Joint Declaration of the Economic Conference for Development, through reforms and with business (CEDRE), held on 6 April 2018 in Paris. In this context, the fight against corruption and the promotion of good governance are major challenges, as stressed by the Lebanese government itself. I was also able to discuss these aspects with the Lebanese Prime Minister and his Minister of Foreign Affairs during my visit to Lebanon last February. The European Union and Belgium will work constructively to implement the Diab government's emergency recovery plan adopted on 30 April and welcomed the announced cooperation between Lebanon and the IMF. Rather, it is the financial institutions such as the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) - and not the European Union as such - that invest in Lebanon in the form of loans. With regard to the possible cancellation of the bilateral debt, I would refer you to my colleague in Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u14	Mr Minister, thank you for your detailed answer and for the correction to the European part of my question. I agree with you on the need for structural efforts in the area of corruption. Having said that, without wishing to open an ideological debate, I consider that history has shown the failure of such efforts when they involve the privatisation of public services in developing countries. We must therefore opt for other types of aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u15	Madam President, Minister, since 6 May, no humanitarian ships have been present in international waters between Libya, Italy and Malta to rescue migrants in distress. The Alan Kurdi of the NGO Sea-Eye was detained by the Italian authorities as well as the Aita Mari chartered by another NGO. This lack of rescue vessels is worrying in that there is an increase in attempts to cross migrants, which raises fears of new tragedies in Libya. Contrary to what many are trying to suggest, this lack of humanitarian ships has no effect in terms of decreasing crossings, but rather contributes to increasing the number of victims. In fact, it is merchant ships that, in accordance with international law, have been rescuing migrants for the past few weeks. For example, 78 migrants had been rescued by a merchant ship and were now waiting to land. The Maltese Foreign Minister alerted the situation by saying that, in the first four months of the year, no fewer than 1,200 migrants had been taken over by Malta, almost four times as many as last year. The Mediterranean countries now refuse any landing on their soil by asking that the European solidarity distribution so often promised but never carried out be finally implemented. I would like to remind you, Minister, that on 28 November this Parliament voted a motion for a resolution on Belgium's participation in a distribution of migrants rescued in the Mediterranean. Mr Minister, are there any urgent discussions at European level to remedy this lack of potentially dramatic rescue operations? Is a rescue mission financed by the European Union envisaged? Does Belgium, in accordance with the above-mentioned resolution, intend to take any initiatives with a view to the equitable distribution of migrants rescued in the Mediterranean Sea?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u16	Madam President, Mr Moutquin, the migration situation and the current migration challenges were discussed at the video conference of the Ministers of the Interior and Migration on 28 April. A new ministerial videoconference is scheduled for early June. Similarly, Member States maintain regular contacts at technical level concerning migratory flows in the Mediterranean Sea and rescues at sea. The VOCID-19 pandemic complicates the disembarkation of migrants and the implementation of the Malta Declaration, which establishes a temporary solidarity mechanism. As you know, Belgium has not agreed to this declaration because of the high number of asylum applications it has been receiving for some time and because of the saturation of its reception network. Operation IRINI, which was launched last April and will have to succeed Operation Sophia, will have the main task of enforcing the arms embargo in Libya and may, incidentally, fight against the smuggling of migrants. In this context, it may be required to carry out rescue operations, in accordance with international law, but such operations are not part of its mandate. One issue that is currently a problem in the debate on rescue at sea is the disembarkation and relocation of migrants after their rescue. For the time being, these issues are being resolved on an ad hoc basis, not without difficulties. This is why Belgium has long advocated structural reform of the common European asylum system, a reform that takes account of the objective migratory pressure faced by the various Member States and provides for solidarity mechanisms for the most affected Member States, including relocations. Although our country did not subscribe to Malta's declaration, it recently joined a group of Member States willing to relocate unaccompanied foreign minors (MENA) from Greece. Eighteen MENA will be relocated to our country in the near future. The precise timetable has yet to be fixed, but it should be possible to do so quite quickly. The above-mentioned effort may seem modest, but it takes into account the reality of our reception centres, which are currently saturated, as well as of an unknown reality, namely that Belgium is the third largest Member State hosting MENA in absolute numbers (1,220), just behind Germany (2,690) and Greece (3,330). Belgium is even the second largest in Europe, behind Greece, per capita.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u17	Mr Minister, I fully agree with you on the need for a common and solidarity plan and a new mechanism at European level. We can have the same view on some solutions. On the other hand, I would like to go back to your remarks that Belgium did not wish to join the resolution. No, it was the government that did not want to join the Maltese distribution mechanism, since Parliament, on the other hand, voted a resolution in its favour. The saturation of reception centres is a debate that emerges from the question only concerning persons currently detained on merchant ships. I would remind you, however, that the saturation in Greece is 700%. It is 96% in Belgium. Our efforts may be more important, even though we have taken a first step by agreeing to a distribution of minors in Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u18	Mr. Moutquin, the International Day to Combat Homophobia, Lesbophobia, Biphobia and Transphobia, known as IDAHOBIT (International Day Against Homophobia, Biphobia, Intersexism and Transphobia), is an important day for our country, given our commitment to combat discrimination in all its forms, including discrimination based on sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression and sexual characteristics (SOGIESC – sexual orientation, gender identity and expression and sexual characteristics). I myself issued a press release highlighting the importance of IDAHOBIT. The communiqué aims to help break the silence surrounding discrimination based on SOGIESC. Especially at the time of the VOCID-19, it is necessary to draw attention to the situation of people who are already prejudiced. I am thinking in particular of access to medical and social services and civil rights. It is in this spirit that I have instructed the Belgian diplomatic representations to devote appropriate attention to IDAHOBIT in their jurisdictions. Several planned initiatives, such as parades, seminars and others, have been postponed or cancelled due to the pandemic. I instructed our representations to raise the rainbow flag if possible and to make it known through social media. I have also encouraged our representations to cooperate with other embassies, in particular the representation of the European Union, in order to be able to amplify the message. Although it is too early to draw up a detailed assessment of the actions of our diplomatic representations, it is clear that the instructions have been largely followed. I would also like to recall that our country is integrating the Coalition for Equal Rights, an intergovernmental coalition created in 2016 by more than 40 countries, including Belgium, which share the same ideas about the fight for equal rights for the LGBTI community. On 17 May Belgium endorsed the joint declaration on the impact of VOCID-19 on this community. Belgium uses bilateral and multilateral contacts at all appropriate times to raise awareness of our partners in the fight against discrimination, including discrimination based on SOGIESC. May I remind you that the role of the United Nations Security Council, where our country currently sits, is primarily to maintain international peace and security. The Security Council deals only with matters threatening them. The topic of discrimination is dealt with in the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly in New York and in the framework of the Human Rights Council in Geneva. Although our country is not currently a member of the Human Rights Council and does not yet have the right to vote, it can participate in the discussions, which of course it does. In addition, there is the important mechanism of the universal periodic review that allows United Nations member States to explain their human rights record and make mutual recommendations. In this area, Belgium regularly makes recommendations on discrimination based on SOGIESC and other forms of discrimination.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answer and for your work because I know that you are quite attentive to this question. I encourage you to pay particular attention to what is happening in Morocco. You're talking about the contacts that have been made. I'll ask your colleague, Mr. De Croo, for a reflection on aid in terms of cooperation. Why not reorient them to organizations that fight homophobia and all sexual discrimination in this country? I would also like to draw your attention to some countries, such as Uganda or the Central African Republic, where anal tests are still being carried out, when they are considered inhuman treatment. Secondly, I never thought I should have said that a few years ago, but I would like to draw your attention to a European country. The situation in Poland is catastrophic. We know that the PiS party of the current ruling president is in a crazy race to homophobia. A few days ago, he even compared homosexuality and paedophilia. These are unacceptable statements in the European Union of 2020. Mr Minister, I am counting on you to advocate sanctions against the Polish government, which is obviously running for extreme right-wing voting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u20	Madam President, Minister, in the provisional twelfths of April-May-June 2020, additional appropriations worth EUR 2.2 million were requested for the maintenance of the Belgian heritage abroad. This would be part of the Masterplan 2020 on the real estate managed by your administration, the FPS Foreign Affairs. In 2019 the embassy building in the American capital Washington was also put for sale. The building could raise EUR 25 million. According to De Standaard, that project was led by Mr Fontinoy. The embassy was supposed to move to two apartments in downtown Washington early this year. These apartments were purchased in 2016. Why was an additional EUR 2.2 million requested in the provisional twelfths of April-May-June 2020? Can you explain more about the contents of that Master Plan? Who's responsible for that? Who's responsible for selling the embassy building in Washington? Has the embassy building been sold by now? If so, to whom and at what price? If the building is already sold, what happened to the proceeds from the sale? For what price are the apartments to which the embassy will move purchased in 2016? Has the embassy moved to those apartments by now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u21	The appropriations for the building shall be calculated on the basis of payment needs. The EUR 2.2 million will be added to the 2018 budget, in liquidation of the last approved budget. In 2020, the appropriations amount to EUR 26,009,000 instead of EUR 17,148,000 in 2018. The Buildings Fund 2020 Master Plan is approved by the Executive Committee of the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. The decision to sell the chancery in Washington was taken by the Minister of Foreign Affairs following a favourable opinion from the Treasury Inspectorate. The building was sold to the People's Republic of Vietnam for $23 million in 2019. Part of the proceeds are intended to finance the building fund, the surplus has been transferred to the Treasury. The office floor was not purchased for 6,850,000 dollars or 5,800,000 euros. The move took place in mid-April and the installation is being carried out gradually to comply with current health measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u22	Mr. Secretary, I'll check everything again. The calculations have been made: if I get it right, the proceeds of the sale are a lot higher than what was paid for the new apartments. However, I would like to ask myself the following question: you say that the planned budget is EUR 26 million, compared to EUR 17 million earlier. I will look at where the difference of EUR 9 million comes from, but thank you for your specific answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u23	Madam President, Minister, the Trump administration announced unexpectedly that the United States will withdraw from the Open Skies Treaty in six months' time. The US is thus stepping out of the agreement to regulate the free movement of unarmed surveillance aircraft between 35 countries, including our own. Minister Pompeo gives the concrete reason that Russia would violate and abuse the treaty in order to achieve its expansionist goals. So would Russia, for example. do not grant access to airspace over the occupied territories of Abkhazia, South Ossetia and Crimea. I have the following questions because we are concerned about them. Firstly, what concrete impact can the American withdrawal from the treaty have on our country and on the proper functioning of NATO? Secondly, unlike the INF Convention, Russia decided to stay in Open Skies. Is there a danger that the balance within the treaty will be lost after the departure of one great power? Thirdly, Germany is trying to mediate and NATO ambassadors are meeting urgently. We joined a joint declaration. Washington leaves the door open to stay in the agreement if Russia changes its attitude. What diplomatic initiatives will you take or what diplomatic initiatives will our country join? Shall we exert bilateral pressure on either side? Fourthly, how often has Russia used the Open Skies Treaty in recent years to fly over and monitor our territory? Finally, our country is part of a consortium of nine countries operating with an Open Skies certified Canadian C-130. How frequently have they used the Convention in recent years to monitor other countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u24	Madam President, Minister, there are no longer countless blows to multilateralism by Donald Trump, including the latest episode. I really hope that the American elections will allow the United States to elect a new President who is more respectful of multilateral agreements and who will be willing to promote them. Indeed, everyone knows that it is through multilateralism that peace and stability can be guaranteed throughout the world. However, the ambassadors of NATO member countries were recently convened for an urgent meeting, following the unilateral announcement of the US withdrawal from the Open Skies Treaty. This agreement is one of the greatest advances at the international level in promoting transparency in the military field. It entered into force in 2002 to verify the military movements and arms control measures of some 30 signatory countries, including Belgium. The States Parties thus undertake to submit their territory to peaceful aerial overflights by the other signatory States. This is a form of contradictory observation accepted by each of those States. Minister, what position did our country stand at this NATO emergency meeting? According to the United States, some members of the treaty would no longer play the game. What is your analysis in this regard? Do you share the opinion expressed by the President of the United States? What are or would be the consequences of the American withdrawal?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u25	Mr Boukili and Mrs Jadin are not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u26	Madam President, the objective of the Open Skies Treaty is to increase transparency and confidence between members through observation flights. Each country shall first decide on a national basis whether it wishes to remain a member of the Convention. The Benelux is considered to be one contracting party under Open Skies. Consequently, the positions on the Treaty with the Netherlands and Luxembourg are closely aligned. The controls are carried out jointly by the Benelux Arms Control Agency. On Friday, May 22, the United States announced its withdrawal from the Open Sky Treaty, taking into account a period of six months before a final withdrawal. A commitment has already been made by the other Member States parties to continue the implementation of the Treaty, even after the departure of the United States. Indeed, the Open Sky Treaty establishes a clear and formal framework for the implementation of observation flights. This framework remains in force and will continue to apply in the event of the withdrawal of a State party. Moreover, since each State party had the same rights and obligations, the eventual departure of a State would not jeopardize the balance. As always in this case, NATO is primarily a form of transatlantic consultation. This was also the case at the Council meeting of 22 May 2020 in which allies held consultations on disarmament, including the Open Skies Treaty. At the NATO-NAC meeting on Friday 22 May 2020, the Benelux countries made a joint statement, pronounced by the Netherlands as the current Benelux President. The statement expressed regret at the departure of the United States and the importance of the value of the treaty. Although Benelux shares US concerns about Russia's implementation of the Treaty's provisions, the Open Sky Treaty remains a crucial element in the confidence-building process, which began some ten years ago, in order to increase transparency and security across the Euro-Atlantic area. Benelux will continue to implement the Open Sky Treaty, which represents an obvious added value for our conventional arms control architecture and our common security. We also made this point of view vis-à-vis our American ally, and I myself raised this issue in a bilateral interview. Benelux therefore reaffirms that this Treaty remains functional and useful. As regards the implementation issues, we will continue to engage with Russia, as agreed between allies, as well as with other European partners, in order to resolve outstanding issues such as undue restrictions on flights over Kaliningrad. Benelux continues to call on Russia to lift these restrictions, and we are continuing our dialogue with all parties. As chairman of the Open Skies Consultative Commission and the future chairman of the Open Skies Review Conference, Belgium will continue its dialogue with Russia and the other Open Skies Treaty Parties, as has been the case in both bilateral and multilateral fora in recent months. Between 2002 and 2019, Russia used a quota for conducting observation flights over the Benelux countries. The exceptions were in 2011 when no flight was operated and in 2017 when Russia operated two flights. Since 2013, Belgium has not been part of the group of nine countries working together to conduct active flights. Our country hasn't operated any active flights since. Belgium was the lead nation for the Pod Group which was dissolved in 2013. The Pod observation system was transferred to Canada and is now stationed in France. Canada and France use the Pod in combination with their C-130. Recently, the Benelux countries decided to resume active flights under the Open Skies Treaty. The appropriate modalities for this are currently being worked out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. We regret the withdrawal of America. America is more than the current President Trump. There'll be presidents after Trump. I hope that all parties realise that America is an ally of Belgium and of Europe. I would like to emphasise that once again. We have good cooperation with America in the military and other fields. It is therefore a pity that the current US President unilaterally decides to break or threaten to break the good cooperation that exists. I believe that our country and Europe have every advantage in establishing bilateral contacts to ensure that the close relationship with America remains, despite the temperament of the current presidency. We must ensure that the good alliance we have with America is maintained.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u28	Mr Minister, I thank you for your replies because they indicated that Belgium and Benelux wished to recall that it was necessary to pursue this Treaty fully and to continue the dialogue with Russia. More generally, I think that this is really a wise way; indeed, when we see the emergence and sometimes the dangers that China can represent, it is likely that Russia could play a role in the future, as a buffer state, and as one of the partners that could allow us to act differently on China than on a seule Europe. You also noted, which is very important to me, the word "trust". We don't trust Donald Trump anymore. We still have confidence in the American people and the American state, but Donald Trump's unilateral attitudes and decisions no longer allow us to have confidence. This therefore poses a problem for the management of NATO. Indeed, if one of NATO's largest partner countries continues to be managed by such a versatile president, who is so disrespectful of his allies and his agreements, I believe that at some point, as other actors, such as President Macron or other NATO Member States, have said, we will come to the question of whether NATO is not at a point where its survival is at stake.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u29	Minister, the European Union has been subpoenaed before the Amsterdam Court by the Foundation for Human Rights for Eritreans in a case concerning forced labour. The European Union committed EUR 80 million through the EU Emergency Trust Fund for Africa for a road construction project in Eritrea. The project provides for the rehabilitation of roads between Eritrea and Ethiopia. The Eritrean government, however, uses forced labour within the Eritrean national service for the project. For this purpose, boys and girls are used, both for road construction and administration, as well as military service. There's no time limit attached to that. These boys and girls are therefore in total uncertainty and are actually being abused in numerous projects. The conditions under which the Eritrean population is forced into national service have therefore been described by the UN Commission on Human Rights as a system of forced labour, slavery and even a crime against humanity. The organisation calls for an end to EU funding and points out that the European Union states in project documents that it is aware of the use of conscripts by state-owned companies. That's remarkable, isn't it? In project documents, the European Union states that it only provides funding for the purchase of materials and not for labour, so that no monitoring of working conditions is necessary. That's a strange position. Do you agree with the statement of the Foundation Human Rights for Eritreans that forced labour is used in the road construction project in Eritrea? Do you agree with the statement of the Foundation for Human Rights for Eritreans that through its funding the European Union is normalising and supporting forced labour? Do you think that the European Union should review its funding and stop the project? Will you convey the Belgian position on this within the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u30	It is not for me to comment on a dossier relating to an ongoing legal procedure. In general, Belgium has for years been concerned about the human rights situation in Eritrea. Belgium has joined other European Member States to provide, very recently, strict monitoring mechanisms for EU-funded programmes and projects, as well as for a regular thorough analysis of the impact of the European Union's dual approach. Belgium has always taken a critical but constructive position with regard to Eritrea. We are not against the implementation of certain EUTF projects in Eritrea, but guarantees regarding respect for human rights must be respected. Belgium advocates the continuation of a frank and constructive dialogue with the Eritrean authorities, in particular with regard to the human rights situation in the country, including the issue of national military services. To this end, last February, our country urged Eritrea to cooperate with the UN Special Rapporteur on the human rights situation in Eritrea. Given the worrying human rights situation in Eritrea, Belgium actively supported the extension of the Special Rapporteur's mandate in June 2019. Belgium also regularly intervenes on Eritrea during the Human Rights Council, as was the case during the review of Eritrea's universal periodic review in January 2019. In particular, in the EUTF, Belgium takes a moderate position and stresses the interest in certain projects, while clearly defending other projects, given the stagnation of the democratic process in Eritrea.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is important that with the UN we actively support the human rights mechanisms that exist, no matter what Belgium has done. We must continue to raise the issue of the worrying violation of human rights. We must dare to raise this particular problem at the embassy here or there on the spot, because this military service was condemned by the UN Commission on Human Rights and European Union funds are also used in the framework of the Emergency Trust Fund for Africa, which is funded by several Member States. It is not clear to me whether Belgium is also contributing to this. We have always put forward worthy work, including within the framework of the SDG, and in New York we have stressed the importance we attach to it and stressed the fact that Belgium is a precursor to it. It is therefore important that we should go further and dare to raise this concrete project at the European Commission and at the embassy. After all, this service is certainly being tested.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u32	Minister, in these corona times, many Belgians and entrepreneurs express their gratitude to everyone who is committed to keeping the country running, for example by offering a flower or a delicious meal. Just as it is happening in Belgium, it is also happening abroad through our embassies and consulates. Brussels would have informed diplomatic posts that they could spend part of their annual budget on charity. Through social media, we are now witnessing various initiatives taken by our embassies and consulates. For example, we can see that the Belgian embassy in Washington has delivered meals to local American hospitals on several occasions in order to encourage them or that the embassy in Kuala Lumpur provides waffles to two refugee camps. I have a few questions on this, Minister. Do all diplomatic posts take such initiatives or are they left to the discretion of the posts themselves? Is there an overarching strategy for these corona charity actions? If so, what are the directives? How does the coordination of initiatives between the Foreign Affairs Office and diplomatic posts proceed? Can you confirm that these actions are financed from an already existing and committed budget rather than from new resources? If so, what budget are these charitable actions financed and what is the total spending of all embassies together? Finally, the diplomatic posts themselves decide on the use and allocation of these funds for charity or would it be preferable, for example, to advise on supporting sustainable actions with a focus on vulnerable countries or groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u33	Mrs Van Bossuyt, instructions have been sent to all our posts that allow our deployed staff to use part of their remuneration for active representation to support certain solidarity actions with Belgian visibility. The final decision will be left to each of our posts. This active representation shall be paid in advance to the agent responsible for the use of this envelope once a year. The unurbanised amount must be repaid. The guidelines given to our posts must ensure that they support local humanitarian actions in the medical and health sectors. This is a visible proof of Belgian solidarity, which strengthens the image of our country. The coordination of the operations envisaged by our posts is ensured by contact by e-mail between our posts and the central administration. These actions are financed by an already existing and committed budget. This is the part of the postal fee "preliminary intervention for reception costs" which has to be accounted for annually. Staff seconded may devote up to 20% of the funds concerned to supporting such actions. The total annual budget for this envelope for all our posts is EUR 5 900 000. The postal heads shall be responsible for supervising the control of the use of the means of representation of their agents. The expenditure of both the postal head and the staff deployed shall be audited annually by the HR department of the central administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I had also asked whether this would support a particular type of action. You said that it was about the medical and health sector, and I assume that the money should go mainly there. A second element is that it is important for several local service providers to be able to provide these services effectively. Therefore, the same local service provider should not be given the task over and over again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u35	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Moutquin's 55006377C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u36	Madam President, Minister, the subject has been dealt with very extensively in this committee a while ago. You replied in great detail at that time. However, your answer provoked much more reactions than before the debate, in particular about the difficulties Belgians are experiencing in Morocco to return. That is why I would like to repeat a number of questions. Since the closure of the airspace due to the sanitary condition, 3,050 Belgian Moroccans were repatriated to our country. I submitted the question last week, she's a few days old. In addition, I would like to ask you how many Belgian Moroccans are still stuck in Morocco. We're about two weeks away. How many of them are eligible to be repatriated on the basis of certain criteria? Can the Minister also indicate which repatriation flights from Morocco are still planned? What will be the capacity of that? Finally, how does our embassy in Rabat communicate with the Belgian Moroccans who still cannot be repatriated? Have they all been informed about the current situation and the possibilities with the planned repatriation flights?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u37	Madam President, my question is very much related to this, but I would like to highlight another aspect. As Mr Crombez points out, thousands of Belgian-Moroccan compatriots have not yet found their way to our country for the time being because of their double status. In addition, we also receive messages from blocked motorhomes, which after months in lockdown are still required to stay on site. Many of these people do not want to leave their vehicle and wish to obtain a passage to the mainland of Europe, as is the case in the Netherlands. That's why I have some questions for you. Do you have any idea how many people are in that position? How many such questions of repatriation have come to our posts? What advice is given to these people? Do they serve on site or can they be repatriated, possibly without their motorhome? The Dutch embassy put in a ferry to Genoa in Italy to disarm their blocked compatriots, the British did the same with a ferry to Malaga. Is there any possibility for our posts to set up a similar transport for the blocked motorhomes or to obtain places on a transport organised by one of our European partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u38	Mr Cogolati is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u39	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I informed you in detail last week on the general question of repatriations from Morocco. The exact number of Belgian Moroccans in Morocco is impossible to determine. We encourage registration on the Travellers Online platform, but not everyone subscribes. Currently there are 500 Belgians registered for Morocco on Travellers Online. Moreover, many Belgian Moroccans travel with Moroccan documents, including through the Moroccan border authorities, which means that we do not have a representative number. About 4,500 Belgians filed a file. It's estimated that there's about 2,400 left. They meet the criteria according to their own declarations. Since 2 June, facilitated commercial flights have been deployed from Casablanca. Capacity depends on the airline and has so far been 189 passengers per flight. On 2 and 6 June the first flights took place and the following are scheduled for 9, 13 and 16 June. In view of the extension of the lockdown measures in Morocco, we may continue to use this method. On the basis of the completed form, 2,600 people appeared, mostly in connection with already known files. In response to the questions put to me by Mr Cogolati, I would like to deny that TUI fly did not contact the people who had been notified by our embassy. Currently, demand exceeds supply. The response time of the Moroccan authorities was quite long, especially with regard to the first flight, as the latter checked all the names on several occasions. In order to act as quickly as possible, TUI fly communicated additional names to ensure that the aircraft were properly filled. In addition, some people do not respond immediately to telephone calls and are therefore contacted later. The logistical problems encountered in Morocco, where travel between cities is still not allowed, make it almost impossible to accelerate the pace of work. In addition, the administrative processing of data and reservations by TUI fly precludes the possibility of organizing two weekly flights. We therefore asked TUI fly if it was not possible to plan larger aircraft. No official information has been received to date on the date of the potential reopening of Morocco's borders. We hope to learn more once the government has made a new assessment of the situation on June 10, when the end of confinement is scheduled. Belgians who send an e-mail to our embassy will in principle all receive an answer. The communication about future flights is made by telephone to the people we know and by e-mail and open communication to the other Belgians. Mrs Van Bossuyt, I come to your question about the stranded camping cars. The Belgian embassy in Rabat knows about about 50 campers and other Belgian vehicles still staying in Morocco. These people were offered the opportunity to come back with the docked flights. Understandably many of them didn't want to leave their vehicle behind. Our embassy contacted the Netherlands, France, Spain, the United Kingdom and Italy, who put in a ferry. In view of the small number of Belgians, it is not possible to place a ferry yourself. Thanks to these contacts several campers could already leave. The embassy also invited the campers to inform themselves at private companies to find out which ferries are leaving. It is also recommended to move to the north of Morocco as soon as possible. To this end, the embassy requests the necessary permits from the Moroccan government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, but allow me to make some critical comments. The figure of 3,500 dates from three weeks ago. Now that's 2,400. You literally said: 'People who e-mail to the embassy will all receive an answer in principle'. I think that this is indeed the principle, but in the facts this is not true. There was a phone number that was very unreachable for most people. There was no response. I would like to ask that this be looked at again in the Foreign Office. These are sometimes people who have been detained in Morocco since February. The pace with which people are repatriated is very slow. It takes a very long time. We discussed this very extensively in committee in May. You said at the time that what Foreign Affairs and the Embassy are doing for the people there is well organized. However, most reactions show that there are a lot of problems to date. I make this critical remark above all to make it clear to you that this is not just about question and answer in Parliament. There are still 2,400 people on the scene. It's really necessary to look at the M.O. there. The principle that everyone gets an answer and clarity is the right principle, but it hasn't been right for weeks. I ask you to have this reviewed by helping the Foreign Office and those people. For some people, there are no prospects. Thank you for the information on the upcoming flights. I suggest the State Department give all that information to the people. After all, it's been so long. Everyone's looking, calling and e-mailing everywhere, making it even more confusing. It would be good if there were a stable and reliable source at the Foreign Office that could give the actual, uncut information to those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u41	Mr Minister, you say that certain European countries, namely the Netherlands, France, Spain and Italy, have been asked to take Belgians with a motorhome. I have received emails from people who refer to the Dutch and the British, who are indeed taking such an initiative. However, they are clearly not aware that they themselves also have the opportunity to get their vehicle back home in this way. As Mr Crombez said, it is very important that the information flows to the people on the ground. Thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u42	Debates of the European Parliament 55006505C by Mrs de Laveleye will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u43	Madam President, Minister, on April 24, 2020, the President of the Piedmont region sent you a request for a two-month B-LiFE intervention in the region to assist in the completion of diagnostic tests. At the time of writing this question, a few days ago, the Piedmont region was still waiting for an answer from you. As a reminder, B-LiFE is an emergency response service, based on a rapidly deployable biological laboratory in crisis areas, which is supported by the European Space Agency (ESA). UCL's Centre for Applied Molecular Technologies (CTMA) coordinates this service. During the Ebola outbreak, B-LiFE was successfully deployed to Guinea from 2014 to 2015. The Belgian Government had supported the deployment of B-LiFE as part of the activation of the B-FAST mechanism. With regard to this request from Italy, it is important to know that funding is directly provided by ESA and that the activation of B-FAST is not necessary. On 25 May, you received a letter from a member of ESA's management confirming its support for this request for intervention by the President of Piedmont. According to B-LiFE officials, this aid from B-LiFE in the Piedmont region will in no way diminish the capacity to combat VOCID-19 in Belgium. I am surprised at your lack of responsiveness to a Member State, at the very moment when European solidarity must be fully expressed. Despite the fact that the crisis is partly behind us, Piedmont still seems to need the assistance it demands. Minister, when and how do you intend to respond to this urgent request from the authorities in the Piedmont region at a time when we still need so much European solidarity?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u44	Madam President, Mr Dallemagne, following the request for assistance from the President of the Piedmont region, I immediately contacted the various operational departments concerned within the federal structure. The latter met several times to try to draw up a proposal for aid. Unfortunately, after almost a month of analysis and a detailed review of capabilities, it was found that they did not have the necessary resources for such a mission under B-FAST. First of all, the B-LiFE module is integrated into our national testing strategy. However, the technical standards for the operation of the laboratory do not allow operations to be carried out at several locations at the same time at the present time. Secondly, the B-LiFE module is integrated into the Belgian civil protection capabilities which have been fully mobilised throughout the national territory. In this way, the operational support of Belgian civil protection, indispensable for the deployment and transport of the laboratory, could not be provided. In view of these logistical and capacity constraints, shared by other relevant departments, the interdisciplinary working group in charge of the national testing strategy could not give a favourable opinion on the aid requested. The B-FAST mechanism could therefore not be activated. However, I have since learned that the laboratory had found another solution in collaboration with the European Space Agency for a two-month demonstration mission of its capabilities in Piedmont. This mission is expected to begin shortly. I am therefore very pleased to learn that the B-LiFE module will be able to be mobilised in the Piedmont region and support its inhabitants in the test they are going through. This mission will demonstrate Belgian solidarity. Moreover, the value of European cooperation, at the time when it is called into question, is re-enforced.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u45	Minister, thank you. I am obviously glad that we can deploy B-LiFE in Piedmont. What surprises me is this initial assessment which seemed to indicate that we did not have the means, that we had to mobilise the B-FAST mechanism. Obviously, that was not the case. I think we could have deployed this material much earlier. I regret this delay, but I am pleased that we will show our solidarity with another Member State of the European Union, which has been severely affected by the epidemic, even with a delay. I will pay attention to the results of this mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u46	Madam President, Minister, the government decided to open its borders with France and the Netherlands on Saturday 30 May to visit the Whitsuntide family or take a day trip abroad. However, chaos and ambiguity arose at the Belgian-French border. France communicated that the borders will not be opened until 15 June. The border mayors also react surprised in the Netherlands. Those who wanted to visit their family or had planned a day trip were there for the trouble and could return home. Is it true that at that time you were still having conversations with your French colleague to open the borders to family visits? Have discussions already been held with the Dutch and German colleagues on this matter? Wasn't this government communication premature? When will non-essential movement borders be opened?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u47	Mrs. Samyn already referred to May 30th, the start of Pentecost weekend. Belgium then suddenly announced, via an MB in the Belgian Official Journal, that borders with neighbouring countries would open immediately for family visits and shopping visits for border residents. That news came as a big surprise for the border municipalities in the neighbouring countries. They had no knowledge of it. The negative reactions were therefore not delayed. After the sudden closure of the Belgian borders in March, suddenly there was the sudden opening of borders, which was accompanied by confusing and sometimes even wrong information. As a result, more than a hundred Belgians were sent back to Paris at the E19 border crossing alone. With this action, Belgium relaxed its border policy entirely on its own initiative. However, I have often raised questions in this committee about the reopening of borders. You always replied that you were talking to the neighbouring countries. The Benelux partners, the Netherlands and Luxembourg had little understanding of this action. In fact, there was a basic agreement to relax and reopen borders in a coordinated and uniform manner as a single Benelux bubble. For the chairman of the Benelux Parliament, Mr Graas, this incident is symptomatic of the reduced and flawed cooperation between the Benelux countries. Where Benelux cooperation used to be the model of European cooperation, that would now be wanening. Mr Minister, can you confirm that the intention was to open borders in a coordinated and uniform manner as one Belenux bubble? If so, why has there been a sudden deviation? Have you discussed this incident with your Benelux colleagues? To what extent is the corona exit strategy discussed with the Benelux partners? Will the government learn from the mistakes made and develop a common policy and action plan in the event of a second corona wave, which, of course, we hope will not be necessary? Is the Benelux cooperation plan itself under pressure? How has cooperation evolved in recent years? Are you planning consultations to re-enhanced these relationships?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, these are decisions taken by my colleague, the Minister of the Interior, Mr. De Crem, who since the beginning of the crisis, given his usual skills, has been in charge of movement across borders. He has regular contacts with his counterparts in neighbouring countries, such as Dutch minister Grapperhaus. As part of the gradual reopening of the internal borders of the European Union and the consequent need to facilitate coordination with border countries, I have recently taken the initiative to set up ad hoc bilateral committees with France, the Netherlands, Germany and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The meetings of these committees are organized by our posts in the four capitals. These are joint foreign and internal affairs committees whose mission is to identify as early as possible the issues and even problems that the reopening of borders poses in practice. It is a communication forum for collecting and exchanging relevant information that requires political attention or intervention. The first meeting of the Joint Committee with Luxembourg took place on 29 May. Subsequently, the Joint Committees were held on 4 June with the Netherlands and Germany and on 5 June with France. The subject of your question concerning the clarification of the rules in force for cross-border visits does not fall within the competence of my department but that of the interior. I come to Mrs Samyn's question. The most recent contact with my French counterparts dates from 17 May last. The issue of family visits was not discussed. In this respect, there is direct contact between Minister De Crem and his colleagues in neighbouring countries. However, I recently took an initiative to set up ad hoc working groups with France, the Netherlands, Germany and Luxembourg. The meetings of these working groups are organised by our posts in the four respective capitals. These are mixed administrative structures, Home Affairs/External Affairs, whose task is to identify as early as possible the questions themselves and the problems arising from the reopening of borders in practice. It is always a form of communication for the collection and exchange of relevant information that requires political attention or intervention. The first meeting of the bilateral working group with Luxembourg took place on Friday 29 May. Similar meetings were then held with the Netherlands and Germany on 4 June and with France on 5 June. The subject of your third and fourth questions is not the responsibility of my department, but of the Department of the Interior. I answer Ms Jadin's question about travel notices, even if she is not present. When it comes to protection and assistance to their nationals, Member States are best placed to assess the situation, taking into account national and specific factors. The competence to give such travel notices is in the hands of the Member States. While the Commission provides evidence and analysis, it remains in a supporting role. Unless a visa waiver agreement is adopted at European Union level, each Member State shall determine the conditions for access to its own territory for third-country nationals, in accordance with the rules on the free movement of the Schengen area and associated countries. Temporary restraint measures may be taken to combat the Coronavirus epidemic, but they must be proportionate and non-discriminatory. The Ministers of the Interior, whose competence it is, and the experts in the Permanent Representation to the European Union, meet very regularly, almost daily, to exchange their views and coordinate as far as possible. The travel notices of the FPS Foreign Affairs website present very precisely the rules in force for each country. Mrs Van Bossuyt, there are already intense bilateral and trilateral contacts within the Benelux framework. Belgium also agreed to participate in a Benelux Working Party on Foreign Affairs and Internal Affairs which aims to gain more insight into the concrete questions and possible bottlenecks arising from the differences between the Belgian, Dutch and Luxembourg approaches in the framework of the COOVID-19 exit phase. The Secretariat-General of the Benelux will take over the practical organisation. The fact that bilateral talks are taking place on some issues is not new. This does not mean that cooperation within the Benelux is under pressure. I have excellent contacts with my colleagues in the Netherlands and Luxembourg. I look forward to further deepening our cooperation and I will ensure that current dynamics continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u49	Mr Minister, it is not the first time that this emergency government has miscommunicated or announced even worse measures to which it has to come back afterwards. Imagine how one should feel when the government announces that one can finally visit family again after months, but at the border crossing one must find that one has to turn right because it was a unilateral decision of that government. It is inconceivable that there was no better communication on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u50	Minister, you will pass the problem on to Minister De Crem and say that it was his responsibility, but on the other hand you will have bilateral talks with your colleagues. The question then is who is ultimately competent? You say that there was contact with Luxembourg on 29 May. The next day, the borders suddenly opened and it was announced from Luxembourg, among other places, that there was no knowledge of them. It seems, therefore, that you did not speak the day before that the borders would be opened again. You also referred to the Benelux working group which is being set up. Did that happen after the incident? That did not become quite clear in your reply. I assume that this is a new working group which is now being set up, which indicates that more cooperation is needed. You said, however, that cooperation within the Benelux countries is going well. However, according to others, this could be a bit more flexible. I can only hope that every effort will be made to ensure that the cooperation within the Benelux countries goes very well.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u51	Minister, in an interview with some European media, EU High Representative Josep Borrell warned that: "The confrontation between China and the United States will define the world of tomorrow. And in this world, we Europeans do not have to choose a camp, we will have to defend our own interests – as Frank Sinatra, My Way said – in our own way." I share his analysis that it is necessary for the European Union to impose itself as a Union at a time when several states on a global scale are violently calling into question multilateralism, not to mention the possible effects of coronavirus on the balance of world powers. Mr Minister, in concrete terms, what initiatives are being taken by our country within the Council of the European Union to strengthen European strategic autonomy? In the preparation of the future European budget or in the implementation of the European Commission's policy, what are Belgium's priorities for a 3D approach (defence, diplomacy and development cooperation) at European level? Finally, in the Security Council, has Belgium taken any initiatives in this direction, whereas France, following Brexit, is now the only Member State of the European Union with a permanent seat there?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u52	Mr Lacroix, who says strategic autonomy means autonomy of decision-making and action. As regards decision-making, our country continues to advocate for an effective, strengthened and integrated decision-making process at both the level of national representatives to the European Union and the Council, in its various formats, including defence. This strengthening and integration also includes the search for synergies and efficiency with European institutions, in particular with the Commission. In terms of action, our country supports the idea that the Union must be able to rely on its own command and control structures and on its own resources and capabilities. As regards both military and civilian conduct and monitoring structures, we support their consolidation within the European institutions. Moreover, the use of own resources and capacities implies the strengthening of the defence industrial and technological base, in particular through the European Defence Fund. More generally, in terms of defence capabilities, our country emphasizes the need to develop, in priority and cooperation, the key capabilities deemed to be lacking to date. Initiatives such as permanent structured cooperation and the annual coordinated defence review, in which our country participates, certainly contribute to this objective. With regard to these various initiatives, we stand for enhanced governance and coherence. Finally, it is important to stress that, as a founding country of both the European Union and NATO, while avoiding unnecessary duplication, we support the need to strengthen cooperation between the two organisations, which can only be beneficial to them. Also in the area of civilian capacity, our country is actively responding effectively and interdepartmentally to the commitment made in the context of a CSDP Compact. A first national implementation plan was presented last November. Our country will pay particular attention to these aspects and initiatives in the context of the reflections on the strategic compass, for which a common European approach to challenges, risks and threats is indispensable. Discussions on strategic autonomy in relation to trade issues are ongoing within the European Union and Belgium. First, we will need an analysis both at Belgian and European level on our value chains. Then there will be the debate on the sectors that we consider strategic. Are these future-oriented sectors such as digital technology or traditional sectors such as agriculture or steel production? The questions are asked. At Belgian level, the exercise will be conducted by the SPF Economy, in close cooperation with Foreign Affairs and the Regions. Of course, we cannot lose sight of the fact that strategic autonomy is also achieved through the diversification of our value chains. The European Commission is pursuing its bilateral agenda of free trade agreements with third countries. With regard to the Commission's financial resources and programmes, our country is very active and defends a budget that meets expectations and announcements, in particular with regard to the European Defence Fund, which is seen as a game of change as it must be able to stimulate priority, inclusive and open research and capacity development programmes, particularly for our SMEs with European supply chains. In addition, our country also supports the forthcoming establishment of the European Peace Facility, a flexible and flexible instrument that should also allow for a more integrated European approach that is more appropriate to the need to equip our partners, in particular Sahelians, with adequate capacities for their own long-term care. Within the Security Council, Belgium attaches great importance to the promotion of the European dimension. This concerns not only cooperation between the Member States of the European Union members of the Council, but also the sharing of information and dialogue with the other Member States of the European Union and the European External Action Service. These efforts are bearing fruit. A very visible example is the regular holding of talks, press moments after a Council meeting, where members of the European Union who are also members of the Council make a joint statement to the press. This contributes to the visibility of the European Union's action in New York.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u53	Minister, I would like to thank you for your answer. However, what I expect of the future government is to redefine and update its strategic defence vision. We have already mentioned this subject on several occasions. I am talking about a future government because even if you are no longer in day-to-day business, it remains that the government has the confidence of Parliament only until the end of this summer or at least until September. I would really like Belgium, in its external relations policy and in its national defence policy, to be one of the driving forces behind the construction of European strategic autonomy in relation to trade issues. But even more than the engine, I would like our country to be one of the key elements behind Mr Borrell and behind the Member States, through enhanced cooperation. As we have been for the founding of Europe, we really need to be a pioneering State in this area. I plead in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u54	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 55006777C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u55	Madam President, Minister, this is my last question for today. At the beginning of June, the fourth round of the Brexit conversations started. The United Kingdom left the European Union on 31 January and is in a transitional period until the end of this year, with the country remaining a member of the internal market and of the customs union. In the meantime, a new trade agreement to enter into force in 2021 is being negotiated. Initially, the hope was to have taken important steps in the talks by the end of June, but unfortunately there is more and more fear of a no-dealbrexit. Europe wants a broad agreement, guaranteeing that the UK will not undermine the EU's competitive position, for example by maintaining European standards on social protection and tackling the climate or by providing EU access to British waters for fisheries. The United Kingdom considers the European Union's demands to be excessive and rather wants a classic free trade agreement, possibly supplemented by small sectoral agreements, such as (...). A no-dealbrexit would be a catastrophe for our companies and our jobs and the economy in general. They are already under enormous pressure as a result of the coronapandemic and are certainly not waiting for additional problems and difficulties next year due to the changed and complex trade relations between the EU and the United Kingdom. It is therefore vital that the government is sufficiently prepared for the Brexit and takes measures to protect our companies as much as possible from the negative impact it will have, even if it is a soft Brexit. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. How is this fourth round going in the Brexit talks between the European Union and the United Kingdom? What outcome do you expect? Has Belgium already taken concrete initiatives to ensure a relay in the talks? When I hear Michel Barnier, he doesn't sound very optimistic. In the light of recent reports, do you still consider it possible to reach an agreement within the deadline set? If not, what resources can the EU still use to obtain postponement, so that we can still bet on a soft brexit? Finally, it has already been confirmed that the European Globalisation Fund can be used to cope with the consequences of the Brexit. As you know, there is also a European recovery fund on the table. Will Belgium also argue that part of this European recovery fund should be used to cope with the consequences of the Brexit?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u56	Mrs Van Bossuyt, the negotiations between the European Union and the United Kingdom on a treaty that would provide a framework for their relations after the transitional period, which was laid down in the Treaty of Accession and ended on 31 December, are only progressing very slowly. The fourth round of negotiations did not bring any significant change in this respect. The European Commission was appointed as the sole negotiator on behalf of the EU and its Member States, in order to safeguard their unity and a coherent approach. To this end, the Commission was given a detailed mandate by the Council, which was approved by all Member States. It shall report regularly to the Council and take note of the Member States' response. In this context, initiatives taken individually by the Member States to intervene in the dynamics of negotiations are therefore not covered. In principle, it is still possible for both parties to reach an agreement before the end of the year. However, very serious consideration must be given to the possibility that this will not be the case. The British Government has stated on several occasions, officially and publicly, that it is under no circumstances prepared to extend the transitional period mentioned above. Belgium, as one of the few Member States within the Council, consistently calls for the socio-economic impact of the Brexit to be taken into account when drawing up the European budget. We are therefore continuing to make that point, also in the context of the current budgetary constraints and especially now that the prospect of a hard Brexit is not impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u57	Indeed, Minister, I am well aware that the European Commission is the only negotiator in this respect. As you say, that is very good, because it would not be advisable for countries to start negotiating bilaterally with the United Kingdom and thus to have a race. I support that 100%, but it is important that Belgium calls behind the scenes for as much as possible to move towards a soft Brexit. You say that we must take serious account of the fact that, unfortunately, we are going to a hard Brexit. I also read the reports we receive from the United Kingdom. In any case, we must continue to do everything we can to avoid this. What I think is very good in your reply, and I hope that Belgium will continue to do so, is that, in the context of the negotiations that are now taking place on the MFF and the European Recovery Fund, we are calling for resources to be used to deal with the consequences of the Brexit, whether it becomes soft or hard. This will have a very significant impact on our economy, and we will be very badly affected by it. The United Kingdom is the fourth most important trading partner for Flanders, so we absolutely must do everything we can because our companies and our economy need it. If they don't work properly, people lose their jobs and we all know the consequences. So you have every support to continue to argue for it as much as possible every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u58	The United States is withdrawing from the World Health Organisation. This was proclaimed by the American president. According to the Americans, China is manipulating the World Health Organisation and has not dealt with the health crisis properly. However, the United States is the World Health Organization's largest donor with 450 million dollars. Indeed, I am sometimes critical of the World Health Organisation, because China also links the health records within the World Health Organisation to political dossiers, such as the refusal to admit Taiwan. There is also criticism of the dependency of private donors, the limited powers of control and unexpected visits and bureaucracy and inefficiency of the organisation. However, an international health approach by the World Health Organisation is crucial. Hence Belgium has granted an additional contribution of 2 million euros and is examining the possibility of a second disc. The World Health Organisation figures show that Belgium gave a total of $20,000,544 in the fourth quarter of 2019. What is Belgium's contribution on an annual basis? What is the planned support in the next legislature? What is the Belgian diplomatic response to the withdrawal of the United States from the World Health Organisation? Is Belgium planning to address this in a bilateral dialogue with the United States? Is this announced 4 million euros enough? Is there a way to close the gap, either by Belgium in cooperation with the European Union or with other forces? What concrete initiatives will Belgium try to help improve the functioning of the World Health Organisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u59	Madam President, the Belgian contribution to the WHO amounts to EUR 7,600,000 in 2020. Our voluntary contribution to the overall budget is EUR 4 million, the total amount of which is considered official development aid and therefore goes entirely to development cooperation. The level of the Belgian contribution to the WHO is currently difficult to predict, especially since a future Minister of Development can decide to increase or reduce that contribution. Usually, Belgian Development Cooperation tries to maintain the same contributions every year as a voluntary contribution to multilateral organisations. Belgium has always recalled its support for multilateralism and will continue to do so in its bilateral contacts. At present, Belgium, in particular the Belgian Development Cooperation, has committed an additional EUR 4 million to the WHO in the context of the COOVID-19 crisis. We can be proud of the speed with which these resources have been brought together in spite of the current situation. In concrete terms, we are doubling our voluntary contributions. The WTO's response to this is positive. The complementary support mentioned above is already a good example of this. In its bilateral contacts, Belgium will continue to invite its partners to continue to support the WHO in any way. Belgium will support any European initiative taken to this end. Belgium has been part of the WHO for decades and follows closely the evaluation rules, governance and reforms of the organisation. That's a constant job. When the crisis is over, Belgium, together with other like-minded countries, will undoubtedly examine the functioning of the WTO with a view to improving the organisation's day-to-day work. Nevertheless, Minister De Croo and I have already asked our services, together with experts from all FPS and competent entities, to study and propose new action paths by the end of June.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u60	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Indeed, it is too far-reaching to call the World Health Organisation China's lapdog, and it is convenient for the United States to use the World Health Organisation in its rivalry with China, but that does not alter the fact that a review of it does force itself. I think it is a good thing that you respond and insist on this, and that you will take the necessary action, because lessons must be learned from this crisis. The Director-General of the World Health Organisation has strengthened the image that they are running on China's leash. That may not have been the intention, but that image has now been called up. So we need to look at how we are dealing with what has happened in the past period regarding the corona crisis and whether the World Health Organisation is not in need of reform. I will continue to question you about this, as it is very important that we have an international organisation dedicated to health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u61	Minister, we have discussed Chinese-American relations on several occasions, in connection with the World Health Organisation, but also with regard to Hong Kong, where special trade status has been abandoned. In addition, there is the measure to withdraw visas from Chinese students who maintain ties with the Chinese army. President Trump wants to take China clearly with his measures. How do we deal with that? Meanwhile, China has already announced a number of measures, such as the cessation of imports of some agricultural products from the United States. What do you think are the long-term consequences for American-Chinese relations and the global balance of power? What geopolitical strategy should our country and the European Union adopt vis-à-vis China and the United States at a time when Chinese-American relations are at risk of confrontation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u62	Mrs Van Hoof, I note that the so-called phase 1 deal is still in place and that hostilities on the trade front have not yet been restarted. Both parties have little interest in this either. In the United States, it's an election year. Moreover, the COVID-19 crisis is taking a heavy economic toll. At the moment, it does not seem appropriate to go further by starting a new trade war with China. The American stock exchanges would react negatively to this. The crisis is also felt in China, which has much more to lose in a trade war than the United States. Belgium is closely monitoring the implementation of this agreement at European level, with possible positive and negative consequences. Certain advantages granted should be applied to all China's trading partners. The economic rivalry between China and the US must be seen in the global power ratio of the 21st century. China's rise is inevitable. It is important that the country can take a rightful place without the tensions escalating. That is why respect for international law and multilateral institutions is so important. As a superpower, China must accept its responsibility, play the game fairly and should not adopt a pick-and-choose approach. Europe can make itself useful as a honest broker. The worst scenario is a world dominated by two blocs of power. Then there will be no room for multilateral decision-making and Europe will be reduced to a geopolitical theatre instead of being a player itself. With regard to the geopolitical strategy vis-à-vis China and the US, the tensions seem to me to be a permanent one. As I said in my previous answer, I don't think we're going straight to confrontation. It should not be forgotten that China is still the lesser of the United States in military terms. Our countries and the European Union must continue to work for a regular international order managed by efficient multilateral institutions. At the same time, we need to build a relationship of trust with both China and the United States so that we can get both sides to sit down. It's probably not always gonna work, but we don't have any other choice. In this context, it is important that the European Union develops its strategic autonomy and strengthens its values, interests and priorities. This is already a policy priority for the current European Commission. The European Union must avoid being instrumentalised by the United States or by China. The United States is one of the main trading partners of both Hong Kong and China. The withdrawal of Hong Kong's special trading status by President Trump's administration is therefore a sanction which could have negative consequences not only for Hong Kong and China but also for US companies located in Hong Kong. On the basis of this special trade statute, Hong Kong is indeed regarded as a separate customs entity and enjoys all the advantages of a privileged nation, such as lower customs tariffs for Hong Kong goods and favourable treatment for the import of sensitive goods. It is now awaiting the concrete timing and implementation of this decision. In any case, this is a signal of distrust towards Hong Kong, which could have a negative impact on the city in the longer term as an international financial centre and as a location for foreign investors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. I remember two important things. Legal rules and multilateralism are indeed important values shared by Belgium and the European Union. This must be defended with more strength than today, even in the future. That seems to me to be a good starting point. Next, as regards the relationship between China and the United States, you say that tensions are becoming permanent. The question is: how does Belgium and the European Union deal with this? It is a good starting point, as you say, not to close the door on both sides. In this way, we are indeed weaker. It is necessary that we invite both parties permanently around the table. Indeed, we must continue to respect the rules of law and multilateralism and keep knocking on that nail, so that we do not risk falling between those two blocs of power.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u64	Madam President, Minister, elections have taken place in Burundi and the party of the outgoing President has won. Of course, there are criticisms of how these elections took place. But, contrary to what was feared, no violent event is to be deplored, in any case until now, as a result of these elections. Even the two protagonists, the presumed successor who will have to take the oath in the course of August – if I am not mistaken – and the candidate for the losing presidency saw each other and agreed on the continuation of a dialogue in the interest of Burundi. Therefore, in this context, and while we are still unaware of the state of health of the outgoing president who is suffering and who is currently in another country, what concrete action can Belgium take with regard to Burundi? What action do we expect from this country to consider resuming cooperation, partnership and bilateral relations a little more extensive than those we have seen in recent years, because of the large retreat on Burundi's own, which now seems to be opening up a little? What can we also do to contribute to the consolidation of a peaceful and inclusive society in that country? As we are at the beginning of a process, before the start of development cooperation, it is at the level of foreign affairs and perhaps also at the level of defence, knowing that there has always been a fairly effective military partnership between our two countries, that the first contacts must be resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u65	Madam President, Mr Flahaut, as you have indicated, the elections in Burundi were held in a calm atmosphere and were characterized by strong popular participation. The main opponent challenged the results by legal means, but the Constitutional Court confirmed on 4 June the victory of the CNDD-FDD party and its main candidate. Despite the numerous irregularities noted, notably by the Catholic Church and the fact that Burundians living abroad were unable to vote, a new reality is present to us today. We hope that the new administration will be more open to cooperation with the international community and we are ready to turn a new page on our bilateral relations, but we also need some gestures of goodwill from the authorities. Thus, in terms of human rights, the release of four journalists from Iwacu or activists such as Germain Rukuki or Nestor Nibitanga would be strong gestures. Similarly, we hope that the new power will release pressure on the main opposition party, the CNL. Indeed, more than 600 party activists were arrested during the final phase of the electoral process, and most of them are still incarcerated. It seems to us that a fair treatment of their case and their release – given that they have not committed any act of violence – would contribute to national reconciliation. Finally, at the political level, facilitating the return of opponents to exile would also be a welcome step. Some of them expressed their willingness to return to the elections and were prevented by the authorities. In addition to political issues, it will also be necessary to discuss issues of economic governance with the new authorities. That is where our colleagues in Development Cooperation will come into play, with whom my services regularly consult. We are also bound by our European commitments, specifically Article 96, which is still in force. In any event, new interdepartmental consultations will take place in the coming weeks in order to redefine our strategy for Burundi. Our embassy in Bujumbura has already written a note on the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u66	The summer months will be decisive in assessing the commitments of the new Burundian administration and the possibility of cooperating with it, which I very much hope for this country, which remains special for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u67	Minister, I believe that there is indeed an opportunity for now. Perhaps we should be concerned about the state of health of the outgoing President. The transitional period between the elections and the swearing-in of his successor could give rise to some form of instability. But it is clear that it would be interesting to put on paper the "menu" allowing discussions to begin, as soon as possible, on as many topics as possible, on a bilateral basis, in order to succeed the multilateral with that country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u68	Madam President, I am sorry, I missed the first question on the agenda earlier, yet I was connected but inattentive. I apologize for that. Under the previous legislature, particularly on the initiative of my group, the House adopted a resolution on the segregation of the Métis from Belgian colonization in Africa. In this context, on April 4, 2019, in front of the House of Representatives, Prime Minister Charles Michel presented Belgium's official apology to the Métis from colonization and their families for "the injustices and sufferings they have suffered". In this context, too, the resolution listed numerous requests addressed to the Government, such as the establishment of a mechanism to facilitate the consultation of the Belgian colonial archives by the persons concerned and their descendants, as well as the declassification of any still classified archives relating to this issue. Minister, what follow-up has been given to this resolution, point by point? I am thinking specifically of putting in place the proposals that will result from the complementary study of the CegeSoma, the point of contact of the SPF Justice, the erection of a commemorative stele, access to the personal records of the colonial Métis stored in the archives of private institutions and especially religious institutions. What progress has been made in this area, in particular with your colleague in charge of Justice? In particular, in the field of archival policy, what about the African archives that depend on the FPS Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u69	Mr Ben Achour, as regards the organisation of our work, I have a particularly long answer because I answer your questions point by point. That's quite substantiated. May I suggest that you forward this answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u70	Let's do this! I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u71	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, the conclusion of the SPF Economy impact assessment on Mercosur has fallen behind due to the current crisis. However, I understand that the study is in the final stages and will have to be completed very soon. For more information about this study, I refer you to my colleague, Nathalie Muylle. I am, of course, prepared to request that my administration prepare a new "progress report" on Belgian and European trade policy. However, I encourage Parliament to look at the last progress report which has been presented to it and which, I believe, has not yet been discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u72	Minister, thank you and I will not fail to question your colleague, Minister Muylle.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u73	Madam President, Minister, you know that, in principle, a resolution will be adopted tomorrow on this subject or that it will in any case be discussed and debated in the Committee on External Relations. I would therefore like to know if we had reported on our implementation of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u74	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, the Review Conference of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons should have been held in April and May, but it was postponed because of the crisis in VOCID-19. The new dates have not yet been confirmed, but the Conference will take place no later than April 2021. Consequently, the deadline for the introduction of documents such as national reports has been extended sine die. Belgium intends to submit a national report within the deadlines set. It will describe our country's efforts to implement its commitments on the NPT, including nuclear disarmament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u75	Mr Minister, I understand, of course, that the unprecedented health crisis that we have experienced, and that we continue to experience, has prevented the report from being submitted, but I will not fail to ask you in the future to know what Belgium is actually doing to enforce the NPT.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u76	Madam Chair, Minister, I have received information that the oil vessel Safer Tank is in a flaw. There would now be a leak, since May 27th. The tanker is in danger of exploding in the Red Sea. I had already asked you about this, or your predecessor, Minister Reynders. I would like to know how Belgium can exert pressure to give access to a repair and rescue mission by the United Nations, in order to prevent a real ecological disaster.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u77	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, the issue of access to the Safer oil tanker off the coast of Hodeidah is indeed a matter of concern. As you pointed out, a leak of water would have occurred in the tanker's engine room on May 27. Due to the lack of maintenance, the risk of explosion is high and would cause a certain ecological disaster. In addition, in a country where the lack of oil has a direct impact on the humanitarian situation of the population, it is essential that the UN mission have access to the oil tanker in order to assess the damage. For now the Huthis rebels still refuse access to UN experts. Belgium continues to raise this issue in the United Nations Security Council and in bilateral contacts with the parties to the conflict. We are trying through this to exert the necessary pressure. The issue of access to the tanker is also one of the discussion points of the UN Special Envoy Martin Griffiths with the Huthis rebels. In view of the urgency, Belgium continues to follow this case and to advocate for access and repair of the tanker where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u78	Thank you, Minister, and thank you to your services for following this issue carefully and lobbying for access to UN teams. This will save this tanker. Again, the opposite would be an ecological disaster unprecedented in history.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u79	Madam President, Minister, several European countries impose additional restrictions on tourists wishing to return to their country from 15 June. For example, Austria states as a criterion that tourists must submit a negative corona test not older than four days, or the tourists must be quarantined for two weeks. Transit would then again be possible if the tourists can prove that they will soon leave the country again. The first criterion raises a number of questions, In particular, the family doctor's association in our country is ringing the bell and saying that the demands of Austria and other countries are in practice unachievable. If all tourists wishing to enter a country such as Austria turn to their general practitioner, who is not even authorized to take a test on the basis of tourist reasons, this could cause problems in terms of red tape. Moreover, the test would be a snapshot and in no way prove that the tourist is infected or not upon arrival at the border. Such a test therefore has little or no added value, according to the general practitioner's association. In order to clarify this and to consult with countries which, like Austria, impose such measures on Belgian tourists, the GPs require an early consultation with Foreign Affairs in order to avoid the general practitioners being overwhelmed with questions on this matter. Minister, which EU countries impose such conditions? Have you scheduled the requested consultation yet? Will you go into that? If so, when? If not, why not? What position will the Foreign Office take in this regard? Will you discuss this with your European foreign ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u80	Mrs Ponthier, the questions on testing capacity and the submission of negative corona tests concern a matter which does not fall within the competence of the Foreign Affairs Office. I would like to answer the questions I am involved in. Currently Austria and the Czech Republic are requesting a negative COOVID-19 test to be admitted to their territory. Other countries ask for quarantine or take into account the number of COOVID-19 infections in the past 14 days. The latter applies, for example, to the Baltic States. Each country has the right to impose its own conditions for access to its territory, and Belgium will, of course, respect that. However, I will try to make travelling as simple as possible for Belgians and I will ask for clarification on the measures imposed. Over the next few days, I have planned several bilateral contacts with several European countries to discuss this issue. On Friday 12 June, I invite all EU ambassadors and ambassadors of the four Schengen States to discuss the border crossings and the possibilities for Belgians to travel to those countries. For the specific technical questions on testing capacity and medical certificates, I would like to refer you to the Minister of Health. My services will not fail to inform the FPS Health about the requirements imposed in the other countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u81	Of course, Minister, you are not responsible for the medical aspects of the questions put, but you are responsible for the consultations on this matter, which I believe is absolutely necessary. I would like to thank you in advance for your efforts with regard to the planned consultation with your European colleagues. I would really like to press for an early consultation which is about to take place, for which I thank you, but also for a final conclusion which will provide the necessary clarity in this matter. I would also like to call for clear, transparent communication on the procedure to be followed by people if they wish to undertake intra-EU travel in the coming period, so that they know where they stand and what they may have to comply with. I look forward to further discussions on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u82	Minister, you know that Israel's threats to annex large parts of the West Bank are becoming more and more precise. Moreover, the deadline announced by Prime Minister Netanyahu is approaching dangerously. Meanwhile, violence against Palestinian populations appears to be increasing. Tragic proof of this was given on 30 May with the death of 32-year-old Iyad Hallak, shot dead at the entrance to the Old City of Jerusalem. Patrol police units reportedly identified the object he was wearing as a pistol and, after a chase, opened fire. The weapon was, in fact, a mobile phone whose victim, suffering from autism, used to keep in touch with his parents on the way to the specialized institution where he was receiving care. Since then, demonstrations have multiplied – both in Palestine and Israel. Moreover, a parallelism is established on social networks with the death of George Floyd and the Black Lives Matter movement. The European Union called on the Israeli authorities to try those responsible and to ensure that this type of incident could not happen again. Furthermore, the United Nations Human Rights Office notes that the levels of responsibility for the use of force by the Israeli police against Palestinians are very low, with only a handful of charges over the past five years. Mr Minister, in this context, I would like to know whether you have had the opportunity to question the Israeli authorities on this matter. Have you talked about this, especially with the Israeli ambassador we received in this committee a few weeks ago? Furthermore, how does Belgium, within the European framework and within the United Nations, stand in the face of these recurrent and increasingly abominable violence? I would also like to take this opportunity to ask you whether a common European attitude could be defined with regard to the plans for annexation of the Israeli Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u83	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, as you have pointed out, the death of Iyad Hallak is tragic and causes great distress because of the circumstances of this young man's death. I fully endorse the European Union's message on the need to investigate the facts and to try those responsible. Such an incident could and should have been avoided. It is also in substance the message that was relayed by our Consulate-General in Jerusalem, following Mr. Mladenov, the United Nations Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process. As far as the European Union's position on annexation is concerned, I refer you to our discussions on 26 May. Since then, our diplomatic efforts have intensified. At the informal Foreign Affairs Council on 15 June, the EU Foreign Ministers will have a meeting with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. It is clear that, in this context, the European Union will reiterate its very clear messages on the illegality of a possible unilateral annexation and the need to relaunch a credible negotiation process based on international law and the agreed parameters of the conflict, which is not the case, as I have already had the opportunity to say here, of the American plan. Nevertheless, we believe that the United States remains a key player in a solution to this conflict. As a member of the quartet United States/European Union/Russia/United Nations, Belgium strongly encourages the resumption of negotiations under the aegis of the quartet and possibly expanded to include regional actors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u84	Minister, thank you for your answers and reminders. It is obvious that in case of annexation, the message will have to be clear. But it will be all the more clear that it will be accompanied by measures because this time, as I have already said before this Parliament, we will no longer be able to content ourselves with words and we will have to take action. Indeed, we may be on the eve of a historic turning point in the history of this conflict. In order to remain credible and to continue to weigh on the future of this region, the European Union will have to take on much greater responsibilities than simply discouraging.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u85	Mr Minister, on 4 June last I learned that the Turkish Parliament had dropped its term of office for three opposition members who had been convicted in various trials, their political groups denouncing a coup d'état against the will of the people. These three deputies have lost their mandate and will therefore no longer be able to sit in Parliament, according to the state news agency Anadolu. This decision paves the way for the imprisonment of the deposed elected officials, all of whom are sentenced to rigorous prison sentences. The Socialist, Green and Democratic Group in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe took a position stating that this sudden decision to strip Mr Berberoglu, Mrs Güven and Mr Farisogullari of the status of Member of Parliament and the immunities connected directly conflicted with the will of the Turkish people and that this reflects genuine abuses, non-compliance and attacks on parliamentary democracy. Mr Minister, could you please tell me whether Belgian diplomacy questions and continues to question both bilaterally and within the Council of Europe the Turkish authorities on respect for human rights and the principles of the rule of law, as well as on this specific situation which seems to be clearly in opposition to these fundamental principles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u86	Mr Lacroix, the procedure followed for the withdrawal of the parliamentary status of the three opposition members, two of whom belong to the pro-Kurdish HDP party, the third being a member of the CHP Social Democratic Party, is indeed a source of questioning. In general, the deterioration of human rights and the rule of law in Turkey is a major concern of Belgium. This trend observed in recent months, with the dismissal of 45 mayors elected in 2019 in south-eastern Turkey, the three arrests you are quoting or the trial against civil society activists such as Osman Kavala, is hardly positive. These questions are closely followed by our posts in Ankara and Istanbul, as well as by my services in Brussels. Regular contacts are held with Turkish civil society. My predecessor has not failed in the past to convey our human rights concerns to the Turkish authorities, and I intend to follow the same policy. My concerns on this subject will be repeated again during the virtual interview this week with the Chairman of the SPF Foreign Affairs Steering Committee with the Turkish Ambassador to Belgium. At the multilateral level, Belgium is also very active. At the March and June 2019 session of the Human Rights Council, we discussed the situation in Turkey, in particular the violations of freedom of expression and the media, the activities and physical integrity of human rights defenders, journalists and political opponents. Belgium participated in the UPR of Turkey in January 2020, with three recommendations expressing our concern about the deterioration of human rights and freedoms in relation to the previous UPR, in particular with regard to the independence of the judiciary, the use of the anti-terrorist law and early and forced marriages. The Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe regularly discusses the situation in Turkey in particular to report on the progress of the various initiatives taken within the framework of the Council of Europe. Statements either on behalf of EUDEL or on behalf of the 27 Member States are regularly delivered on the situation of journalists, human rights or on the enforcement of decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. A joint statement was made at the Council of Ministers on 26 February concerning the re-arrest of Mr. Kavala. Moreover, through the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe recently published its opinion on the replacement of elected candidates and mayors. Our position on compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights is clear. In ratifying the Convention, States parties undertake to be bound by the provisions contained therein, including the obligation to implement the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u87	Mr Minister, thank you for your reply, which confirms that the deterioration of human rights in Turkey is more than worrying. It happens that today, in addition, I have just received from you – thank you – an answer to a written question on measures related to VOCID-19 in Turkey and on early release of some detainees. It can be seen that Turkey has released 90,000 individuals but that its conditions of release in the context of the health crisis formally exclude journalists, human rights defenders or civil society activists who have most of the time been convicted or are being prosecuted for acts that Turkey misunderstood as terrorism. This only confirms that there is a need for a firm and responsible attitude towards this State with which we have not only close links but also close strategic links through NATO and through the decision that was taken in committee this morning on the future engagement of our F-16s in Iraq and Syria. At one point, the question arises of working with states that no longer respect the rule of law, and in particular the standards defined by the Council of Europe. I draw your attention to this position. I know you are competent and effective in this area, and I have no doubt that you will convey these concerns as you have done so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u88	Mr. Flahaut, you wanted to intervene?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u89	Madam President, despite the virtual nature of our committee meeting, I have just received a statement that the President of Burundi has died of a heart attack. This death may create uncertainty, as I mentioned earlier in my question, because their Constitution provides that in the transitional period it is the President of the National Assembly who is in charge of the transition. The problem is that the latter is a civilian and that the military does not see him with that eye. Minister, the security situation in Burundi following the death of President Nkurunziza will have to be taken very seriously. If we had non-virtual meetings, it would be easier to exchange.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u90	Mr Flahaut, thank you for your statement. We must indeed confirm the death. Our services are already in contact with this element, which is now confirmed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u91	Minister, Tunisia, which managed to reap the political fruits of the jasmine revolution, remains fragile. Its economic difficulties, already present before the epidemic, have worsened while the tourist season is forecast to be difficult. The IMF, in its April report, announced a growth contraction of 4.3% and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development of 2.5%. The figures diverge but the fact is the same: Tunisia needs help in order to preserve its democratic heritage. It seems that the economic situation makes the Tunisian political world increasingly subject to the potential games of influence of the powers of the Middle East. Some accuse the President of the Tunisian Parliament, Rached Ghannouchi, who is also the leader of Ennahdha, of conducting parallel diplomacy. His personal diplomatic positions were the subject of a turbulent parliamentary debate on Wednesday, June 3, at the request of several parties including two Ennahdha partners in the government. Demonstrations calling for Mr. Ghannouchi's departure also took place and, at the same time, rumours about a coup d'état project circulated. Minister, what information do you have from our local representation on both the political and security situation? In the current difficult economic context, do you discuss with your colleague in charge of development cooperation in order, both bilaterally and Europeanly, to strengthen our support for this State?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u92	Mr Ben Achour, we are closely following the political and security situation in Tunisia. Our ambassador on the spot was able to talk recently with several members of the Tunisian government about the crisis of the VOCID-19, but also about the severe impact it has on the Tunisian economy, particularly on the tourism sector. Tunisia has continued to face many recurring challenges since the 2011 revolution. The difficulties encountered in setting up a government thus illustrate the specific challenges of democratic consolidation in that country, to which the European Union supports. Tunisia remains the largest beneficiary of European assistance in the southern neighbourhood. In this context, we encourage the Tunisian Government to implement reforms, particularly for the benefit of its youth. With regard to the security situation, we welcome the many efforts, including budgetary efforts, made by Tunisia, a country where the terrorist threat persists and where the state of emergency has been in place since 2016. In this respect, we welcome the excellent cooperation that Belgium has been able to establish with Tunisia. Finally, as you know, Tunisia is not a country of concentration of our government cooperation, but has the support of, among other things, our federated entities and numerous initiatives of Belgian civil society. It should also be noted that Enabel, our cooperation agency, is about to return to Tunisia for the implementation of European funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u93	Minister, thank you for your answers. I think we need to keep our level of vigilance as high as possible. Tunisia is a laboratory for democracy in the Arab world. It is a small country, stuck between two unstable or totally destabilized giants, Algeria and Libya. This country is, as you recalled, threatened by jihadist pressure. It is one of the countries that has a population to number ratio of jihadists present in the Iran-Syrian theatre among the highest in the world. It is a danger and a challenge for this country, which also has a highly educated and active civil society for many decades. I obviously find it necessary to support him in order to complete his democratic transition. Why not, from this point of view, open up prospects for structural cooperation with Belgium? It would seem useful, perhaps even necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u94	"On Sunday, 7 June, you visited the Democratic Republic of the Congo with the European Union chartered 'air bridge'. This bridge was to bring 45 tons of medical equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u95	- has support for the repatriation of Belgian nationals still awaiting repatriation in the subregion been considered through this air system?"
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u96	Madam President, Mrs de Laveleye, I took the flight of the air bridge of DG ECHO, Civil Protection and Humanitarian Aid Operations of the European Commission to Kinshasa on 7 June with my French counterpart Jean-Yves Le Drian and Mr Lenarcic, European Commissioner for Crisis Management. We were accompanied by more than 100 people, mostly from humanitarian agencies, who had mobilized to strengthen local teams in the fight against VOCID-19. The aircraft was also fully filled with humanitarian equipment, namely, 83.18 cubic metres or 15,555 kilograms of cargo exclusively to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Two flights were chartered in parallel, since a second plane is now leaving from Lyon towards the city of Goma, with 38.07 cubic metres or 5,684 kilos of humanitarian equipment on board. In addition, close to sixty members of humanitarian agencies are present. The preparation of these two flights was organised in close cooperation and coordination between Belgium and France, with the help of ECHO's offices in the DRC. The latter assessed local needs, together with the humanitarian partners involved in the field in the fight against VOCID-19. On this basis, the Belgian-French coordination enabled the preparation and subsequent dispatch of humanitarian equipment and personnel through these two flights. Local humanitarian partners will therefore be responsible for management and distribution based on local needs. Indeed, there was no question of going back empty. That is why the aircraft was used to repatriate rotating humanitarian personnel, as well as our nationals and those of the European Union – once again, in close coordination with our embassies, France and DG ECHO.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u97	Minister, thank you for your answers. I have two replica elements. First, I understand that the chartered aid is only to the DRC and that the other Great Lakes partner countries in general are not directly concerned. I hope that more attention will be paid to neighbouring countries. Secondly, I would like to point out that according to the information provided to us by Mr. From Croo, Belgium has spent only twenty million more this year on humanitarian aid, while the percentage of official development assistance continues to decline in Belgium and it could have been hoped that, in the context of the VOCID-19 crisis, the government's effort would be greater. The answer is only twenty million more. We are pleased to see that you have facilitated European freight in this region, but it seems to us that a further effort by Belgium could be made. In addition, I have indeed received the same information as Mr Flahaut who confirms the death of the President of Burundi. Belgian nationals are still present in Burundi. You say you have repatriated Belgian nationals in addition to humanitarian workers. Were they exclusively people in the DRC or were you able to repatriate those from the Great Lakes via the DRC? Do you have any clarifications on this, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u98	They were only people present in the DRC.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-09-55-commissie-ic198x.u99	All right. I would just like to encourage you to continue your work on the repatriation of people, particularly in Burundi. The changing context suggests increased risks for our local citizens. We hope that you will be able to continue all the efforts that your embassy is undertaking on the spot, but which do not yet result in the repatriation of all Belgians from Burundi. We hope that this can be precipitated.
