ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u1	I submitted this question two weeks ago, but it has now become very topical. In fact, the World Health Organisation (WHO) saw an increase in the number of infections in Europe for the first time in months about three weeks ago. In Europe, there are still nearly 20 000 new cases every day and a total of 700,000 deaths. This gives cause for concern in the WTO, all the more so because in a number of countries the number of reproductions also increases significantly. In Belgium, the weekly averages of hospitalizations and deaths stabilise or even decrease. However, the number of new infections is falling much less. What is your response to the WTO warning? What is the estimate of the number of new infections? Do you have any idea where the patients were infected?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u2	Mrs. Depoorter is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u3	Mrs De Block, I thought it was important to raise the issue, especially since on 4 July in Het Journaal you said to my surprise that you could not force travellers returning from holiday to quarantine, because there is no legal basis for it, while two days later you said in a rather laconic tone that it is up to the regions to arrange it and also added that the people themselves should take responsibility. I thought that was quite a punishment, because the various reports from the GEES experts to the government and to you, actually already on 3 June, soon showed that there should be a procedure for travellers returning from regions where the disease flares up again. It is well known that many people leave on vacation at the end of June. They're coming back now and there's no procedure yet. There is only this evening, on 7 July, a meeting where you may decide on a procedure for travellers returning from infected regions. A fellow house doctor contacted me this morning about a patient who just came back from Barcelona. Should it be quarantined or not? The guidelines on the website of Sciensano have not been adapted. Does that person have to take a test or not? It's not clear, and we're late again. Madam Secretary, how is it that you are too late to follow the advice of experts again? How the hell is that possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, the borders of our country are now partially reopened. Some compatriots have therefore decided to take advantage of a holiday abroad. However, several countries are once again confronted with the resurgence of coronavirus cases. In the face of this problematic situation, quarantine areas have therefore been established on the spot. This is particularly the case in Spain, where the government decided to place a Catalan district under quarantine. Measures have been taken for travellers returning from this area: fill out a questionnaire containing the places visited and the on-site contacts as well as testing and voluntary quarantine. However, with regard to the assessment of the risk of transmission of the virus by these people, areas of shadow remain. The RMG experts did not recommend systematic testing for these travellers, but rather that they contact their general practitioner to make an assessment of their risk of infection with coronavirus. Yesterday, the Flemish Minister for Health announced that tests and quarantine would be compulsory in Flanders. This is a regional competence, but crisis management is a federal competence. This is an important issue for public health. We know that there will be an inter-ministerial conference in which you will participate today. There will be a lot of answers there, but I would like to ask the following questions pending, Madam Minister. What are the chances of an increase in the number of infections on our territory by these returning persons? Are there any discussions planned for other countries where there is an increase in the number of cases? Will the Inter-Ministerial Conference consider additional measures to ensure the health of our fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, since the reopening of European borders in mid-June, several countries have resorted to the reconstitution of certain areas of their territory. We have seen new outbreaks of contagion: in Portugal, Italy, Germany, Spain – all the countries whose names resonate like those of tourist places. Thus, the region of Lérida, in Catalonia, which has some 200,000 people, has just been reconfined this Saturday, as have 14 localities in the county of A Marina, the coastal region of northwestern Spain this Sunday. We feel a sense of already-seen in our country, both in terms of communication – too blurred – and of the measures taken – they too, too vague – all seem to be cruelly lacking in anticipation again. However, it was clear that this summer, due to the movement of tourists, new outbreaks of contamination would reappear at home or elsewhere in Europe. It was equally clear that with the reopening of borders, travellers would come from risk areas, be they Belgians or foreigners. Suddenly, we saw a return of a few months, when in February we shared our fears about the arrival in our country of people from China or northern Italy, where the epidemic had settled comfortably. The answers at the time, remember, were not convincing at all. Of course, we could have believed in good faith that we had learned from our mistakes. Well, no! Again, you have provided unclear answers and made imprecise recommendations to tourists from these areas, as if nothing had been recorded on paper and as if we were still not ready to face this yet-anticipated situation. [[It is as if we had not experienced more than 10,000 deaths in Belgium, as if we had not gone through a period with bereaved families, as if our elders had not been cut off from the world for months – and some of them are still so today!]] Minister, it was only this Sunday afternoon that, at the request of the Regions, the RMG met urgently to say what needed to be done. Experts from the Risk Management Group recommended that travel restrictions be extended to areas where new cases have emerged, such as parts of Catalonia or northwestern Spain. They recommend that the federal government advise against any destination to these regions and urge those returning to self-care for a period of fourteen days from the date of their return. If, in accordance with recommendations to already existing travellers, systematic testing is not recommended, persons who have visited the area are invited to contact their general practitioner to provide information on the history of their trip, to assess whether they have symptoms of VOCID-19 or have been exposed to a confirmed case of coronavirus within the last seven days. The experts also recommend that this information be added to the website of the Federal Public Service for Foreign Affairs, which publishes travel notices for different countries around the world, in order to communicate proactively to the Belgian population. Minister, how can I explain that the RMG had to meet urgently this Sunday to discuss the steps to be taken with regard to the return of people from the reconfigured regions or regions where the new contagion clusters have emerged? Why did they have to meet in an emergency? Has the opening of borders with neighbouring European countries, effective since 15 June, not been accompanied by a plan and concrete measures for the return of people from areas that have become or are now at risk? Some experts, who are part of the government's working groups, say that it is not yet prudent to travel. Others, like the inter-federal spokesman, tend to calm the situation by stating that the areas concerned today by these reconfigurations are not necessarily very touristic areas. But we know that today they are rural or more remote areas, but tomorrow they may well be big capitals that drain a huge flow of tourists. You must be ready, which is obviously not yet the case. This can be seen with the recommendations transmitted to passengers upon arrival at Brussels airport, which were not even translated into English. Communication, too, continues to move in every direction. Yet we say this from the beginning: clear and unambiguous communication is essential to make recommendations, rules and advice available to citizens. What guidelines will finally be adopted to respond to these situations, which, if poorly managed, could create the rebound and resurgence of the epidemic in our country? Will the RMG recommendations be followed? How can we best ensure the follow-up of people who have travelled or travelled to an area at risk, given the management that has taken place in the last few days in the emergency? Can you confirm today that there is an even local reconfinition plan, based on specific epidemiological criteria, and that this plan is on the table to deal with these situations if they come to our country? I imagine that with the proximity of the Inter-Ministerial Conference, you are able to tell us all about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u6	Mr President, Minister, since 15 June we have been allowed to travel more or less freely in Europe, but in the meantime, the first corona has already resurfaced. It seems to be a matter of time before our turn again. Currently, the Risk Management Group advises that when travellers return from an infected area they should spend two weeks in self-quarantine and contact their GP. There is also a form that travellers should fill in to facilitate contact detection. A number of virologists urgently need a legal framework to quarantine returning holidaymakers from at-risk areas. Some virologists recommend traveling off anyway. The question for a legal framework has been there for several weeks. By the way, on 9 June, Minister De Backer said that RMG would quickly advise. As far as I know, it has done so, but apparently that advice remains. Apparently, there has already been an IMC where the legal framework has been discussed, but we have still not seen any concrete results. I wonder if no lessons have really been learned from the first outbreak in our country when thousands of skiers came back from the infected areas in northern Italy and Austria. If this goes on for a long time, we're in the same boat again. To add to the chaos and confusion, yesterday we saw Minister Beke on television who, as it seemed, definitely announced policy around that quarantine and those tests. If we have understood you correctly now, this should happen tonight. Do you intend to have returning travellers from at-risk areas tested and quarantined tonight with the fellow ministers of the Interior and Foreign Affairs? Do you intend to provide a legal framework for this? When can we expect that? What I also find very strange and for which I would like to have an explanation or at least the intention to change the policy on this matter, is that the form I mentioned at the moment should only be completed by people arriving by plane. By car, we're obviously allowed to travel wherever we want and we don't have to fill anything out. On the other hand, Europe recommends that travellers from a number of countries outside Europe should be allowed back into Europe, but that Belgium should then close its borders completely. In short, confusion trumps, ambiguity trumps, with the observation that weeks ago there would have been an impetus for a legal framework, of which we have not yet seen anything. I would like to have a clear state of affairs and would like to know clearly what will be decided tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u7	Minister, I am speaking to you, but I could also address regional governments in the same way. Indeed, in the last few days we have again had great improvisation. I saw you live on television explaining about people returning from areas in reconstitution, at European level, that it was only necessary to take a test, and that the law did not allow for quarantine. Let us remember, however, that all Belgians were confined for three months with freedoms reduced to the skin of grief, in the same legal framework. In recent days, a ping-pong between the federal and regional governments has been held. Let us remember their skills in this area. There has been a major gap between what public authorities are announcing and the recommendations of scientists, again. All this gives a deplorable image. But beyond the image, it is obviously serious because it is a matter of public health. I almost want to say bis repetita, since last February we must have missed a major moment in relation to the return of holidaymakers from the February holiday. It would not be a question in July and August of resuming the same improvisation even though everything is perfectly predictable. We knew from a scientific point of view that clusters were likely to reappear in Europe. Moreover, it was also known, since Germany was already concerned several weeks ago, that this was going to happen very quickly. The Exit Group but also the National Security Council should have, or should have – I dare hope – made arrangements and given clear guidelines. They had to set up a strategy as part of the complete de-confinition, with the reopening of borders and the resumption of tourism. I cannot imagine that the National Security Council, composed of the federal and federated entities, did not address this issue, and that everyone does not assume what they have to do, at every level of power. So, minister, what about it? Did the NSC logically anticipate what was to happen and what was to happen? What decisions have been taken by the NSC in this context? What were the competencies and responsibilities to be assumed by each level of government, federal and federated entities? How is it that we are meeting this weekend in the face of this total improvisation and the divergent political and scientific discourses, with this ping-pong between federated entities and federal level? More broadly, the public health strategy must be coherent and clear in its various aspects, regardless of the return and the way in which tourists travel. This must also be done in the other direction, for potential foreign tourists who would be in Belgium and who would return home if they had been able to have contact with a carrier patient in Belgium. Can you, together with your colleagues from the federated entities, clarify the situation very quickly, and draw up a clear and precise plan that avoids the inconsistencies that we have seen in recent days? On the other hand, I would also like to ask you about the framework that applies in case of quarantine for returning persons. Do they fall under the quarantine certificate as it exists when a Belgian person has contact with a carrier patient? Here, there may not have been contact with a carrier, but it is a return from a reconfigured area. Do they therefore benefit from the quarantine allowance? Or is this a certificate of sickness, and therefore a corresponding remuneration? This is for all people who cannot work at home as part of telework. We must do everything we can to avoid a second wave. We must do everything we can to avoid the reappearance of clusters in Belgium. We must therefore make every effort to ensure that people returning from suspicious or reconfigured areas are absolutely, not only tested, but also quarantined and retested if necessary. In this regard, the minister, you and other ministers have your responsibilities. I hope you will quickly clarify the situation. What is happening is obviously not acceptable. I hope that this evening everything will be clear, coherent and quickly operationalised, and that information will be available to all those who need to benefit from it – not only tourists, but also doctors who will have to deal with this situation, employers, not to mention all those involved, for example, at airports or through other means of mobility – buses, trains – but also possibly at borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u8	That was the last question. We are in the middle of a topical and urgent debate. If, among the groups of which no member has asked a question, anyone wishes to intervene, they can. In principle, it's either now or in the replicas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u9	Madam Minister, I will be very brief because many questions have already been asked. I wonder what is happening at European level. Mr Gijbels and I live near the border, so many of our neighbours take the plane across the border, in Germany or in Maastricht, and there are completely different rules when they come back. For example, there is no form to fill in. Mrs Jiroflée already referred to the overall communication chaos, which makes it even more difficult. I hope, of course, that a harmonised policy will emerge with all the competent authorities throughout Belgium, but I also hope that there will certainly be a harmonised policy for border regions with neighbouring countries. In fact, we must strive for an EU-wide policy. There are large countries in the EU and in that sense I would like to hear you talk about regions or cities where there is a flare-up. Spain and Italy are ten times larger than Belgium, so I hope we are talking about small areas that we are going to follow closer and that we are not going to fish whole countries. You may not be able to do anything about it, Madam Secretary, but I would like to make an appeal. Yesterday, Minister Beke announced a policy on this matter as if it had already been completely knocked off. This morning, general practitioners were flooded with questions from people who have come back or who are there and who are worried, but the general practitioners do not know what to say, because the policy has not yet been adapted. So I call on everyone to communicate only when decisions are completely knocked off, because if something is decided tonight other than what Minister Beke explained last night, then the chaos, which I believe is already complete, becomes even more complete. After all, it is difficult to be surprised on 7 July that people are coming back from abroad, because on 15 June we reopened the borders. We know that people are going to travel when we open the borders, so there should have been a plan for this by 15 June. I look forward very much to what will be decided and well communicated tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u10	The crocus holiday is over, but we didn't have such good experiences. Then the Easter vacation followed, but then we were in lockdown. Now the summer holiday, as every year, has started on July 1st. That was perfectly predictable. The people were allowed to travel back, the measures were relaxed. Were there any contingency plans? It was to be expected that there would be an outbreak somewhere in a country. Have you discussed with the Foreign Minister whether and when negative travel advice is issued? What are the criteria for doing so? Mrs Creemers has already stated that the test criteria and guidelines for doctors have not yet been adapted. The old guidelines are still on the website of Sciensano. There is also no mention of people who have been and are returning abroad. In the meantime, regions abroad have been closed down. What about us? Can we do this here? Is the control tower that was mentioned a while ago already operational? Can we count on that if this is necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u11	How are the discussions on the European plan going? Can you give us some more information about that? It is important that the borders can be monitored and that the rules are similar, especially in neighbouring countries. It's a huge search for a lot of people. It's chaotic. We should draw better lines in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u12	I am glad that Mrs Creemers once again pointed out that the borders were reopened on 15 June. On 16 June I already asked whether there was a holiday corona plan. All the Minister replied was that if you want a coronaproof vacation, you should stay in your barn. From the answer I deduced that there is indeed no plan. Madam Secretary, I ask the question again. Is there a plan of action? If so, what is the plan? Will this be a concrete step forward? Do you think it is necessary to test and quarantine returning holidaymakers? How will you organise this in concrete terms? Will a negative travel advice be issued to those countries and regions where there is already a corona flare-up?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u13	Mr President, first of all I would like to say that a great deal of work has been done in recent weeks. The European Council's proposal was to reopen the European external borders from 1 July for a European white list of countries and to extend the existing list of categories of exception. Our country did not respond to this, following an opinion from Celeval that the epidemiological situation was not favourable to certain countries outside the Schengen area. What we are talking about is people coming back from European countries belonging to the Schengen area, but they were there when an increased transmission of the virus was detected. As a result, this is regarded as areas with a higher risk. Saturday afternoon Spain decided to lock one and then another zone again. Apparently, Mrs Fonck did not quite understand what I said as the only one who was available. I have said that, firstly, we must apply for a test from our general practitioner as soon as possible and, secondly, we must avoid contact with other people until we have the result. Afterwards, normal quarantine measures continue when positive or negative, as is done according to the current testing and tracing for people infected here. It is the same when one is infected here or abroad, on the train or on the plane, when one has been in contact with a person who may infect you. I have been asked to do so, and I have replied, Mrs Fonck, that I cannot require it because I do not have the authority to do so. That is a competence of the Communities. I'm not saying that. That's what the Council of State says. We have to take that into account. Here we are now pretending to be on an island and from the moment we cross the border, we would see masses of viruses around us. Fortunately, other people don't feel that way. Is it ideal to go on a trip now? No. Are there any dangerous areas? Yes. Every day this is updated by the State Department. On the website of Foreign Affairs you can look this up and you can see a map with zones and colors, namely green, orange and red. It is not recommended to leave for areas where there is a higher risk. For some areas there is a negative travel advice issued by Foreign Affairs. Mrs Fonck, you say that I have given three different answers, but that was on three different questions. The people themselves must take responsibility, decide not to go to those regions and change their ticket and journey, because it is too dangerous a zone. It is the Regions that have to adopt the legal basis. They must find an agreement at the Inter-Ministerial Conference (ICM) this evening to do the same. After all, why should there be a different regime for a Waal, a Fleming or a Brusselser in the same situation? That is what Mr Beke said. I have noted that Mr Maron, who is responsible for Brussels, agrees that it would be useful to take the same measures throughout the country. And of course we must not forget the German-speaking Community. On 1 July there was the opinion of the RAG. The RMG then adopted that opinion on 3 July, the meeting, which was originally scheduled for 4 July, was converted into an RMG opinion. The RMG makes it clear that tests must be carried out, that travel to problematic areas must be avoided and prevented, and that if one does accidentally end up in such a zone, one must be quarantined and have a test taken by the general practitioner. I think that is clear. One will do so for any place where one can come into contact with the virus. The legal basis must be created in the respective parliaments, but we are already adopting these provisions as a rule. There are fireplaces here and there, which are quite different in nature: among fruit pickers in a rural area in Spain, in Lisbon and in a number of other countries. All these countries are also coming out of the lockdown. When people have more contacts and also loosen up in their contacts, it is normal that there are repercussions. That could happen in our country, too. Everyone pretends that the virus has already left our country, but it hasn't. There are still a few dozen infected people and some new hospitalizations a day. It is now up to the IMC to coordinate the measures and see what to do when people from those regions return. This is strongly linked to the agreements made in the IMC about what to do if someone has had a suspicious contact or if, for example, a positive contact was established in the working environment. The Foreign Affairs Committee's opinions must be followed. It has also been said that there will be no repatriations. People have to take responsibility for themselves. Last Saturday we immediately enabled Saniport. They started talking to the passengers of those flights. Three people have indicated that they have been in the region in question. They have received a form containing information on what to do. Mrs Fonck, there is no question here of improvisation. We know what to do, but no legal basis. The tests are there and must be done as soon as possible. In the event of a positive test, the test must be repeated after the fifth day. And, when the result is negative, the person still has at least ten days of confinement or quarantine. As far as certificates are concerned, the procedure is the same as for other people who come into contact with the virus. There are, on the one hand, certificates of illness in case of symptoms and, on the other hand, certificates of quarantine if the person is not sick but must stay at home. Mrs Creemers, there is no question of European harmonisation. Through Foreign Affairs, we have had contacts with our neighbouring countries. Our Dutch and French neighbours allow almost everyone to land, so people can easily get to Belgium from there. We try to sit together with the neighbouring countries, as our country is very easily accessible from other countries. Europe does not, in fact, create harmonisation either. You might be okay with that, and I'm okay with that. It is left to the Member States themselves. Clusters and risk zones will be monitored. Sciensano gets the figures from ECDC and also maintains contact with Foreign Affairs, so that the ball is played very briefly. If a new fireplace appears somewhere, the travel advice should be changed. Are there any risks involved in travelling, as Mrs Sneppe asks? Yes, of course. Those who do not want to run any risk of entering an infected zone must remain in their own home and garden. However, people will not be prevented from travelling. At least I know a lot of people who travel or have travel plans. When there's a riot somewhere, it's recorded by Sciensano. There is a kind of control tower in operation, even though not many cases are known yet. Tracking and tracing, as defined by the Inter-Federal Committee, takes place in all Länder. A comparison with the crocus vacation is a bit weird, as the situation is not the same at all. Several virologists have already denied that resemblance. In February some countries were affected locally, but we did not yet know that the virus was already spread. The ski resorts were not at risk at the time, but only afterwards we knew that so many infections have occurred there. Due to border traffic we also received strains of the virus from Paris, London and Germany. The virus was already spreading in Europe. Back then, we had case definitions with a link of traveling to certain areas. The case definition was therefore changed over and over again. Now there is a pandemic, which means that the virus is everywhere in the world, and still in our country. Apparently, that is not so clear in this committee anymore. There are, of course, areas in Europe where the risk is greater than in our country, but there are also areas where the risk is lower than in our country. As far as compulsory testing and quarantine are concerned, these points will be discussed with the Länder today because they belong to their legal powers. They are currently studying the development of emergency decrees in order to be able to place these positive cases in quarantine. In the context of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, it is not evident to legally require people who are not sick or contagious to go into quarantine. However, the meeting that we will have at 7 p.m. mainly concerns coordination between the Länder. Reference was made to an opinion of the GEES on 24 June in which they asked for clarity on the quarantine measures. However, it concerned another category, namely foreign tourists who were found to be infected here. So that opinion was not about this situation. This issue was subsequently included within the RMG. Measures have been taken at the airport but people travel with all kinds of means of transport. People who may have had contact in contaminated areas, whether they have reached their destination by plane, train or car, are now all being treated in the same way. There are also countries that require certificates of a negative test in advance, but that is not a final issue either. Furthermore, advice indicates that temperature scans have little impact and that temperature screening cannot rule out contamination. All these risks have been evaluated by the RMG. They consider that measuring the temperature is not effective and that sampling is only a snapshot that cannot provide certainty as the person may still be in the incubation period. Belgium has called on the European Union Health Security Committee to co-ordinate external access crackdowns at European level in line with the recommendations of ECDC. After all, there are great differences. In this respect, the European Commission has already published a communication in the past, in which it is indeed advocating a European approach to reopening the external borders to the so-called third countries. That is something we fully support through the Minister for the Interior. For the time being, the contact forms are only used for people returning by plane. This may also be considered for rail passengers. To do so, we need to look at what is happening in other countries. There is also the not insignificant Schengen Convention, which Belgium has co-signed and which means that participating countries no longer have internal borders and only place surveillance at the common external borders. It is therefore not obvious to organise checks here at national borders. We must also be aware that travelling in immediate neighbouring countries is actually comparable to travelling in our own country. After all, you can end up in a higher risk zone here too. So what we recommend is to definitely consult the Foreign Affairs website several times, to see what the situation is like before departure. It is also advisable to consult the website, while one is on the spot, so that one knows what is going on. It is important that tonight's Inter-Ministerial Conference reach an agreement to coordinate policy in this area. That would be a very good thing. I hear that Mr Beke, also through Mrs Moykens, the chairman of the Inter-Federal Committee, has repeated that they want the same thing. Mr Maron has also communicated to this effect. We shall see tonight what the Minister responsible for Wallonia's position is. We'll get through it. Tomorrow morning there will be the Consultation Committee, after which it will be possible to reconnect to the respective parliaments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u14	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We shall now proceed to the replies. I will apply the Rules of Procedure and give each paragraph two minutes before reply. I didn't do that to the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u15	Minister, you tried to drown the fish. You referred to the report of the WEAG of 24 June, but I was referring to the report of the WEAG of 3 June. In this report of the GEES of 3 June addressed to the Prime Minister and to the Kern – of which you are a member – on page 17 it is clearly stated: "Monitor epi-data across the EU and be ready to install quarantine for workers from regions or countries with flare-ups". There was therefore, from 3 June, the recommendation to have a plan for travellers returning from countries or areas where there is a resurgence of the virus. Today we see that there is no plan. It's really outrageous! Of course, the situation is not exactly the same as after the carnival holidays. If we have to remember one thing, it is that we need to anticipate much more and that we need to detect the first cases as quickly as possible and advise to test and quarantine ourselves, which we did not do at that time. The first thing is to know who the people involved are. I read in the newspaper that people who come back from Girona or Barcelona are asked to fill out a contact form. But if we find out that there is a resurgence of the virus in a region in Italy and that people are returning by plane or train, can we tell them so that they can actually contact their treating doctor? It seems to me that this is not the case. It's also your responsibility. As Minister of Health, you should have made sure that this was discussed at the June interdepartmental conferences. As far as treating doctors and procedures are concerned, we learn in the press that it is advisable to take a test. But on the Sciensano site, the procedures are not up-to-date. There are flights every day and every day, we receive calls from patients who wonder what they should do. Things aren't clear. I conclude that it is time to change because, in this country, I would say that everyone is competent but no one is responsible!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u16	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I agree with you that the comparison with what happened on the occasion of the carnival holiday is intellectually unethical. The analysis of the situation in the countries where Belgians are allowed to travel is monitored on a day-to-day basis. In fact, my question was not about this aspect. It targeted places where an unpredictable resurgence of coronavirus was found by definition. In my view, harmonisation between the different entities of the country with regard to measures relating to persons returning from areas of risk is necessary. I know that a decision on this matter will be made tonight. I believe that it would have been more interesting to hear you after this decision was communicated, but the majority of our committee decided otherwise. In any event, I hope that harmonisation can take place in order to avoid an anxious climate. We will therefore pay close attention to the decision that will be taken this evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u17	Mr President, I have the feeling that there is no clear and unambiguous communication, that there is no coordination with extremely clear guidelines. On the one hand, experts say it is not prudent to travel. On the other hand, some argue that the situation abroad is the same as at home and that the same measures must be applied. Finally, it is not clear what is the line to follow. In my opinion, citizens are going on vacation as if the virus had almost disappeared. Things are very poorly managed. There's no anticipation. Minister, you spend your time rejecting responsibility on federated entities, explaining that their powers are clear and that it is the Council of State that says so. Madam Minister, we need a pilot on this plane, in our country! When a traveller arrives in Brussels or Wallonia, he or she must be subject to the same rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u18	The pilot in Wallonia is Mrs. Morreale!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u19	It is up to the federal government to coordinate. You must stop rejecting responsibility on federated entities, especially on the Regions. The same rules must apply to all Belgians in order to combat a possible second wave. If we do so in dispersed order, we will not be able to do so. We've already lived it during the carnival. You say it's not the same thing, but it is. The risks are well present, and we must take responsibility. It is your responsibility to take yours and coordinate the work. All precautions should be taken. That's what the Belgians expect from you!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u20	Thank you for your answers, Minister, but you didn't say anything that we didn't know or couldn't suspect. We deal with this matter every day and follow it up. That's our job. However, have you ever imagined what someone who looks at the news in the evening should think of that? Maybe people think they can still go on a journey this summer. The borders opened in June, on which people thought they could travel. After that, it appeared that the borders of some countries did not open so quickly. The borders were opened, but closed again, because there are fireplaces again. Then there are the countries outside the Schengen area. Europe published a list of countries whose inhabitants were allowed to enter, on which Belgium stated that those borders remained closed to us. This led to the introduction of a procedure which would have to be complied with by returning people, but which would have proved to have no legal basis for that procedure. You didn't declare yourself authorized on TV. Two days later, Mr Beke explained the whole procedure again and pretended, as it turned out, that everything was decided. Have you ever imagined what that poor man looking at the news on his couch must think? It's a terrible chaos, a terrible mess. I'm not saying you're entirely responsible for that. There is nothing you can do about it at the moment, of course, but you could have foreseen it, Madam Minister. You should have taken the lead weeks ago in trying to put some things in order. You could have been leading the way, as Mr Tillieux said. You should have taken the lead in that and made sure everyone was with you. I am not saying that the situation would have been different, but communication could have been much more streamlined and you would have really shown yourself to be a health minister. Apparently, no one is responsible for this, not even you. You yourself said a few days ago that it is not your competence, but that of the regions. I suppose so, but you could have foreseen it, and you could have taken the lead, so that it would have been at least a little obvious to that human looking at the news in his seat.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u21	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. Everyone was able to hear you last weekend live on TV. Everyone was able to learn about ping-pong between the Regions and the federal government. For the past two days, each has seen the regional ministers decide in the debandade. The GEES had been very clear. He had told the National Security Council that there was a need to provide for procedures for all tourists returning from areas that would eventually be reconfigured, which we are facing today. These decisions have not been operationalised or clarified. There was no procedure. We have the impression that we waited on July 7 to make a total improvisation and have to meet in ICD. Frankly, I find this quite incomprehensible. It is true that the situation between carnival and today is not the same. Except on one point: improvisation of the Belgian authorities. I don't think that's right. Minister, I would like to ask you four things. First, I ask you to align all positions tonight in CIM. It's probably too late, but at least it'll be done for tomorrow. Secondly, it is necessary for each Region to stick to it and above all for the information to be put officially on the websites so that Belgian tourists returning from risk areas, tomorrow or mid-August, can learn about clear procedures and apply them, in particular in relation to their treating doctor. Thirdly, I would ask you to reiterate to the Regions that digital tracing, with interoperability at European level, can now be quickly implemented. This seems indispensable to me in addition to manual tracing. Fourthly, there was no single European approach. That's too bad. It seems to me fundamental that at least the federal government and you can coordinate with the neighbouring countries because many Belgian tourists travel from their airports. Personally, I live on the French border and Lilles Airport is nearby. Let us at least try to coordinate with our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u22	Mr President, thank you. Minister, having heard your answers, I can say that they do not convince. We really have the impression that at the last CNS, the government decided to open most of the borders – implied, hi in kost and everyone can go on vacation! I'll meet you in September. Seven days later, clusters reappear. Maybe we should find solutions. That's not reassuring at all. Again, we can ask ourselves the question of pilotage and anticipation. I find it difficult to believe that there was no clear advice or advice from experts in this area. The question arises as to who will be monitoring the health situation this summer and who will follow the countries and clusters. It changes every day. The day before yesterday it was Lérida, yesterday it was Leicester, tomorrow it could be Perugia. People are asking for clear instructions. At this point, they have a bad conscience to go on vacation. After months of confinement, I don't think it's very fair-playing. I still have a few questions. It'll be, in a way, your shopping list for tonight's CIM. What is planned for the RAG and RMG? Will they continue to meet regularly? Are ICD watch meetings scheduled? At what rate will the list of countries at risk be updated? What will be the guidelines for physicians? Will Sciensano's testing criteria be adapted, and when will they be? You know everything can be played a week or so. We now have the ability to test and mask – the only difference with March. But it's not going to be activated on its own. Again, in the absence of a clear and unambiguous framework and the activation of a follow-up plan, although we will have all the necessary sanitary logistics, we will find ourselves in exactly the same situation as after the carnival. Finally, I would like to make a request to this committee. We are still in a worrying health situation. We are still seeing this with this topical debate which we have had to ask for as a matter of urgency. The situation requires continuous follow-up. I wanted to see with the committee whether it was possible to continue our work during the holidays, obviously at a much more spaced pace, even by Zoom. I propose a meeting towards the end of July and one around the week of 17 August, so that we do not find ourselves without follow-up and without the work of this committee during all the holidays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u23	Madam, we shall reflect on the matter, taking into account the availability of the minister, who, of course, also has the right to take a vacation. Anyway, I took note of your request. We'll come back to it later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u24	Madam Minister, in the meantime, the matters that needed to be said have already been mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u25	Madam Minister, you answered a question that I did not actually ask. I didn't ask if I could go on vacation or not. You gave the same answer as on 16 June, namely that if I want to coronaproof on vacation, I should stay home. I would like you to answer the questions I am asking, not the ones I am not asking. My question is, is there a plan? Colleagues have the same question. So it has to be that they, too, doubt whether there is a plan. You have explained some things, but our doubts as to whether there is a plan have not been removed. I read in the RMG report of 10 June that passengers will be tested on return. That report dates back to June 10th! He proposes to test returners three times: the first time at home, the second time after 7 days and the third time after 14 days. Was that proposal implemented in the meantime? Or does that have to be discussed tonight? If that advice has not yet been implemented, I would like you to take it to the meeting tonight with the request to implement it. Along with that, I would like to know whether the tests will be refunded. I have the same feeling as before the committee meeting, as I had in February, and I hope it is wrong, even though the past has already shown that this is not the case, namely that, depending on the messy communication, there is so far no plan available.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u26	Mr President, first of all, I wanted to thank you and my colleagues for having been able to organise this exchange of views, which I believe was fundamental, and to thank the ministers for having been able to free themselves – in particular Mrs De Block. Let's be good. We should not have had this exchange of views, this question should have been settled before the holidays and not during them, at a time when many citizens are already on holiday or have already booked them. I think it was necessary to establish a precise protocol before the holidays in order to settle the reception in Belgium of citizens who would return from areas at risk. I have heard your argument, minister, on the dispersal of our powers. I believe that this argument, which has been held since the beginning of the crisis, is no longer acceptable, especially since it is now known that the entities agree on the need to follow the recommendations made by the GEES with regard to testing, the setting up of fourteen Belgian tourists returning from risk areas. I remember, moreover, that you have somewhat criticized the attitude of Mr. Maingain, mayor of Woluwe-Saint-Lambert, when he took the decision for his commune to place in four quarters the citizens of his commune who were returning from areas at risk in March. Finally, we find that this is the least of the measures to be taken in this case. It seems to me that the federal government must play its part. It is true that the federated entities are competent in prevention and in order to decree the placing under fours of people at risk with the necessary testing, but upstream, the federal must play its role in defining these areas at risk. Our questions, Minister, were numerous. Why is there no specific protocol? Why did the generalists not receive instructions? Why is this communication so late and chaotic? I'm sorry to say that, but the answers we got were not clear! On the other hand, I have the impression that citizens will find themselves in even greater uncertainty and with more questions, especially when today you doubt the effectiveness of temperature-taking, a measure adopted at many airports in neighbouring countries. I'll stay there, Madam Minister. In any case, I must express my great disappointment. As we know, since the beginning of the crisis, citizens need coherence and clarity. We're a long way from it! In addition, we are setting up a Coronavirus Commission whose mission is to learn from what has been undertaken or not. Today, however, we have the opportunity to learn these lessons and find ourselves unable to do so. I regret it bitterly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u27	Minister, you're trying to pass on the hot potato to the federated entities. I started counting the number of times the words "Regions" or "federal entities" were said, but I stopped. I have a letter from the Public Health FPS in front of me. I quote from one passage: "The federal level coordinates the approach envisaged within the three Communities at both national and international levels. This is all the more justified in order to avoid different responses to the same situation, which could raise questions of consistency in the perception of the situation by the media, the public or within the political world." Mr President, I think everything is said!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u28	I turn to the minister. In principle, we're done. Questions were asked. I don't know if you'd like to take them for tonight's ICD. I suppose you will. Would you like to speak again?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u29	Mr President, this will start in ten minutes. The necessary coordination of the measures to be taken will be carried out through the Inter-Ministerial Conference. I have seen a communication from the Walloon Region; it must take the same measures, otherwise there will be no coordination. We're talking, but I don't have a hierarchical role in this ICD. I'm one of the ministers of public health. One finds the virus bad and all the work that is being done is never enough. The travel advice is an advice for the exit strategy requested by the Prime Minister. That's impossible to take or leave. Three tests were requested. Following many inter-ministerial conferences, an agreement was reached on a two-test protocol. That was so knocked off. Your communication is also in every direction. Scientists have the right to express their opinion, even if that means that they contradict each other. The virologists, the immunologists, the epidemiologists and even the bacteriologists are interfering in the debate and all have a different proposal. One says "Don't go on a trip." The other says "Don't go on a trip to where it's safe." However, we do not know in advance whether the region to which we are going will remain safe. That is the risk. There is now another confinement of a church community near Bonn, in Germany. That's a new high-risk zone. They act as if I'm going to color those zones, or as if I can predict where these zones will be. That's not true. We work very closely with the FPS Foreign Affairs, who adjusts his advice daily, and if it has to be repeated a day, to inform people with travel plans or people who are already abroad. That's a very big job. Mr President, I am at the disposal of the committee because there is no holiday for me. You may call a Zoom meeting every day, but I would like to leave for an important inter-ministerial conference, which I have to chair. The Presidency is rotating. I have the role of chairman today. That does not mean, however, that I have to coordinate and conduct what the other ministers should do. There is coordination, but everyone has their responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u30	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Does anyone want to replicate one last time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u31	Madam Secretary, you are actually placing responsibility on the people. From the moment you and the government decide that borders are opened and people are allowed to go on holiday, you have a responsibility to the whole population that there is a plan and that there are measures for travellers coming back from at-risk areas. The expert group has been recommending this since June 3, and you haven't. I do not know since when you are chairman of the Inter-Ministerial Conference, but if this is already a time, you still have a responsibility not to put that item on the agenda. Maybe you put it on the agenda. I read the reports until 17 June, when they had not yet been put on the agenda. I think you have a responsibility in that. You shouldn't blame them on others.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u32	Mrs Merckx, you're behind a few reports. In the meantime, we have had more than 20 meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u33	Those reports will not be on the website of the Public Health Office, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u34	Madam Minister, you are not being asked to be Mrs Irma to know which regions of Europe are at risk or will be reconfined tomorrow or the day after. That is not what this is about. Your responsibility, as well as the responsibility of all Ministers of Health, Ministers-Presidents of Regions and Communities and the Prime Minister, through the National Safety Council, is to develop a very clear protocol. Madam Minister, it has been learned today that doctors have refused to test a couple from Catalonia when this region is now being re-established. This means that the protocol for the return of Belgian tourists returning from reconfigured areas is anything but clear. Your job and that of the other competent people was to anticipate. You didn't. It is now time to do so. This needs to be clarified, formalized and disseminated everywhere so that everyone can apply it. We must keep a single objective in mind: to avoid a second wave, to avoid tomorrow's clusters in Belgium by returning tourists from abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic231x.u35	Mrs Fonck, thank you for this fine conclusion to this debate. We will conclude and wish the minister a good interdepartmental conference. I assume we will already hear the results in the media. Some may wish to address them later in this committee.
