ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u1	Madam President, Minister, the police must file exhibits in the context of the court files they process, and this poses a number of problems: the premises of transplants not suitable for the storage of these exhibits, the capacity for limited storage, and the destruction of old rooms. For example, for the Mons-Tournai district, police zones are limited to the deposit of 20 exhibits per working day and they may not exceed a maximum total weight. This situation leads to unnecessary and incessant movement of the police services to the transplants for such a police area with 80,000 inhabitants. Following the crisis of the VOCID-19, the transplants were closed in March. The Hainaut transplants did not reopen until June 17. Police have learned that access is possible but with various limitations, while the accumulation of these parts within the police service during the containment period would require more flexibility to address the situation and the backlog. Minister, what are the solutions envisaged to address the backlog of the VOCID-19 crisis and to temporarily increase the possibilities of transplants in order to enable the police to reduce the backlog in the accumulation of exhibits? How can we find a more suitable structural solution for the premises of the transplants and the storage of exhibits?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u2	Madam Chair, Ms. Zanchetta, most of the evidence transplants are back working normally or by appointment to periodically receive documents from police areas. However, they must comply with the distance and safety rules that may sometimes differ because of the local context and which may result in restrictions. At the end of June, consultations were held between the prosecutor's office, the court and the police services of Hainaut. It has proved to be positive and new agreements have been reached. The evidence department of the Hainaut Court of First Instance has been accessible to the police every morning by appointment since 1 July. I was also informed of the infrastructure problems of the exhibit department in Tournai. I immediately asked the administration of the FPS Justice, as well as the Régie des Bâtiments, to react quickly and adequately. A visit took place on site. It was agreed, on the one hand, to look for a new location for the rooms and, on the other hand, to carry out small adaptation work before that. These are scheduled for July.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u3	Mr Minister, I am pleased to hear that there is a consultation and that there will be ways to improve this situation, which has been reported to me in particular by the police area of La Louvière and which seems to be a problem in the context of daily work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 55007632C is converted into a written question. We have not heard from Mrs Soors. Mr Friart is not coming to the meeting. Question No 54, by Mr De Pasquale 55007723C) by Mrs Bury and others: 55007761C by Mr Thiébaut are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u5	Madam President, Minister, the UN Special Rapporteur on extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions has, on several occasions, drawn the attention of your Government and our country to the risk of arbitrary execution by one of our nationals, Bilal Al Marchohi, involved in terrorist acts. Minister, have you, as she seems to suggest in her numerous letters to your government, demanded the dispatch of agents of the State Security or sent other Belgian agents to Syria or Iraq to interrogate this Belgian jihadist and/or meet American forces? What was the agreement with the American forces in the detention of this Belgian jihadist in Syria and then in Iraq? Why didn't you arrest the man wanted by Belgian justice? Could the Federal Prosecutor's Office not have heard and prosecuted this jihadist? Have you demanded certain guarantees from the U.S. forces in the detention of the national? Or, on the contrary, do you categorically refute the rapporteur's allegations that there had been contacts between Belgian agents and Mr. Al Marchohi while guarded by the U.S. Armed Forces? In this case, why didn't you reply directly to the rapporteur? According to my information, there was no reply from the Belgian Government to the allegations of the United Nations Special Rapporteur. Do you continue to prefer trials in Iraq for our nationals despite gross violations of international law and our opposition to the death penalty continues? Have you been able to carry out a legal analysis of the trial initiated against Mr. Al Marchohi? Did you inform him of the possibility of appealing against his death sentence in Iraq? Given his death sentence, which I think is now established, will you try to repatriate him in order to judge him in accordance with Belgian, European and international law? What is your position on the fairness of his trial in Iraq? Did you follow the appeal procedure before the Iraqi Supreme Judicial Council? Has the death penalty been confirmed, and if so, for what reason? What actions will you take, following the condemnations of the United Nations Special Rapporteur, to ensure that Mr. Al Marchohi, as well as any other Belgian national concerned, is not arbitrarily executed in Iraq? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u6	Minister, the UN calls on Belgium to return the jihadist Bilal Al Marchohi sentenced to death in Iraq to Belgium as soon as possible in order to have him tried before a Belgian court. The question then arises as to how we will get that burden of proof. The person concerned called himself Abu Fadil and left for Syria in 2013. That Antwerp Sharia4Belgiumsympathisant worked in the Syrian stronghold of IS in the religious police. He had contact in Syria with several other Belgian and Dutch Syrian fighters. He is linked to people from the radical terrorist circles in Molenbeek and indirectly to Abdelhamid Abaaoud, the brains behind the attacks in Paris. That information comes from the personnel file that Islamic State made up about him. "After a repatriation, Al Marchohi could be tried and judged in Belgium in accordance with international law," UN rapporteur Callamard wrote in a letter on 7 May. According to Al Marchohi's lawyer, the Belgian authorities did not reply. Mr. Secretary, what do you know about that story? Is it true that the Belgian Government did not reply to the UN rapporteur's letter? What's the reason for this? If you are aware of the issue, what exactly are you aware of? Is it currently being considered to repatriate the jihadist sentenced to death to Belgium? Will Belgium actively bring a convicted terrorist back to our society to try him again here? On what grounds would that happen? Can agreements be reached with the Iraqi government on this at all? If the government responds to the request, what will prevent other Belgian Syrian fighters from enforcing the same favor? It seems to me to be a dangerous precedent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u7	Colleagues, the Special Rapporteur's questions are currently under discussion. The difficulty of answering your questions, as well as those of the Special Rapporteur, lies in the fact that the government does not, in principle, communicate on the concrete actions of the intelligence services. I cannot therefore confirm or invalidate the information provided by the United Nations Special Rapporteur on this point. I can only point out that State Security acts within a strict framework defined by law and with significant control over its activities, among others by Parliament. I would also like to recall my previous remarks: the Belgian authorities have not been consulted with regard to a transfer to the Iraqi authorities and have for the most part not given their consent to such a transfer. As far as criminal proceedings against the person concerned are concerned, the Federal Prosecutor authorizes me to communicate to you the following: "The Federal Prosecutor's Office is extremely careful with the exchange of information with the Iraqi judicial authorities. Belgian legislation prohibits cooperation in criminal matters with countries that apply the death penalty if the information exchanged is likely to be used by the State in question to apply the death penalty. In this case, the appeal procedure is still under way. The possibility of hearing the person concerned on the spot via a rogatory commission was considered. However, in view of the experience of a similar approach, in another case, both the investigating judge and the federal prosecutor consider that the minimum security conditions are not currently met for both magistrates and police officers. On 25 March 2019, a letter rogatory was sent to the Iraqi authorities asking them to transmit a copy of the investigation into Al Marchohi Bilal and a copy of the judgement of 19 March 2019. This rogatory commission was executed by the Iraqi authorities. An international arrest warrant was drafted by the investigating judge for participation in the activities of a terrorist group. The issue of the alert implies an unrestricted international notification of the person concerned. However, the Iraqi authorities have never responded to this report or requested the release of this arrest warrant." The government's position on foreign fighters held in Syria and Iraq remains that they should be prosecuted and tried on the ground. This must be done in compliance with fundamental rights and without using the death penalty. Belgium unreservedly condemns the use of the death penalty, including, of course, its own nationals, regardless of the crimes in question. In the case referred to above, that position was also clearly stated. For the questions on consular assistance, I can confirm that assistance has been provided as far as possible and taking into account the situation. For the rest, I would like to refer you to the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u8	Mr Minister, there are two things, one of which is the United Nations Special Rapporteur who says it is wrong, and in this case it is urgent that your Government be able to deny these claims that Belgian special agents of intelligence were sent to the spot, in particular to meet this Belgian jihadist, but also to negotiate the detention and dispatch to Iraq with the US armed forces. Either the UN Special Rapporteur says true and, in this case, it is even more serious, since Belgium is involved in the death penalty of one of our nationals and in a flagrant violation of all its rights to the European Convention on Human Rights. Minister, I invite you to make transparency on this matter as soon as possible. I will, of course, also ask the Foreign Minister, Mr Goffin, as soon as possible, and I will ask you again because we need to know the truth. We need to know whether or not Belgian special agents have been sent to Syria. The question is simple and must be answered by your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u9	I have a little less pity than my colleague from Groen-Ecolo. Let me make one thing clear: we are also opposed to the death penalty in principle. That is what we have always said. The right to decent punishment is precisely one of the core values of our society. But Al Marchohi has consciously turned against our society and therefore our values. He even fought them in Syria. I think he knew very well that the death penalty was in force there. That, by the way, is something they themselves are arguing for. I have a few more comments to make. I keep asking questions about the extradition treaty with Iraq. We should bring terrorists from Iraq here, but sending Iraqi criminals and terrorists back to Iraq is not possible. That's questionable. Maybe the government should take a look at that. Suppose Al Marchohi is repatriated after all? What will happen then? He gets five years in prison and is released after two years of effective imprisonment, because we have no proof, we have no one there to get the evidence. Minister, even you will agree with me that two years of punishment is far too short, let alone to deradicalize someone. Anyone who says that we should bring these people here because they can be controlled will tell us, because the security of the State is being questioned by that service. I understand that consular assistance has been provided to El Marchohi. I will ask an additional question about this after the recess. Apparently, we are now being addressed by the UN by letter. You are now saying that the matter is being investigated. I hope that you will also communicate openly what exactly is true, what is in that letter, who received it and when.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u10	Madam President, Minister, I do not want to resurrect the whole story of the masks, but I would like to present you with a specific case. On June 4, you stated in the media that all filters were delivered to all local authorities. In my home town of Sint-Niklaas, I cannot speak for other municipal authorities, not all filters have been delivered until today. There was still a missing fate. Your services gave us a list of firms where the city administration could order the missing filters. So you couldn't deliver them anymore. Minister, are there any local authorities that have not received all the filters? Why weren't those missing filters delivered? It is important that all residents receive the filters. Will the federal government intervene financially if the local authorities order the missing filters?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u11	Mr Buysrogge, I can confirm that all 22 million filters ordered by the federal government have been distributed to cities and municipalities through the Defence chain and the provinces. According to enquiries from the FPS Economy and Defense, which worked out and executed the concrete distribution plan in five waves to the cities and municipalities, it appears that 148,800 filters were provided to Sint-Niklaas for a population of 77,678. Sint-Niklaas was delivered on 4, 8, 15, 22 and 29 May with 5,800, 23,800, 30,800, 40,800 and 47,600 filters respectively. For the distribution, the FPS Economy is based on the population on 1 January 2019. In the concrete distribution, Defense has completed hundreds for purely practical reasons, for the packaging of bulk deliveries by city and by municipality. I would also like to tell you that the filters are primarily intended for plus-12-year-olds. This information was delivered to the services of the city of Sint-Niklaas at the end of May. During the process of deliveries to cities and municipalities, a number of cities or municipalities asked specific questions about the numbers and timing of delivery. Those questions related to changes in liver schedules per wave of distribution, as the volumes for the distribution per wave were adapted to the liver capacity of the producing companies. As already indicated, all filters are divided. The federal government has no intention of ordering additional filters. On 11 June, at the request of the city services of Sint-Niklaas, the contacts were transferred to the two producing companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u12	Mr Minister, I conclude from your reply that Saint Nicholas is a single case where not all filters have been delivered. Your calculations are correct: there are about 6,000 filters too few to deliver one to all residents. I am reassured that it is only about Sint-Niklaas, but it seems only logical to me that the invoices for additional orders from city or municipality authorities that have not been able to deliver a filter to all their inhabitants and which were requested by your services to order filters from other companies are paid by the federal government. That seems logical to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u13	Mrs van Peel, given their powers, I have questioned both the Attorney General of Brussels and Liège and I can tell you the following in relation to the Victim's Home Office. In principle, the service is always informed when a Sexual Aggression Set, SAS., is used. However, within the framework of an oral parliamentary question, it is not possible to provide statistics on this. An automatic referral to the Victim's Home Office in all cases of sexual violence is impossible given that about nine thousand cases of rape and violation of dignity enter the public prosecutors every year. Courthouses cannot take on such numbers. However, victims who report to the Care Centres after Sexual Violence are offered the services of the Victim Reception Service. The victim policy expertise network will work as a priority to update the circular COL 17/2012. This concerns respectful handling of the deceased, the announcement of his death, the dignified farewell and the cleaning of the place of the facts in case of intervention by the judicial authorities. A number of provisions need to be integrated as a matter of urgency since the terrorist attacks in Belgium. The expertise network will then evaluate the circular COL 16/2012 on the victim reception at the parquets and courts. There has also been continuous consultations with the Communities in this area. The representatives of the three Communities participate in the work of the Expertise Network which is currently focusing on the implementation of the Law of 5 May 2019 amending the Law of 17 May 2006 on the external legal status of detainees. The Communities were also closely involved in the creation of a single point of contact for the victims of the attacks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand your point that it is about so many things. That in itself is poignant. With current capacity, it would be very difficult to refer nine thousand cases. However, we cannot avoid the criticism of the Supreme Court of Justice. This criticism states that there is still a problem here. There is too little awareness and yet too little referral. In any case, steps must be taken in one way or another. Perhaps the automatic referral is not the best step, but I would like to follow you in that. I'll think about it myself first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u15	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 5, by Mrs Soors: Question No 5, by Mr Friart 55007657C by Mrs Jadin will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u16	Madam President, Minister, I refer to my written question. One question would normally be answered last week, but the committee did not go through. In the meantime, I understand that this question has given rise to the investigation by the Deputy Prosecutor of the King, so I suspect that you will resume some of his reply there. In addition, I submitted an additional question on the basis of the information published in the newspaper following that investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u17	Mr Segers, as you said, I think there is a mistake with regard to your question No. 55007832C. At the committee meeting of 11 March 2020, I replied to the same questions and no new elements could be communicated. Mrs Gabriels, Mr Segers, I will first answer your general questions concerning disappearances and then the specific questions relating to the Vietnamese minors. With regard to the problem of the reception of minor victims of trafficking in human beings and the disappearance of minors from reception centres, I must say that the reception centres fall within the competence of Mr De Block. I would also like to refer to my colleague for certain questions concerning the operation and decisions of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Fedasil. When finding an unaccompanied minor stranger, the police and the public prosecutor shall judge on the basis of facts and circumstances whether there is a suspicion of trafficking in human beings or trafficking in human beings. The joint circular of 23 December 2016 on the introduction of a multidisciplinary cooperation on the victims of trafficking in human beings is in force here and provides for the reception of victims. This is, of course, true and all the more so for unaccompanied minors to whom youth protection law applies. When an unaccompanied minor is notified by the police, the public prosecutor or any other service or person, the Voogdij Service is always vigilant for elements or signals indicating trafficking in human beings or trafficking in human beings. The Voogdij department immediately appoints a guardian who has experience with this problem. In case of least suspicion, young people shall be accommodated in a specialised centre for trafficking in human beings or in the reception centres, at the decision of Fedasil. With regard to police expertise on the smuggling of Vietnamese minors, the federal police do indeed have the necessary expertise to combat all forms of trafficking in human beings, regardless of nationality. The national picture of trafficking in human beings published annually by the federal police demonstrates this expertise. As human trafficking is an international phenomenon, the federal judicial police are increasingly forced to cooperate with the police forces of the other Member States of the Union. In this context, Belgium is involved in numerous European action plans, which, under the auspices of Europol, are determined by the European Commission's policy to combat organised crime. Of course, the prosecution is also involved. The NGOs you mentioned are not working together. As far as the disappearance of 44 Vietnamese minors since 2017 is concerned, I have put the questions to the College of Attorney General. I was informed that these 44 disappearances concern the whole territory and that in this short period of time no response can be given to individual cases, including whether or not the persons concerned reside in the centres, whether or not they report to Child Focus and the ongoing investigations. Disappearances are in principle first notified to the police forces. The magistrate then assesses whether it is an alarming disappearance and whether it is appropriate to engage Child Focus' additional services. Regarding the incident of Friday evening 11 October 2019, the Attorney General of Brussels informed me of the following: "On Friday evening 11 October 2019, the Dutch police conducted an observation of a taxi carrying two Vietnamese minors. They tracked this vehicle from the Netherlands to an address in Anderlecht. It was only when the Dutch police services were already in Anderlecht that an authorisation for this cross-border observation was requested via the Belgian police. The parquet magistraat van acht van het Brusselse parquet allowed this cross-border observation at high urgency. The District Attorney's Office in Brussels contacted the Dutch prosecutor who dealt with the file. The latter requested that no investigation be carried out for the time being and reported that he would contact again the next Monday to provide more information and discuss further cooperation, which ultimately did not happen. In consultation with the Belgian police services, the Paradetmagistraat van vacht in Brussels evaluated whether the available information made it possible to take its own initiative. It did not consider this possible as insufficient information on their file was still shared by the Dutch authorities in their request to authorise the cross-border observation at high urgency. Moreover, the Vietnamese family, registered at the address in Anderlecht where the two Vietnamese minors entered, was not known to the police and the taxi with which they were transported, was not known for human trafficking. The Dutch judicial authorities which conducted the investigation therefore expressly requested that no further investigation be carried out. The Brussels Magistrate in question decided to comply with this request."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u18	In the meantime, Minister, you know me as someone who asks his questions very quietly, but this answer makes me quite angry, to be honest. Anything you say, I've already been able to hear in the newspaper, after the investigation of the Deputy Attorney of the King. His conclusion was that the Brussels court is not to blame. Then it's insinuated that it's the way I ask my questions, like that's some kind of suspicion. I specifically asked if the Voogdijk Service had been contacted immediately? I didn't hear the answer. I understand that this was not the case. Well, the law requires this to happen. The quote says: "The Brussels parquet is not to blame." Well, that's my first reproach. Then the second one's accusing me. The Brussels parquet had to contact the reference street for trafficking in human beings and trafficking in human beings. I asked you if that happened. I didn't get an answer to that either. I'm assuming again that this didn't happen. Therefore, I have some serious questions regarding the quote of the deputy attorney of the King. The Brussels parquet is not to blame? The Dutch parquet lets the Brussels parquet know not to intervene, wait and it promises to call back Monday. That did not happen, because the Brussels parquet said it was important enough. Next, the Dutch parquet doesn't call. I don't know why. But we can expect the Brussels parquet to make its own phone call. How hard can it be? The Brussels parquet is supposedly not to be blamed, but what happened between the Monday on which the Dutch parquet would call, but it did not, and the final facts? I asked you to do that. Again, you didn't answer that. That raises questions again. Well, Minister, I heard that those young people were still present at that address in Anderlecht at that time. So we should not have waited for the phone call from the Netherlands. One had to take an active attitude at least. In the Netherlands, by the way, they were perfectly ready to take them back into the shelter. There was a report of missing persons reported to the police immediately after the disappearance. So they should have been returned immediately. In the Netherlands there was clearly more on its qui-vive than was the case here. Finally, the Brussels parquet also claims that it could not have known that there was trafficking in human beings. Really, I can't believe it. The Brussels parquet knew it was a Vietnamese minor, with a taxi collected from the half-closed shelter in the Netherlands. How many more clues should there be to think that there may be trafficking in human beings? With such a claim, there seems to be no culture in the fight against trafficking in human beings. Minister, I know you a little bit, but this answer is not enough. To be honest, I am sure that it is not enough for you either, and I hope that you will look at what really happened there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Reception is indeed the responsibility of Minister De Block, but most of the questions were about the jurisdiction of Justice. You have replied in general. You have answered the story of Anderlecht in concrete terms, but I do not go into that in more detail, since that was an answer to a question from Mr Segers. From your answer, however, I conclude that the College of Attorney General did not respond to the general question about the disappearance of those 44 children and why 17 were not reported to Child Focus. The fact that no answer can be given also means that there is no investigation, I think I can conclude. This really is about the most vulnerable in our society. As Mr Segers says, we really must follow that up, because 44 is not nothing. I believe that in future the parquet should make this a real priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u20	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Bury's 55007723C will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiébaut converted 55007761C into a written question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55007776C, 55007789C and 55007793C by Mrs Khattabi are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 77007809C by Mr Van Hecke is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u21	Mr Segers, on Tuesday 16 June the prisoners of two sections refused to come back after the walk. The inmates informed the management that they wanted more information about the new visitation scheme, including physical contact. The new instructions, which increased the number of visitors admitted, were only distributed nationally on that day and were therefore not officially communicated at that time. At first, the board listened to the complaints and sighs of the prisoners. Since the inmates weren't ready to go back in yet, the police were contacted. Five police officers arrived on the scene, primarily with the aim of convincing the prisoners to return to the premises. After having received more information about the new visit instructions at that time, all prisoners have returned to their wards quietly. The police weren't supposed to intervene and no violence was committed. Consequently, the management considered it necessary to normalise the situation again and no disciplinary sanctions were pronounced against the detainees. I would like to stress that the conduct of a collective action in itself is not a breach of discipline, nor, of course, a crime, as long as it does not jeopardise security or order in prison. The Court of Justice of the Council of State confirms that. The action referred to was rather an expression of the demand for clarity and prospects. Everything has gone peacefully, without abominables. I would like to point out that three prisoners who, during the course of the action, were guilty of peeing, have been subject to disciplinary sanctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u22	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u23	Mr Minister, this morning the Finance Committee received Mr Steven Vanden Berghe, President of the Anticipated Decisions Service. He said a few weeks ago that billions of euros of dirty money were hiding in Belgian bank accounts. He said that he estimated the dirty money on the bank accounts of Belgian citizens at EUR 50 billion. In the past, there have been several regularization operations, poorly named DLU (single release declaration). The citizens concerned were then allowed to regularize the interest on capital without having to justify the origin of capital. I quote Mr Vanden Berghe: "During the 2006 campaign until mid-2013, more than EUR 5 billion of revenue was regularised. But in the vast majority of cases, the underlying capital has been repatriated to Belgian accounts, but not regularised." These unregulated billions of euros now feel "safe" on Belgian accounts, because tax offences are prescribed, but Mr Vanden Berghe points out that the prosecution can still prosecute owners and banks for money laundering. These criminally punishable acts are not prescribed. You will agree that these are interpelling statements, which cannot leave us indifferent when they come from a senior official. We know the priority to be given to the fight against tax fraud and the budgetary difficulties of the State, especially in the post-coronavirus period. Minister, have you read the statements of Mr Vanden Berghe? Has an initial minutes been drawn up on the basis of those minutes? Has an investigation or investigation been conducted on this basis? What investigative services, if any? If not, do you intend to use your right to a positive injunction under article 274 of the Judicial Code to initiate such an investigation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u24	Madam President, Mr Gilkinet, I have read Mr Vanden Berghe's statements through the press, after which I asked the Brussels Prosecutor General who gave me the following answer: "I am not aware of the drafting of an initial minutes on this subject. There would be no point in writing one as long as the Director of the Anticipated Decisions Service did not cite any potentially identifiable persons." I would like to point out that, in the absence of a report to the Public Prosecutor's Office of concrete facts constituting a punishable fiscal offence, a positive injunction to initiate criminal proceedings would be of little use. Moreover, the Public Prosecutor's Office is not, if it so wishes, legally entitled to obtain without further formality access to the data of all Belgian taxpayers' accounts from our financial institutions. This would constitute an unlawful phishing operation which cannot be justified. Finally, I would like to point out that, in my opinion, the majority of tax offences, and in any event minor tax offences, can be better detected and punished administratively by the tax authorities than judicially by the public prosecutor. Criminal proceedings may, as the case may be, be initiated after consultation in cases of serious tax fraud, whether or not the latter is organised. I refer you for the surplus to my colleague in Finance, who has authority over the Tax Adjustment Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u25	Minister, I cannot content myself with your answer. Indeed, it is not a question of targeting all citizens and carrying out a phishing operation. The aim is to look at people who, on the basis of DLU 2 and DLU 3, have regulated capital interests without regulating capital. A senior official has informed us that criminal offences may have been committed in this regard. I can only believe it. He cites an amount of EUR 50 billion, which is nothing but annoyance. If there is no point in drafting an initial report or a positive injunction from the minister, I shall lose my Latin. We know where the information is. It is located at the level of the Anticipated Decisions Service, the Contact Point-Regularizations. I find it difficult to understand as much passivity on your part and on the part of the public prosecutor as every time I ask you, as is the case with all your colleagues in the government, you answer that the fight against tax fraud is a priority. I have the impression that if I were a member of a government, I would be interested in the matter. In fact, 50 billion euros are not regularised and this represents a particularly large sum, all the more so at a time when we are experiencing considerable budgetary difficulties which require a great deal of effort to get out of it. I can therefore only encourage you and the prosecutor's office, while respecting the latter's autonomy, to reconsider your position.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u26	Minister, I have asked my question in a somewhat unusual way, not only because it is concise, but also because it has been put on the basis that some things can become very disproportionate, in order to be friendly. It concerns the case in which minors have been personally and financially controlled. It is about minors with a very limited income of a few hundred euros of resources, without any context or family left and who have had a miserable childhood and youth. However, it appears that they receive an invoice from the administrator amounting to one quarter of their annual income. First of all, Minister, could that happen? Secondly, is this situation, in your opinion, plausible, acceptable and proportionate? Thirdly, if the answer to the second question is 'no', what can we do about it? I do not deny that I am asking the question, because it is completely unfortunate that such situations exist and because I believe that something should be done about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u27	Mr Crombez, the question refers to minors who are dependent on themselves and to a procedure of protection. That definition does not make it clear to which regime of protection of minors the question relates. In principle, a child until his adulthood remains under the parental authority of his parents. In exceptional circumstances, for example when the parents have died, the child may be placed under custody. Another possibility is the detachment from the age of fifteen in marriage or a decision of the family court. In that case, the minor shall be assisted in the management of his property by a curator. In either case, costs may be incurred by the regime. However, they are limited and always under the control of the judge. Article 488/1 of the Civil Code lays down the only system of protection for minors which may give rise to the appointment of a director and thus to his or her remuneration. This concerns the situation of a minor aged 17 years or over who is established that, because of his state of health, he will not be able to properly observe his own interests of a property or non-property nature without assistance or other protection measures. In such a case, the peace court may, after examining the periodic reports, award the director a remuneration the amount of which may not exceed 3% of the minor's income. This remuneration may be increased by the costs incurred and an allowance for extraordinary duties, but only by the Court of Justice of the Peace. Finally, if the question were to relate earlier to measures in the field of youth protection, it would fall within the competence of the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u28	Minister, the question has been asked widely, partly because of the last part of your answer. I believe that this question should not be dealt with by passing on parliamentary questions between governments. We cannot ask specific questions about individual cases. It is a very specific case of a minor who is not yet 17 years old and who has been placed under management on a personal and financial level. The income of the minor shall be EUR 600 per month and one quarter of it shall be invoiced by the administrator, without any objection. That is the specific situation. I will provide you with the data, because I know that you will certainly be interested in how this can be done within the context you described. I don't think that's possible, and it's even rude. Things can escape regulation and the functioning of the magistrate, but these are things that happen and I think we should do something about them as soon as possible when we see them. I will take an initiative myself, but I am sure that if you, as Minister of Justice, are to see such a thing, you will not hesitate to do what is necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u29	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns a file recently published in the media about the Dutch police raid at the Belgian border near Essen. Such things are expected in a bad Netflix movie, but maybe I'm naive. My question is about the Belgian share in this dossier and more specifically about cooperation with the Dutch police services. Can you give me more information on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u30	Mrs Gabriels, I have submitted your questions to the federal prosecutor, who has given me the following information: 'Here and now the information, coming from certain press releases on the basis of which the parliamentary question is asked, should be left on behalf of the press releases. In so far as it was possible to check with the competent judicial and police authorities and departments, the parliamentary question is based on a factual basis which cannot be confirmed. As confirmed by Eurojust in the press release following the judicial action against EncroChat, it involved an investigation of the Joint Investigation Team between France and the Netherlands. Belgium wasn't on the Joint Investigation Team. Referring to Eurojust's official communication, Belgium, like many other European and other countries, will be the recipient of any results relevant to Belgium from the Joint Investment Team's investigation, which will then be analysed by the Belgian authorities."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for the clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic236x.u32	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Freilich's 55007637C lapsed.
