ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u1	Colleagues, I apologise for the delay, partly due to a change of venue. Given the very short time-frame for our meeting and our ambition to be able to end within the agreed time-limit, so that we do not have to organise an additional committee meeting, I suggest that we start immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u2	Do some members wish to ask questions to the ministers present? I salute Minister Ducrame, Mrs Muylle and the members of Mr Bacquelaine's cabinet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u3	Mr President, Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you, together with your colleagues, for allowing additional assistance to be given to all those who are vulnerable and who, as a result of the crisis, are at increased risk of being confronted with an even more difficult situation. These people found themselves with additional costs related to containment, such as higher food costs, as a result of the closure of food banks or giving a hot meal to children, while schools were closed, etc. This additional assistance until the end of the year is a good thing. However, the following is not immediately reflected in the Royal Decree: will this premium be granted per beneficiary or per household? What is the amount budgeted for this assistance? Will the State implement this or will the aid be distributed through the relevant bodies, such as the CPAS, DG People with Disabilities or the Federal Pension Service?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u4	Madam Minister, we can support the reasoning behind the measures contained in Royal Decree No. 47 understand. The financial problems of certain poorer groups in our society as a result of the corona crisis cannot be denied. However, the allocation of a lump sum of EUR 50 per month to all social assistance recipients, without taking into account effective and specific additional costs and needs of the persons concerned, does not seem to us to be an optimal solution and not a sensible one. Efficient use of public funds requires a well-considered and highly targeted allocation of resources. We do not therefore agree with the arbitrary allocation of a cheque of EUR 50 to those entitled, without taking into account the individual situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u5	Mr President, we are absolutely in favour of such a premium. Those who were already struggling financially became even more vulnerable in the crisis because of the price increases. Such a premium is certainly a positive thing. Since we are based not so much on the status of the persons concerned but on their income, we would also like to see the contribution extended to persons with a minimum benefit, who face the same problems as those who live from the assistance. We have tabled a bill to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u6	I do not want to repeat all the arguments put forward by the Council of State, but I will take two pertinent comments. I wonder whether they will be discussed and whether they will be met.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u7	I will answer the questions relating to persons with disabilities who receive an income replacement benefit or integration. A total of 194.000 people will automatically receive a monthly premium of 50 euros. They don't have to apply. The premium will automatically be charged in July. If no account is known, the amount will be paid by post. Mrs. Vanrobaeys, you referred to a bill. Now, the supercentre has already discussed the problems of low incomes, unemployment benefit and low pensions for some workers and self-employed people, which your party put on the table, and decided to allocate EUR 100 million extra to help those groups. Mr Ducarme could explain in more detail how this support goes through the OCMWs, because they are best familiar with the families and their precarious situations. That's not very small, by the way. Roeselare, for example, receives EUR 400,000 to 500,000 additional resources and 10% additional operating resources. This can help people with low pensions or income, among other things, in the context of energy poverty. With these extra EUR 100 million through the OMCWs, we have been able to meet the demand to support low incomes that do not belong to any of the three categories.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u8	Mr President, as Mr Muylle has already said, the measures in question are part of a wider framework. A budget of EUR 300 million was made available. With regard to this decree, we are talking about an exceptional allowance which, as far as my powers are concerned, is 6x50 euros for beneficiaries of social integration income. The supplementary allowance will be granted to beneficiaries, i.e. to persons already receiving an allowance, in the current month. They are not the households, they are the beneficiaries. It should be noted that this is not to give the impression of an increase in the allowance. It is planned to ensure that, as far as possible, it is paid by a separate payment from that of the main allowance. Each month, the CPAS will be responsible for the payment until December, for six months. It is social aid that is offered exceptionally and temporarily because of the health crisis and will make it possible to pay the rent, the energy bill or food. Furthermore, it should be pointed out that the aid is inaccessible, elusive and exempt from withholding tax and social security. As Mr Muylle said, the KB is not only from the government, but also from the super-core. So it's also part of a whole. I come back to the remarks that have been made. In addition to this premium, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the super kern has also decided to grant additional social assistance to CPAS in the amount of EUR 100 million. This will help all those who need to use the social component of the plan that we have implemented in the context of the VOCID-19 crisis. These 100 million are intended for anyone who suffers an impact arising from the consequences of the VOCID-19 crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u9	Mr President, I would like to add a few words to the IGO and the guaranteed income. A total of 108,792 beneficiaries will each receive the 50 euro premium. Even then, it is a premium per person and not per family. The contribution does not have to be applied for, but is automatically granted and paid as for the other benefits, but in this case by the Federal Pension Service. Specifically for IGO and guaranteed income, the first payment will be made by means of a separate payment at the end of July. The other payments will be made together with the monthly payment of the IGO.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u10	Does anyone ask for the floor for the replies? [[No, no, ……]] Then I consider the royal decree discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u11	Madam Secretary, today there is, among other things, the Royal Decree No. 45 to extend corona parental leave until 30 September on the committee's agenda. A few weeks ago, I asked you why there could be no arrangement applicable to all children with disabilities, regardless of their degree. You replied that the definition of disability was aligned with the applicable definition of parental leave and adoption leave, forms of time credit that were adjusted on the basis of advice 2072 of the National Labour Council. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Since exceptional circumstances call for exceptional measures, why was the scheme not initially applicable, nor was it extended through Royal Decree No. 45 to the category all children with disabilities, regardless of degree? Could KB No. 45, since there is an enlargement ahead of us, are they still being amended to that effect? In so far as this is not the case, is the Government prepared to regulate the categories mentioned which are excluded and what initiatives will be taken to this end?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u12	Are there any colleagues who would like to ask questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u13	Madam Secretary of State, C.B. No. 45 indeed extends the corona parental leave. I have a question both about this royal decision and about the other royal decision on the transition to economic unemployment. On 18 June, an agreement was reached within the Group of Ten to extend corona parental leave and a number of other measures until the end of December and not to provide for a switch to economic unemployment, which I shall come back to later. What is the government's position on this agreement in the Group of Ten? Has that been discussed yet? To what extent will the government respond to the agreement and will it interfere with the royal decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u14	Madam Minister, many things in that royal decision satisfy us because it responds to social needs that were not addressed in the previous royal decree. For example, single parents under the previous Royal Decree did not have the opportunity to take full-time corona parental leave, especially those working part-time. Now that is possible and the allowance is increased. It is also a good thing that this is extended until the end of September because many people need to find solutions to ensure care for their children through the cancellation of camps and internships. We do have a question about the people in part-time employment, because we see that this category has been removed from the corona-parental leave regime. Why did the super core decide that? We would have liked some clarification on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u15	Mrs Houtmeyers, I see that you have also asked to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u16	Mr President, I had indeed raised my digital hand. We support the existing extension for the temporary unemployed in order to be employed in vital sectors while maintaining benefits. In this way, support will be provided in those sectors which are difficult to cope with due to the corona crisis, such as the fruit sector. We do ask ourselves questions about extending this measure to persons taking voluntary leave. In what way will improper use be avoided? I also mentioned Corona parental leave last week when we were talking about enlargement to include the military, of which we are absolutely not in favour. Workers already taking parental leave can now lose parental leave, with an increased parental leave allowance. The measure just ensures that, at the time when the economy needs to start up again, workers are encouraged to stay home. I just heard that the shelter would still be closed. In the meantime, however, the shelter has been reopened. Of course, a number of camps cannot continue, but many alternatives to these camps have now been found. The measure therefore has little use in providing childcare services. An additional difficulty is the possibility of applying for leave three working days in advance. This is particularly difficult for employers. This time limit ensures that the organisation and planning of the work can be confused in terms of staffing for employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u17	Are there any Members who wish to speak? [[No.]] Madam Secretary, in that case I am happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u18	Mr President, Mrs Samyn, you asked me this question two weeks ago. The answer will also be the same as two weeks ago. I realize that there are certain situations where people lack close points. However, we have chosen to use the same definition here and to make them consistent with other systems. The rule has been established in consultation with the social partners, in the context of time-credit and parental leave for people with children with disabilities. So we cannot suddenly deviate from existing rules. The file never came to the table either. A clear question from those concerned was to be able to take full-time leave. There was also a question about benefits, especially because of single parents, where sometimes poignant situations came to light. These questions, including the increase to 150% and the full-time nature, have been addressed by the super core. On the other hand, the parameters relating to the number of points required have not been adjusted. It is too late for this: there is a power of attorney-KB and the period of proxies is over. If we were to change that, that would have to be done through a legislative amendment. Parliament is free to look at this, but we are here today confirming the decision that was taken two weeks ago on the basis of the supercore and the royal decision that was sent to the Council of State. With the 150% and the full-time nature, we wanted to offer an answer to that group, but we have not touched on the definition. The system starts on July 1st. It will therefore not be amended unless Parliament takes a new initiative along these lines. Mrs Vanrobaeys, on enlargement, it is true that the Group of Ten has concluded agreements, but after the decision of the supercore. The first agreed on the extension of the measures, the second on new measures from September onwards. That second agreement was concluded after the supercore decision. It is also much wider: it deals not only with the extension of parental leave, but also with temporary unemployment due to corona, the cessation of degressivity until the end of the year and the accumulation in agriculture and horticulture. In fact, it deals with many of the KBs that are now in force, which one wants to extend until the end of the year. When this was approved, it was known that the government could no longer take powers of attorney-KB to extend this. It's on the table in the context of the relance talks. This afternoon, the social partners will come together with the government to explain further the agreement of the Group of Ten. It will also be necessary to look at what we will do from September onwards. The Prime Minister has always been of the opinion that it is up to the next government to take further decisions on extensions. Time will tell who or not to make the decisions, but the exercise is on the table. It is being introduced again tonight and I suspect this will be done by the Group of Ten. It is to be seen what measures the current or new government will take in the context of relance. Mrs Houtmeyers, you have, above all, had remarks that you have made before. Today we have more than 70,000 parents or families who rely on the system, each time with the agreement of the employer. Today, therefore, this offers solutions to situations in order to enable the combination of private life and work during this difficult period. At the end of September, after the re-start of the schools, a choice has been made. This was also the motivation to include September. We'll see what happens next. The government has always chosen to volunteer, so the employer gives his agreement. You're talking about three days, but the employer agrees, so it's a voluntary system. There was a question to make this compulsory, and this was also discussed in committee, but then we know that the employer must also be given a postponement option. That did not seem obvious to us at that time, and that is why we have left it at will. The concerns you have expressed about the system are well known. I can only say that there are a lot of positive reactions to it. Later this year, it will show how we can proceed with the system and whether we can adapt existing systems in one way or another. I hope that this can be done within the framework of a broad social dialogue. They also asked about three-fourths work. Well, three-fourths can, that's enough. Under the three-fourths it can't be done, so that's the lower limit. People who work three-fourths reach just enough hours. They can only choose half-time. If you work full-time, you can choose from half-time to a fifth. Contracts with less than three quarters cannot benefit from the scheme. We have also aligned ourselves on all existing systems of parental leave and career breaks, which are also at 75%, on the three-fourth break. Those currently working part-time cannot therefore stay fully at home in the context of the corona crisis. Today's systems are all focused on who works three-fourths or more. If you work less than three quarters, you will not be able to use the measure, as is the case with the normal systems of career breaks and parental leave.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u19	Madam Minister, my question is also about the increased compensation that existed in the parental regime during the corona period.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u20	The 125 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u21	Yes, but that concession has now fallen back to the classic regime.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u22	No, that 125% goes on, for everyone. It will be 150 % for single parents with children and parents with a child with disabilities and it will remain 125 % for all others.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u23	Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u24	Madam Minister, the Committee on Social Affairs repeatedly raises the pressure on parents working at home with children. Finding a good balance between work and family is not easy for everyone. That is why corona parental leave was created. It is a pity that parents with children with disabilities over 12 years of age who do not reach the necessary number of points, unfortunately now fall out of the corona parental leave boat. This was also not taken into account in the drafting of the royal decree. I already pointed out to you in the middle of June that these children, for example, cannot go to summer camp, nor can they just go to a shelter. Parents must now take all their holidays or even unpaid leave or work part-time in order to provide care for their child. The last two examples lead to a loss of income and additional financial pressure for parents. I hope, therefore, that there will still be an initiative, but in the future Flemish interest will certainly also present an initiative on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u25	Anyone else asking for the floor? (No) We also close the discussion of Royal Decree No. 45 off and now continue in ordinary chronology.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u26	Madam Minister, on a number of points, this royal decision mainly implements social agreements. I have a number of specific questions about this. Chapter 5 deals with the periodic health assessment. It is being extended again, but I wonder whether such a general extension is appropriate until 31 December, because there are a lot of work resumptions where prior supervision by the occupational physician is desirable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u27	At the request of the sp.a this is limited in the supercore until 30 September and the KB has also been adapted in that sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u28	Thanks, then I didn't look properly. I also have a question about Chapter 6 on the exchange of inspection services. During the oral questions in committee, you have already said that there is an exchange to strengthen inspection services. That is a good thing, but for us it is only a temporary patchwork. That is why we are wondering whether there is a need for more inspectors to monitor welfare at work. A plan should be drawn up for this. We thought that this exchange and the possible strengthening of the social inspection services were also being discussed with the social partners. Is that so and, if so, what did the consultation bring? This is about sanction level 2, while all infringements of welfare regulation have a sanction level 3. Where does that difference come from?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u29	Mr President, I shall be brief. Following the analysis by the Council of State of Chapter 1 of the Royal Decree No. 37 the Council of State considers, referring to its opinion, that the measures provided for in Chapter 1 of the draft should be limited to the duration necessary to cope with the effects of the coronavirus and the epidemic. However, if the report is read out to the King, despite the opinion of the Council of State, it is stated that the measures are not temporary in nature but are intended to have a lasting effect. Why was the Council of State's opinion not followed on this matter? I will not go over all the arguments of the Council of State again. However, it cannot be the intention to use the corona crisis to make a permanent and structural legislative change to the legislation in force. The fact that the power of attorney decisions should be ratified within the year does not preclude the creation, to the extent that they would be ratified, of a legal situation which is not in accordance with Articles 2 and 5, §§ 1 and 2 of the Law of 27 March 2020. Why was the situation chosen, although proposals made and subsequent adjustments by the Council of State could have enabled a comprehensive legal framework to be achieved? I would also like to comment on Chapter 6, which I will try to shorten considerably. In other words, regulatory action by the legislator from a legal point of view is the most appropriate way to regulate the sanctioning of the Social Criminal Code of employers' obligations laid down in the Ministerial Decree. Why was the Council of State's opinion on Chapter 6 not taken into account here?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u30	Mr President, a word on the chapters. Chapter 1 seems to us to be a logical and justifiable measure. The only observation is that this was not limited in time. In itself, we can see that these provisions will be extended indefinitely, but we still think that it would have been better if this had initially been applied until 31 December 2020. Chapter 2 with the social Maribel seems to us to be a good technical measure. It is a reserve of funds which would normally also be used to finance the social Maribel, which should not be returned to the global management of the RSZ. In that sense, there are no more expenditures. Chapter 3 concerns students. The starting point for preventing excessive, improper use of temporary unemployment due to force majeure seems to us to be good. However, further clarification would be desirable in order to avoid legal uncertainty. How, for example, does one deal with an organisation in which the tasks are not all defined? What about organisations in which the organisation of the work is not always pre-planned? Will the RVA monitor this proactively or will they only intervene in a complaint? Chapter 4, giving knowledge in advance, seems broadly good. This measure is probably partly taken to ensure that the employer does not need to deliver form 3.2a for temporary unemployed persons on account of corona. It seems logical to us that the employer cannot simply suspend the employee's employment without informing the person concerned beforehand. Has this measure been introduced to facilitate controls? Chapter 5 seems good to us. The extension is not excessive and urgent investigations remain possible. Dank u.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u31	Mr President, Madam Minister, all the measures contained in this royal decree have been known since the beginning of the crisis. However, I am surprised that this is only happening today, when the use of the form of temporary unemployment for force majeure VOCID-19 is slowly coming to an end. If I can understand that it took time to formalise all this and that this was obviously not the only thing to manage in recent weeks, I wonder, on the one hand, how the ONEM and the social secretariats, which I draw from it, operated without a legal basis. On the other hand, what happens to companies which, in good faith, have acted in such or such a way, whereas this may not be the way this should have been done? For companies that have tried to fraud or have failed to comply with safety or hygiene rules, this is normal. But what about those who acted in good faith? At the beginning of the crisis, several of my colleagues' questions concerned offences committed by certain companies on the basis of denunciations. Can you clarify the number of complaints made to inspection services and the number of spontaneous inspections by inspection services? What results can we derive from this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u32	Mrs Vanrobaeys, the date was delivered on 30 September. We have already discussed the possibility of the social inspection service. After consultation, we reached the agreement to fill in the existing vacancies, which will be a first important step. We now also have the opportunity to recruit ten more doctors, because there is an agreement on this. At the moment we are still looking at how we can obtain additional resources. In recent years we have experienced difficulties in filling vacancies in this service. Perhaps it is a pity to have to put it this way, but COOVID-19 could be an opportunity for a piece to fill those vacancies now. We are fully committed to this, so that we reach a full line-up, which has not been the case for a long time now, together with the ten extra doctors. We have already discussed the level 2 sanction. It is about a compromise in the framework of a consultation. I can't say much more about that. There were arguments for and against. The compromise or solution has proved to be level 2. Mr Van Langenhove, you asked a question about the comments of the Council of State. It is true, as Mrs Houtmeyers said, that the first piece, on the digital signature, registration and deposit, has long been desired from the social dialogue, both on the employers' and employees' sides. Because it was more difficult to get together physically in the past period, that question became more pragmatous. We were asked to do this not only for the COOVID period, since this also required an investment in computer science. It would be quite a strange signal that we are adapting the computer to handle documents by electronic means, and then not using those applications after the COOVID period, but working back on paper and with fardes. I think you agree with that argument. I can certainly follow you very closely if you say that a power of attorney KB was not the right instrument to carry out that for an indefinite period of time. This is also the subject of the comments of the Council of State. However, we have demarcated with indefinite time because there was a very large question of the field of work, of both employers and employees, and the power of attorney gave us the opportunity to introduce it on a permanent basis. I think this is a step forward for a lot of actors today. The programmes are there, so it would be a pity to re-destruct them after a certain period of time. I can follow your logic that a KB power of attorney might not have been the right instrument for that, but I thought it was more important to be able to solve the problem. With regard to the Council of State and the sanctions, on the basis of the opinion of the Council of State, we have asked for an additional opinion. You may have seen that. On the basis of that second opinion, we have entered all infringements into the Royal Decree. Mrs Houtmeyers, with regard to your first question on digitisation, everything is clear. As far as the social Maribel is concerned, it does not entail any additional expenditure. As far as refinement is concerned, one cannot just replace someone with an interim or a student. The RVA checks that very thoroughly and also has access to Student@work. That's something the RVA is used to checking and doing. That refinement is there to check whether people are not placed in temporary unemployment and replaced by students. There is indeed a check and the RVA has the tools to do so. As far as reporting is concerned, you ask whether the measure has been put in place to facilitate controls. That was, of course, one of the reasons for doing so. If you say that mandatory investigations must be carried out, they can indeed continue during this period. There is therefore no exception and the Royal Decree allows for all possibilities. Mrs Galant, you said that we have no legal basis for the royal decree in question. I didn't understand you well. The Royal Decree on Temporary Unemployment has already been adopted several times. The Royal Decree extending temporary unemployment was published around 20 June, until the end of August. We have a new system, which is in the other R.A., to extend temporary unemployment for economic reasons until the end of the year, for the transitional period and the period of coronavirus... As far as the figures are concerned, I do not have them here, but as a number of colleagues have asked the question in the Committee on Employment, I will send you all the recent figures that we have.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u33	Does anyone ask for the floor for the replies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u34	Madam Minister, I have also tabled this question for tomorrow, because after the discussion there may be a new state of affairs tomorrow. The Group of Ten reached an agreement on 18 June and calls for all the measures you have just listed to be extended to December and for no alternative form of temporary unemployment to start from September for economic reasons. What is the relationship between this KB and the agreement reached in the Group of Ten?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u35	Madam Minister, we are very charmed by the recipes put forward here to deal with the aftermath of the COOVID-19 crisis by enabling companies to keep their staff, their human capital, on board and avoid any loss of jobs. We like those recipes, even outside of corona times. We need to look at the labour market in a very different way in order to create sustainable employment. I note that social security is also given an active role in this. Employers are encouraged by a reduction in the social contribution if collective reduction in working hours is applied and the available work is redistributed. The continued employment of workers is even cheaper than a full unemployed person. In this sense, we are very pleased with the proposals. Individual time credits will also be possible, as will individual working hours and runways, limited to companies recognised as being in difficulty or in restructuring, and temporarily until the end of this year. Madam Minister, if these measures are successful, are you prepared to extend them after the planned period? Even more, if they are really successful, it might be possible to see whether they cannot be extended to companies that are not in economic difficulties. I am thinking of the instrument for creating jobs. If companies receive support through the organisation of collective reduction of working time or when they benefit from the temporary unemployment scheme, consideration could also be given to making the measures conditional and temporarily making redundancies impossible in these companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u36	Unfortunately, we are less charmed than my predecessor by the proposals. We think it is extremely important to continue to activate and get people to work and not to let them go into hibernation. The collective reduction in working time, together with the runway, the coronatime credit and the system of unemployment with single payment, is one of the recipes of the past. They aim at a temporary or permanent withdrawal of labour from the labour market. Instead of encouraging labour mobility and preparing people for other jobs in more difficult periods through training or other work experience, one opts for an expensive system of inactivity. It is not because the corona crisis is now in full swing that in two or three years' time there will be another shortage on the labour market. As the Minister has just pointed out, some jobs have not been filled in in the past and we hope that they will now be filled in more easily. We do not think that the collective reduction in working hours and the coronatime credit are good arrangements. We do not support these ideas. The possibility of temporary unemployment already exists. That's definitely a good idea. Deactivating measures such as time-credit do not offer any added value. Pushing workers into leave schemes or inactivity will certainly not help to boost the level of activity or to finance social security. Chapter 3 on runways is in fact the same remark: the system is a thing of the past. That's how we don't activate people to work anymore. Chapter 4 deals with the conditions for recognition. We can, however, support the temporary reduction of the conditions for approval of firms in difficulty or restructuring. Chapter 5 deals with temporary unemployment. We can certainly agree with an additional flexibility as a transitional measure to the old system. In order to reduce costs and improper use, it is good that the old regime will come back into force in the long term. It was not entirely clear which sectors would be covered. My question on temporary unemployment is on the committee's agenda tomorrow, but perhaps you can answer it now, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u37	Madam Minister, with regard to Chapter 1, you say that with the system of reducing working time, the worker is considered to be full-time. I assume that this concerns the creation of his social rights and his pension rights. With regard to Chapter 5 and the requirement of two days of training per month, although I understand the usefulness of the use of compulsory training, I wonder whether firms in difficulty will be able to finance and bear this kind of cost. Votes were cast to oppose this consideration, which was considered too heavy. What do you intend to answer to his detractors? On the whole of this royal decree, can you confirm to me that the social partners have been consulted?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u38	Mrs Vanrobaeys, in the context of the agreement of the Group of Ten, I would like to explain something to the committee, especially to colleagues who are not members of the Committee on Social Affairs, Employment and Pensions. With regard to the reduction of temporary unemployment due to corona, we want to continue until 31 December for those sectors which are very heavily affected, and for the other sectors we are going to opt for a transition period from 1 September. That transition period is also in the present KB. The transition period is subject to two conditions: 10% loss of business and two days of training. Mrs Galant mentioned that there were some questions about the funding and organisation of these two days of training. Last week we discussed this with the social partners and they propose to activate the employment cells of the regions, in Flanders the VDAB, to complete these two days of training. A letter has now been sent to the regions to ensure that the regional employment cells start working with the people who are in the temporary unemployment system to provide them with these two days of training. So it comes from the regions, which is also a solution for businesses. I think we have found a good solution. Mrs Houtmeyers says that employers cannot move quickly enough to 'the new normal'. However, I have to say that many employers insist on maintaining the system of temporary unemployment by corona. We decided at the time that it would apply to certain sectors such as the travel and events sector and the catering industry, but we continue to have a lot of questions. As an example, yesterday I visited an industrial laundry that mainly works for the event sector and the catering industry. It achieves 40% of normal activity and sees no improvement this year. It does not expect an increase until the first trimester of 2021. There are also steel companies that already indicate that they will have a relapse in September-October. This led to the idea of extending the corona measures not so much on the basis of sector but on the basis of needs. Last week we met with the Group of Ten, who explained its agreement. The Group of Ten wanted to extend the system to anyone who had been temporarily unemployed for one day during the period from March to June. One day we thought very little. We felt that a solution had to be worked out together. At that time, a working group worked very constructively with the social partners. The result is that the measures no longer apply by sector, but that the companies that need them are considered. Temporary unemployment continues to apply to companies which, in the second quarter, i.e. between March and the end of June, have placed 20% of their employees in temporary unemployment. They may remain in the system of temporary unemployment due to corona. Employers and employees reached agreement on this last week. That way we can help the companies that were hit hard. If the National Security Council decided tomorrow or later in August or early September to close a number of sectors in a particular region or take measures affecting certain sectors, sectors could be added on the basis of a new ministerial decision to extend temporary unemployment on corona. If no new additional measures are taken to shut down sectors or activities, this means that companies with 20% temporary unemployment between March and June can continue to operate the system. This was considered a reasonable system in the Group of Ten. This point is not being dealt with here today because it is a simple royal decision, not a power of attorney. It will be adapted accordingly. It is now for signature with the King and one of the days it will be published. For example, we hope to have met part of the Group of Ten's request to obtain the general extension without opening everything up. 20% seemed reasonable to us. There were many questions about companies in difficulty and restructuring. We were called upon to make some of these measures permanent and to be able to apply these instruments on a permanent basis in our labour market. For Mr Houtmeyers, these are solutions of the past. I have already said that we should have a broader discussion about our labour market. The post-COVID period certainly seems to us to be the time to do so. This is where we've been looking for a solution. As part of the Brexit measures, the same instruments were put on the table and this solution was approved by the Court. However, the measure is temporary and runs until the end of this year. It applies to companies in restructuring and companies in difficulty. I repeat. The measure is temporary and applies to a number of companies which are already struggling today or which are in restructuring and with a social plan. For these companies, we leave half to one fifth of the staff at home in the context of collective reduction of working hours and runways. What we are doing here is mainly preserving jobs and not pushing workers into unemployment. Therefore, this measure of extension can be justified. The majority of the supercore also supported the measure here. We provide a temporary solution for companies in difficulty and for companies in restructuring. I replied to the question on the conditions for recognition of temporary unemployment. That was in line with your question. As regards the figures and the consultation of the social partners, I do not understand very well, Mrs Galant. You mentioned the two days of training. This surprises me because in the government, it was your Prime Minister and your ministers who had asked to add the two days to the level conditions for the transitional period. The demands of the Liberal parties to add the turnover and the two days of formation come from your ministers, they have asked the government! The criticisms you're making here today amaze me somewhat. But you're right: it's not always easy for companies in need to settle the financing for these two extra days. That is why we reached an agreement with the social partners last week to do the exercise with the Regions. It is the Regions that will make a two-day offer to companies with temporary unemployed staff for the period from September to the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u39	Who else wants to reply to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your clear statement on temporary unemployment and for giving us a glimpse of what will come. It is not entirely clear to me who is covered by this KB and who will be covered by next week's new KB. Will this KB, including the training days, expire and will that of next week enter into force?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u41	The royal decree temporary unemployment corona will include everyone from September. This means that 70% or EUR 5.63 goes on for all businesses which have had more than 20% of their staff in temporary unemployment between March and the end of June. Those are the heavily impacted companies. For them, it goes on. This may also apply to sectors which could be affected by a new decision of the National Security Council. If a particular sector were to be re-closed, it would be logical for that sector to be included in the system. All the other companies that had less than 20% of the employees in temporary unemployment end up in the system that was voted here in the powers of attorney. That is the transitional period during which the 70% continues. The 5.63 euros are paid by the employer. The two days of training will be organised by the regions. There must be proof that there is a business loss of 10%. This is a flexible way: no new applications need to be submitted, there can be automatic transition from one system to another. Only the business rate loss of 10% has to be reported. A relaxation has also been applied in terms of the number of weeks of workers and servants, which has to be completed for another week after 8 weeks. For servants this has even been raised to 16 and 26 weeks. This applies to all other companies which were thus not included in the 20% figure. They shall be subject to this power of attorney. The others are covered by an ordinary corona decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u42	Thank you for your very clear answer. Temporary unemployment is one of the measures that has really helped many companies in recent months. I have been an absolute supporter of this. Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-14-55-commissie-ic237x.u43	I believe this is a justified closing point for the Corona-KBs. Temporary unemployment was the crown jewel of the measures taken during the banking crisis and, once again, in this crisis. I thank the Minister. Perhaps we will meet again in this committee in September when we will discuss the draft law for the ratification of the SACs.
