ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u1	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked several questions about the situation in Brussels Airlines. In the meantime, it has been a few months since we held major debates on this subject in plenary. We then returned to it a few times in committee meetings. Minister, I understand you a little, if you say that you cannot simply share information with us in the context of confidentiality, but it is about time. Today's press releases also show some nervousness among the people of Brussels Airlines. They are postponing future flight schedules again. This is certainly not how we will get there. There is also nervousness among the staff of the companies linked to the airport. This is often referred to as indirect employment. Minister, where are we? Is there an agreement in sight? Any appointments made? What guarantees will they be able to deliver if we, as a government, come up with any means?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u2	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the aviation sector has been severely affected by the health crisis. That's kicking in an open door, but the situation certainly doesn't look good. The uncertainty remains very large, as long as there is no vaccine. We all agree that the airport is of great economic importance. The national airport is indeed the second largest economic pole in our country, with 24,000 direct and 60,000 indirect jobs and with an added value of 3 billion euros for our economy, but that added value was, of course, created by the many thousands of workers working day by day, from morning to evening, in weather and wind, even on public holidays. They have very often sacrificed their social lives for that. Meanwhile, the airport family has experienced the biggest bankruptcy since the corona outbreak. In addition, 1,500 people have lost their jobs. The bankruptcy of Swissport is a catastrophe for all those who have lost their jobs and for those who work for the successor of Swissport, Alyzia, because the people get an interim or day contract there. The clean-up people are then re-housed with a subcontractor. I'm sure you understand that people are angry. The trade unions are therefore right when they say that social dumping is being organised at the airport. At the hearing last week, I heard from both Brussels Airport and Brussels Airlines that the continuation of Brussels Airlines is of great importance. Brussels Airlines represents 40% of the airport's activity. In the beginning of the crisis, the Brussels Airlines alarm was quickly triggered and it was said that if there were no financial support, it would not be possible to make it to the summer. Meanwhile, it's July 15th and we still don't know what's going on with Brussels Airlines. As the previous speaker said, people are getting nervous. A social agreement has been reached between the employees and the management of Brussels Airlines. The social partners said in the hearing that it was with the knife on the throat and that the social agreement will lead to much worse working conditions. They even called it the "ryanairization" of the jobs. At the hearing, the trade unions also said that, so far, 1,000 of the 4,000 jobs at stake are still being discussed. Brussels Airlines, sold to Lufthansa for 67 million euros, is now asking the Belgian government for 200 million euros. Meanwhile, there is an agreement in Germany and the German government has a 20% stake in Lufthansa and two seats on the board of directors. If a company is so large that when things go badly, it has consequences for society as a whole, wouldn't the returns when things go well be better returned to society? A bankruptcy of Brussels Airlines would be dramatic for the entire airport community. That is why we are in the hands of the government for our own home carrier and an airport, which would be the most stable solution for the aviation sector as a whole. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Where are the negotiations between Lufthansa and the Belgian authorities? Are you asking for employment guarantees and the maintenance of working and wage conditions? Do you also ask for guarantees regarding the maintenance of the escape routes? After all, people are concerned about this too. Do you see as Minister opportunities in taking back into government our national airline, as Mr Bouchez has already mentioned? The airport operator BAC is 25% in government hands. Over the past five years, BAC has made a profit of 390 million euros. Can it not help the airline by reducing rents, for example? What can the added value of BAC be in this? Does the Belgian Government have a plan in the drawer if the deal with Lufthansa would not go ahead? With regard to the social agreement, what do you think could be the consequences for staff and passengers? Will this not be at the expense of the service and will the working hours imposed on people not compromise safety?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u3	Minister, this is the complex and sensitive issue of the future of Brussels Airlines. We have been following the case closely, but it is important to see where we are today. We are talking about state aid of the order of 300 million euros for Brussels Airlines, which is in Lufthansa's hands. We know that a deal was made between the German state and Lufthansa to inject public money. You can see that things are going on, but you can't see the landing on the Belgian level. The discussions seem tense and complicated. Things would block Lufthansa's guarantees. You said that you were not opposed to aid but that you wanted guarantees on the maintenance and development of the Brussels hub, both in terms of operations and employment. You may understand, but for environmentalists, it is unthinkable to inject public money into an airline without strict social and environmental conditions linked to the objectives of the Paris Agreement. It is fundamental for us, and this sector must also be thoroughly reformed. Minister, you need to carry the message of a restructuring of the sector at European level. All neighbouring countries are negotiating. It is important to have a restructuring at European level at fiscal, environmental or journey level. For us, it is difficult to understand that there are still flights of less than 1,000 or 500 kilometres. It doesn't make any sense anymore. We really advocate to reduce these chip jumps, as is the case in France, and for a massive investment in train solutions. Minister, do you confirm your intention to intervene financially to help Brussels Airlines? What's the status of the discussions with Lufthansa? If these discussions were not to succeed, what would be the options? Are you going to buy a part of Brussels Airlines or increase your stake in the airport? What are your plans at this point? It is important to know where we are, especially with regard to the guarantees and conditions that are on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u4	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, the introduction has already been made. It is important to get to the essence of the matter. It is high time that a solution was found for Brussels Airlines. I have heard that if there is no decision now, it may well be grounding. Then many thousands of holidaymakers will not be able to leave because the planes have to land because of financial and cash problems. Can you tell me what the situation is now? Will there be an agreement soon? And I mean as soon as possible, today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. With regard to Swissport, what is the latest state of affairs regarding bankruptcy and the Renault Act? Mr Deputy Prime Minister, I hope we can get out together for Flemish Brabant. We have already discussed it, it is a very important dossier for our region, for the whole of Flanders and for the whole of Belgium. All confidence, but I hope it can land this week, literally and figuratively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I will not repeat why it is important that a deal is made between the federal government, Brussels Airlines and the parent holding Lufthansa, since we have already discussed this a number of times. All I can see is that the negotiations continue to drag on. I read in the press that Lufthansa has a tough attitude. Yesterday I learned that Brussels Arilines will not be able to fly out of part of the planned summer schedule because of the drying-up of liquidity. Mr Minister, can you give us a general state of play in the negotiations on the support package for Brussels Airlines? Is the bankruptcy of Brussels Airlines an option, is that a conceivable scenario? Is a temporary or temporary nationalisation of Brussels Airlines, as some suggest, an option for the government? Until when does Brussels Airlines have sufficient liquidity to continue the re-launched operations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u6	Mr President, Minister, for several weeks now you have been negotiating with Lufthansa the granting of some EUR 300 million in financial aid to enable Brussels Airlines to get out of the rut. You rightly recalled on 3 June that this support needed to be conditional on a number of guarantees, in particular with regard to employment and the prospect of the growth of society. As far as I am concerned, I continue to believe that this intervention can only be envisaged if we obtain an equity interest in the subsidiary of 25% plus one share in order to determine a blocking minority. Moreover, and according to the information published in La Libre Belgique on 19 June, the German group would no longer exclude the idea of letting Brussels Airlines go bankrupt and would have blackmailed itself using this argument in the context of the social plan negotiations which concluded on 24 June with an agreement. It should be noted that 1,000 of the company's 4,000 jobs are at risk. The press is also putting forward the figure of 400 million, which would now represent the company's needs. Minister, what is the status of the negotiations with Lufthansa? In these discussions, are you confronted with this blackmail on the possible bankruptcy of the company? Do you confirm that the financial situation has worsened and that the amount required to maintain the company has evolved to some 400 million euros?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, you have indicated that I have so far been very cautious in answering Parliament's questions about the status of the negotiations. Of course, I wanted to give the meeting every opportunity, and I still do. However, it seems logical to me, given that the negotiations have been going on for more than three months, that this time I should give some more details about the topics of discussion and the energy that the federal government has already devoted to the negotiations. First of all, I would like to make a few general comments. The line followed by the Belgian State is that of a commitment. This is a foreign company with an activity that is not very large in our country compared to the total size of the group. Of course, this activity is important for the workers in Brussels. If we want to make use of Belgian funding, then I think it is logical that something should be done, in particular an absolute commitment. In recent months we have therefore actively weighed on the development of a new business plan. This has greatly improved the plan, since the initial business plan only ran until 2023 and actually only took the restructuring into account. We have added a growth chapter, in which the period from 2023 to 2026 became more detailed, so that the workers, whose efforts we would like so much, would be given a perspective on the development potential of the company. Without this element, we would actually be asked to finance restructuring, which seems to me to be out of the question. It is something else when we first finance an exercise of restructuring and then offer a certain development potential. In my view, that is a different discussion. We have played our part in this agreement and I would like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to all the employees and trade unions of Brussels Airlines for the way in which they have cooperated in it. The negotiations were certainly not clear and the outcome, with the social agreement, is something quite unique in the history of our country. As a government, we have been very constructive and have tried to help where necessary. In Germany there is no social agreement yet; in Belgium there is and is ready. The social agreement is absolutely not clear: there is talk of a reduction in the number of jobs by 25% and certain groups still have to make substantial payments on their wages. As a shareholder of Brussels Airlines, we have negotiated a good agreement between Brussels Airport and Brussels Airlines. We are making efforts to improve the international attractiveness of Brussels Airport. For example, we are in far-reaching negotiations with the United States to set up a system of pre-clearance. That actually means that anyone flying to the United States can carry out immigration activities in Brussels and not have to wait two hours in line in the United States. Finally, over the last few months, we have had very intense consultations with the European Commission to create a basis for a specific solution for Brussels Airlines. That's our first line. If I listen to the committee, I think you agree that we are asking for guarantees. The second line, which I believe is at least as important, is that we have addressed absolute reasonableness in the negotiations. A blind commitment of Belgian money would be a sign of some naivety. I do not need to remind you that in recent years we have tried to turn Brussels Airlines into a low-cost airline and integrate it into Eurowings, so that we may conclude that this was perhaps a bad idea. During that period, the situation of Brussels Airlines is at stake. For us, it is important that the efforts of us as a government, but above all of the workers, lead to something. This means that we ask for a guarantee that the agreed business plan will be carried out, if market conditions allow it. I want to be very clear about that. One can create a business plan, but a business plan must adapt to the circumstances. If the economic situation did not recover in the coming years, it would not be good to maintain a business plan that does not reflect reality. If it were to develop in a normal way, it would seem logical to me to see how the commitments contained in it are being met. We do not want to impose anything that is unreasonable, but only to ensure that the agreements made are respected, if circumstances permit. I think it is absolutely logical that if we ask the Belgian government for funds, there are commitments to this. I also think it is logical that the government should make it clear that these commitments are respected but that they depend on how the world develops in the years to come. In my view, there is a very great willingness to think and engage in a reasonable way, but if we are asked to give a kind of blank cheque to a foreign company at a time when the workers have made a great effort, we cannot simply go along with it. The Belgian aid must be subject to reasonable conditions, as is the case in Switzerland and Austria. I will give you the retroacts, especially to explain to you all the efforts that have been made in recent months. If it is said that negotiations take time and are not moving forward, we have shown a great deal of proactivity. It must be noted that, after three months, we still have no agreement, but it is up to you to judge whether the Belgian State has played its part in obtaining a quick agreement or not. On 17 March, Brussels Airlines requested financial assistance from the Belgian State. As a reminder, Brussels Airlines is a wholly owned subsidiary of Lufthansa. The Belgian State has declared itself open to this request, given Brussels Airlines' major role in the Brussels Airport cluster and all the jobs it represents. You naturally know the arguments. But he's asking for guarantees in exchange. It is true that Eurowings' failure has remained in mind. I remind you of the macro conditions that we put forward. Lufthansa must invest in Brussels Airlines. It is not only up to the Belgian State to do so. Social consultation must be respected. The number of dry layoffs should be as low as possible. Prospects for the future are needed. It must not only be a restructuring. Brussels Airlines has advantages of weight and development potential if this is done correctly. Guarantees that past commitments will be met must be given. We must prevent the majority shareholder from giving up his commitments after an injection of funds. Recapitalisation must be sufficient to avoid solvency problems for Brussels Airlines. The fight against climate change must be taken into account. I only note that in the negotiations Lufthansa often came back to points that were important to our country and on which we have put our absolute emphasis. Based on the fact that Brussels Airlines has a heavy negative equity and a solvency problem, we were in favour of injecting equity, capital into the company. Lufthansa has always made it clear that this was an option which they are not in favour of. There have been a lot of discussions about this. There was also always a request from Lufthansa to give a grant, a grant, a loan without repayment. We have always made it clear that this was not an option for us. We have said that from the beginning. In the discussion on the form of the financing, Lufthansa has always maintained the view that it should be a loan, that it can be nothing else. Guarantees in relation to the future have always proved particularly difficult in the negotiations. Lufthansa has also said on several occasions that the problem of undercapitalisation of the company is not important in their view because they believe that this should be looked at at group level. One can look at this at group level, but the moment the parent company turns on the crane is a local company with very serious problems. We have done our utmost to listen to Lufthansa's concerns. We have then proposed a number of concessions. There was no support for us becoming shareholders of the company. We have then proposed the use of profit sharing certificates, a hybrid instrument which has the characteristics of a loan, but which does count against the capital of a company. That would be a solution which, on the one hand, responds to Lufthansa's demand and, on the other hand, responds to our concerns, because the company would be heavily undercapitalised. If we could come to a guarantee that the capitalization of the company is a commitment that Lufthansa will honour, then I think it can also go through a loan. I don't think this is a point of faith for us. The instrument of financing is not the essential thing for me. What is much more essential to me is that we ensure that the agreements that have been made are complied with. We have developed an escalation and sanction mechanism to resolve potential conflicts surrounding the commitments made. In this way, conflicts are resolved through dialogue and should not be resolved through a court of law. In this mechanism there is also room for a neutral arbitrator who can give an impartial opinion. Moreover, it is clear that the prevailing market conditions will always be taken into account and that we would not ask Brussels Airlines or Lufthansa for anything that is economically unfeasible. It is only if Lufthansa did not comply with the business plan at a time when that business plan could be carried out that a sanction could possibly be provided for. If the business plan is finally implemented, there would be no sanctions. It is used to find a way not only to block if commitments are not met, but above all to be able to unblock. It serves nothing to be in a business and block things if there is no unblocking mechanism. Special efforts have been made to find such a mechanism where a neutral arbitrator can resolve any conflict between different parties. The Belgian authorities have also made a great deal of efforts to develop the business plan and to bring about the social agreement, have mediated at Brussels Airport and negotiated to get the preclearance in order and have had a great deal of contact with the European Commission. I'd like to give you an idea of the intensity of the conversations on our side. During that period there were a total of 24 video or conference calls, a total of six different versions of an agreement were made, mostly from our hands and three letters were sent to the Prime Minister. Sometimes there was a great deal of time between the interactions. Between 11 May and 11 July we never received a counter-proposal from Lufthansa in relation to the proposals we have put forward. I give you this transparency because I think it is logical that I should be accountable to Parliament at the moment in relation to the role played by the Federal Participation and Investment Company and my team. I remain convinced that an agreement with the current shareholder would be in everyone's best interest. It also seems logical to me that at a time that is exceptional and when people are asking for exceptional things from employees and possibly from the government, there is some guarantee that what we agree on will also be carried out. Trust is good, but control is better. I won't tell you whose spell that was. At a time like this, it is logical that we should ask, in relation to Belgian taxpayers' money, for some conditioning in this matter. I regret the fact that Brussels Airlines is stopping the expansion of its flights today. That is a blow to the face of the workers who have made great efforts. I hope that the resumption of the activities of Brussels Airlines can take place as soon as possible, but that will not depend on us, but on the reaction time of the parties we are negotiating with. There have also been many contacts at the political level in recent months. I think that also makes sense: the German government is today at 20% shareholder of Lufthansa. There were political contacts up to the highest level in Germany and I hear that there is a political desire in Berlin for a reasonable agreement to be reached between Germany and our country. I agree with the political stance of Berlin. I hope that we will soon see the same attitude at company level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u8	Minister, I am pleased that you have shown the necessary openness today, as Parliament is certainly entitled to do so. You have said that you have played a role in the conclusion of the agreement, that clear guarantees are required and that there is a call for reasonableness. That's all very well. On the other hand, my deep concern about your statement is that there is very little interaction between them. You yourself have made some proposals, but no counter-proposal has yet been made by Lufthansa in two months' time. As a Parliament, we must dare to ask ourselves where Lufthansa is showing the need. Is there a hidden agenda playing at Lufthansa? How important is Brussels Airlines for Lufthansa? There was no mention of amounts, although amounts are regularly mentioned in the press. However, I assume that this will be discussed further in the negotiations. However, it must not be a gift to Lufthansa. After all, we should not forget that Lufthansa received 55% of the equity portfolio for EUR 2.6 million in 2017. As a government, therefore, we must accept our responsibility, but that must be conditional and temporary. It must not be a gift and must therefore be repaid.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u9	Minister, I think that the staff will still be very concerned about what we hear here. There is still no agreement, it has yet to be signed. For me, it's still very vague. I welcome the fact that you are putting a number of conditions first, but I am still very concerned. For example, you did not answer the question of whether there is a solution, claiming that Lufthansa is still breaking off the negotiations. Will the government take over Brussels Airlines if necessary, as we propose? Is that an option when the conversations wouldn't work out? We are still in favour of this. I can give many examples of countries where the government has done so. At TAP in Portugal, an agreement was concluded with the government, even though TAP is in alliance with Star Alliance. If Lufthansa does not succeed, it is therefore perfectly possible for the government to take matters into its own hands. We all know that a strong airline, a home carrier, is very important at the airport, both economically and for the thousands of people who work there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u10	Minister, I thank you for your longer response than usual, but that was necessary. It also seems to us that it is important and even fundamental that the shareholder, Lufthansa, intervenes as a priority to help its subsidiary Brussels Airlines before a single euro of public money is spent. But it is still unclear whether Lufthansa really wants to intervene and invest in helping him, which is really worrying. Moreover, if, at any time, you decide to spend public money to support the company, this will indeed have to be accompanied by extremely strict and strong conditions. Indeed, we absolutely cannot spend public money blindly and, as you said, grant subsidies without any conditions. For us, this is totally excluded. We need very strict and very strong social and environmental conditions, as I said in my question. You have not detailed the conditions that are currently on the table. But account must be taken of the Paris Agreement, the taxation of kerosene, the reduction of short-term flights, the need for quality jobs for women and men working in the sector. In any case, it is on this basis that environmentalists will be able to judge an agreement that would be concluded by the government. Finally, what about a possible plan B, if the mediation with Lufthansa did not work and if no agreement was reached? I assume you're preparing for this scenario. Several options were mentioned by some colleagues. Would it be possible for the State to buy back temporarily? Is there a question of leverage via the State shareholding in Brussels Airport? As far as we are concerned, we do not favour any leads. But we would like to know if a plan B is on the table. I imagine we need to be able to think about this, given the state of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for the detailed answer. I have three comments to make. Firstly, it seems logical to me that there is a business plan because that should actually be there for all companies. I hope that there was also a business plan for Aviapartner when it received EUR 25 million. I've never seen that, but I'll figure it out because I care. I am also trying to pay a visit there, but that is apparently impossible, the airport seems to be an impregnable fortress. I would also like to see Air Belgium's business plan, which seems to be flying around with two worn-out old containers. Anyway, a business plan is definitely important. Secondly, you say you don't want to give a blank cheque. No one is arguing for that, but in the meantime, you've been at it for months. You say you had to wait two months, from 11 May to 11 July, to get a counter-proposal. That is something I did not know, and you rightly made that remark. After all, a minister cannot respond if he has not received an answer. I therefore assume that you received a response on 11 July and hope that it can move forward now. However, from your reply, I have been able to make it clear that you are going to make progress now. Thirdly, we want an agreement as concluded in Vienna, Zurich and Geneva with Swissair and Austrian Airlines. I too want something in the same order and I would like to have the same conditions. You can probably go a long way in that direction because I would be surprised if Lufthansa didn't put something like that on the table. Why, after all, should we ask for anything else in Belgium than in those other countries? It seems unlikely that people would ask for more here. I hope there will be an agreement soon because that is really necessary. You should not be blackmailed, I certainly do not argue for that, but I hope it can be done quickly now. Minister, you know that you can count on our support, but let it move forward, because Brussels Airlines is extremely important for the airport community in Flemish Brabant and throughout the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u12	Thank you very much, Minister, for your transparency. You yourself realize that you have to come here with a little hopeful story, but I am glad that we are hearing the reality. A proactive and committed attitude and the political stance of Berlin is all very well, but of course it means little as long as there is no agreement. In the meantime, however, what situation are we in? In all honesty, I do not know the fine thing about that system of profit sharing certificates, but it sounds like we think we can get guarantees while Lufthansa continues to close the road to participation in the capital. I don't know how that can be reconciled. On the other hand, there is also time pressure because the summer schedule cannot be fully developed. When is the time when we really have to choose, when we run out of money? Improve me if I see it wrong, but I think there are two options: bankruptcy and then see who jumps into the hole or takes over the store, whether temporarily or not. For the record, that last option is not our preferred option but it is better than Lufthansa giving a blank cheque. I am very pleased that you have made it clear that the latter is absolutely not an option for the federal government to grant subsidies. I hope that will remain your position, even if it becomes urgent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u13	Minister, thank you for this answer and for the many elements you have communicated in full transparency. You mentioned the number of videoconferences and the number of proposals that have been made, etc. I have no doubt that the efforts have been significant. No one questions that. However, it is felt that the discussions take place in an unbalanced balance of forces, while initially Lufthansa is the applicant. However, we feel that it is the Belgian State that should make the efforts and compromises, as if we were in an unfavourable balance of forces. I have the impression that there is still a little work to be done to rebalance this balance of forces and to make Lufthansa understand that the Belgian State also has legitimate requirements. In this regard, priority should be given to a mechanism that offers guarantees and links the company over time. It is not a question of disbursing, and then realizing, in a few months or years, that we have been rolled into the flour. There is also the question of plan B. What do we do if we don't succeed? With what means? With what ambitions in terms of both financial and mobility and economic model? We need to anticipate these issues, integrating a whole series of requirements related to what some call "the world of tomorrow" and which, in my view, should guide our public action now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u14	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your clear explanation, which was very comprehensive. Using tax money to help SN, that's for sure. However, this can only be done through temporary aid, which must then be repaid. I have heard all the groups here and I note that there is a consensus on this. You're following the right line. After all, it must be clear that the money should be used for a growth scenario rather than a restructuring scenario. You made that very clear. It is normal that we should ask for guarantees in the implementation of the plan and provide for a refund of the tax money we would make available. I repeat that a party who believes that we should grant a subsidy without any guarantee and without any refund must dare to raise it here in committee. However, I have not heard that today. I'd like to talk about the numbers. SN must continue to exist. That's out of the question. The company represents 40% of the business of our airport and 40% of the employment. This concerns 9 000 to 10,000 employees who are employed at the airport thanks to SN. It is also important that Brussels airport is the largest growth pole within the Lufthansa group, including the airports of Zurich, Munich, Frankfurt and Vienna. Here's capacity. Here's capital to invest. There are also people who want to take the flights here via the hub function. That is very important, and Lufthansa knows it. Lufthansa is terrified to leave here and another airline that could then fill in hub function. We must continue to play that trump card. I'm sure you'll do the same with your team. Finally, I hear talk here about nationalizing as Plan B. However, that is not an option today. In order to nationalise, an agreement is always needed with Lufthansa on, among other things, price and modalities. That's gonna cost a lot of money, too. Lufthansa will not resell the airport to us for 26 million euros, which is the amount we received for that 55% participation. She won't. In that case, SN would also step out of the Star Alliance, making also some... That's true, Mrs. Vindevoghel. However, I will not argue with you, because you are from the union. Nationalisation is really not an option today. If Lufthansa wants SN to go bankrupt, we have to look at the situation in a different way. However, I am not convinced that Lufthansa will let SN go bankrupt for the reasons I have quoted. So, Minister, I agree with you that a good agreement is still possible. So just stick to your point of view. Then we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u15	A good agreement is what we all want. Let's keep the serenity. Do you still want to speak to political groups? [[No, no, ……]] In that case, we can conclude the topical and urgent debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u16	Mr President, is the committee an hour off or are we going to exhaust the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u17	The commission will end at 4:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u18	At the end of April, Minister, a report noted that American companies operating in Europe are shifting their profits to those countries where taxes are the most attractive. The winners, in order of generosity, are Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. That's the axis of tax avoidance. These four countries ensure that the other European countries miss more than EUR 27 billion. Belgium is a relatively big loser. Every year, our state treasury sees EUR 2.6 billion being drilled through the nose. We know this because in the United States companies are obliged to disclose that information. This is not the case in Europe. If we also include European companies, the overall figure is probably much higher. It is a perverse system, because in this way countries are being set up against each other in a race to cut the bottom and income from each other. The multinationals are the laughing third. Minister, are you in favour of a European minimum level of corporation tax? Can we take steps to avoid companies shifting their profits from Belgium to another country, for example by renegotiating existing double taxation treaties? Do you agree that businesses in Europe should also be obliged to make their profits public by country? Will you take initiatives to avoid transfers to the Netherlands, Luxembourg and other countries in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u19	Thank you for your question, but I would like to say first of all that my administration has reservations about the methodology used in the study and, therefore, the extent of the estimated losses to the Treasury due to profit shifting, to which you referred in your question. The proposal to amend Directive 2013/36/EU as regards disclosure of information on the taxation of profits for certain companies falls within the competence of my fellow Minister for Economic Affairs. Moreover, it is not for the Belgian Finance Minister to comment on the views that colleagues in other Member States could take in debates on proposals for directives, more specifically on public country reporting and the common corporate tax base. Belgium participates constructively in the discussions on these proposals and is looking for compromises. At the request of the G20, there is currently a discussion on the minimum tax within the Inclusive Framework, supported by the expertise of the OECD Secretariat. The G20 requested that the more than 130 countries participating in that discussion reach a consensus by the end of this year. At EU level, the Commission has not yet made any proposals on minimum taxation. Moreover, I do not wish to anticipate that discussion either. In any case, Belgium supports the idea that all companies, including the major international digital players, should contribute a fair share of taxes. Negotiations are currently under way with the Netherlands on a new double taxation treaty. Belgium notes that it includes OECD recommendations on treaty abuse and artificial avoidance of a permanent establishment, BEPS Actions 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u20	Thank you for your answer. With regard to the Inclusive Framework in the OECD, there is another question on the agenda for later today. Everyone has a mouth full of honest taxes and a fair contribution from everyone. But a group that is too often emerging today are the multinationals. They make convenient use of the age-old principle divide et impera, divide and conquer. I understand that it is not clear at all to get the noses in the same direction internationally. But I am convinced that we must continue to work towards further integration of the European countries. The more European countries present themselves as one block, the more difficult it will be for multinationals to play individual countries against each other. I hope they'll see that soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u21	Minister, last week and the week before, we discussed the length of repayment of loans with state guarantees and the bank plan for SMEs. I won't reopen that discussion. Mr President, have you received any new information from either the National Bank or from Febelfin, who can further enrich the debate? As far as I am concerned, we are not going to repeat the discussion of the bill unless you really want to, but that is not the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u22	Mr President, these are many mixed questions, but I will reply specifically to your question. The National Bank reports that it is processing the latest information, but we have not yet received it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u23	Mr Matheï, I did not see you, but you also have an additional question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u24	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u25	The National Bank is still processing the data and we have not yet received it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u26	Mr Piedboeuf, we come to your question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, I had already received the minister's answer to that question and the next two in my name. However, I would like them to be reflected in the minutes of the meeting. I'll have two more later, but I don't want to take the place of a colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u28	These are questions nos. 55005835C, 55006127C and 55006509C?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u29	That's right. At the end of a previous meeting, the minister's co-worker had provided me with the answers, so I will not ask the minister to repeat them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u30	I have seen that the agreements have been extended until 31 August, but I have another question. If homework is still recommended in the countries concerned, will automatic renewal continue beyond 31 August?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u31	Mr President, Mr Matheï, as regards your supplementary question, I have not yet received a response from those countries to allow an extension after 31 August. In principle we have until 31 August, but it would of course be better if we got that sooner.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u32	Minister, I understand that this is being followed closely. This is an important issue for frontier workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u33	Mr President, Minister, with this question we are going back to February, even before the corona crisis. Then there was at some point everything to do around sports clubs and offering free drinks and VAT checks. I also questioned you at the time and received a reply from Minister De Block in plenary. She said that there would be a meeting with the sports federations and sports clubs to discuss the tax obligations, because apparently they would not always be clear to the directors of the clubs. In the meantime, has there been any consultation with the sports federations? I had already made a suggestion at the time: on the FPS Finance website, non-profit organisations have a very comprehensive powerpoint presentation on tax obligations, but it dates back to 2015 and is therefore actually full of dated and incorrect information. They were supposed to look at that, but that presentation was still on the website. Is there gonna be an update on that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u34	Mr Matheï, during the discussions between the President and the RSZ in mid-June, a joint decision was taken to launch a new information campaign aimed at sports clubs. Preparations are being launched within the General Administration of Taxation to do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u35	Indeed, Minister, it is important that this awareness and the updating of the information be brought about. This can only benefit the operation of the clubs on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u36	Minister, we have already had a number of discussions on this, including with the Prime Minister. It is a good recovery plan, a recovery and resilience plan, a solid and responsible plan that you and Belgium, through the Prime Minister, have rightly already promised support. It also includes a new, ground-breaking funding for Europe. So hopefully it will be approved. The question is specifically about the different possibilities, with each proposal undoubtedly having its supporters and opponents. There is, however, a line in the various possibilities to increase own resources. The Commission lists these: a digitaks, a form of minimum tax for large companies, a tax on non-recyclable plastic, the carbon border adjustment mechanism on CO2. Has your administration made the exercise of the possible impact, the advantages and disadvantages? What are your views on these proposals? What are the particular advantages that Belgium can or cannot retain? I assume that the Prime Minister will be able to answer that after the European summit, but if you can do it first, now, you can.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u37	Mr President, what does that mean if I could already answer in her place? The Commission's plan offers a perspective on how to bring Europe's economic engine and the Member States to cruising speed as quickly as possible. We must make the most of Europe's scale in order to emerge quickly and strongly from the crisis. Council President Michel's proposal is already a step in the right direction. It maintains a number of important balances within the MFF, it provides a specific Brexit Fund, provides a fair distribution and high level of ambition within the recovery fund and provides a clear perspective of a strong balance between solidarity and responsibility. In particular, on the last point, the discussions in the European Council need to be deepened further. A number of sources of own resources are currently on the table. These should help to repay the loan for the COVID-19 recovery plan after 2027. From a tax point of view, there are several options for financing the EU budget, but it is too early to adopt a definitive position on this at the moment. Plastic tax is without doubt the fastest executable. There are certainly opportunities to introduce a carbon tax on goods from outside the single market that do not meet certain standards. For a possible tax on multinational, digital companies, I refer to the ongoing OECD project for the reform of international taxation. By the end of 2020, a global solution is expected for a more fair tax contribution from digital companies, which could be the starting point for a European translation of these new tax rules. For other sources, Belgium will take a constructive look at which taxes or contributions are best suited for this purpose. The European Commission has only retained the discounts, the rebates, for Member States which are already entitled to a discount in the current MFF, namely Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, Austria and Sweden. Initially, the European Commission had proposed an extinguishment by 2025, but this extinguishment is now being postponed in the longer term. The European Commission only provides for a flat-rate reduction, the lump sum rebate, on the GNI contribution. For the VAT contribution and the payment of customs duties, the rules are the same for all Member States. Given the high level of customs duties paid to the EU, Belgium may submit a significant volume of collection costs to the national budget. In the current discussions on this issue, it is important for Belgium that the 20% collection costs can be kept as well as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your constructive answer. I remember, above all, that you say that we are looking at the slopes for our own funding constructively. I also remember that the plastic tax is fast to be introduced, that the CO2 tax for products from outside the European Union should also be possible and that you are looking at the work at the OECD for the imposition of minimum taxes on multinationals. I also understand that, from the European Union and from Belgium, we must ensure that the work at the OECD can also make progress and lead to something. We should not allow ourselves to be threatened by the United States, to name one. Regarding the rebates and the discounts for a number of countries, the information you provide is correct. It is part of Mr Michel's proposal to spread it over a longer period. As far as VAT is concerned, I am pleased that you say that the collection costs we have as a country are important. They can become more important when there is a limit due to the Brexit, when it comes. I also understand that you are committed to maintaining the 20% collection costs. I think that is a good starting point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u39	Mr Loones, you have noticed that we are already well advanced in this round of questions. You also had a question about the European recovery fund. Would you like to add something to that? I have summarised the Minister's answer correctly, I hope. Let's see if we can take a step back on the order of questions. Mr Loones, would you like to ask the question about the German Supreme Court's ruling on the ECB's policy? Or do we consider them a matter of opinion? You wish to ask them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u40	Mr President, this question is about an important issue which we briefly referred to in committee last week. That is why I would like to talk to the Minister about this. The German Supreme Court, the Bundesverfassungsgericht, issued an important ruling on the European Central Bank, the ECB. A tension is being created between the lax monetary policy of that Central Bank and the vision of Germany and also of European and German regulations. In this context, a very interesting piece of opinion by Mr De Croo, the Minister for Finance, was published in Knack on Europe's Day, 9 May. It was a very interesting piece because the Minister confirms that the German Supreme Court points to an evidention that this tension field exists. It is not because it has the appearance of a European competence that this power can be extended, at least by a European institution. In the meantime, are there any new insights with the Minister? In Germany, the theme is in full swing. The European Central Bank has promised to provide a complete set of documentation to the German Parliament. This is done at the request of the German Parliament. All political groups have united and sent a letter to the ECB. I'm finalizing a letter myself, the same letter. I hope to discuss them here in consultation with the other groups and to deliver them to the ECB so that they will also provide the same information they have provided to the German Parliament. It would be interesting to know the Minister's views on this and to know whether he considers this to be valuable information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u41	Mr Loones, as you yourself point out, the European construction makes a distinction between monetary policy for which the ECB has exclusive competence and economic policy where the Member States themselves are largely responsible. The main task of the ECB is to ensure price stability in the euro area. Since the 2007 crisis, the ECB has developed new instruments to ensure the proper functioning of the monetary transmission mechanism and to ensure that we can remain sufficiently stimulating as policy interest rates are close to its lower limit, while the downward pressure on inflation continues. This has always been aimed at achieving the primary objective of price stability. The purchase of government paper on the secondary market is now reducing the cost of financing public authorities and other sectors of the economy, such as businesses and households. Nevertheless, the treasuries of the various euro area governments themselves remain fully responsible for their budget deficits and their financing. Indeed, the Governing Council of the ECB decides on the use of asset purchases, including government securities as a monetary policy instrument, on the basis of the risks to price stability within the euro area. Apart from the specific reservations expressed by the German court, his judgment recalls that a central bank cannot and must not replace the treasury or the governments in general with its measures. I don't think the ECB did. I believe that the ECB has acted within the limits of its monetary policy mandate, as confirmed by the Court of Justice of the European Union. The ECB's monetary action needs to be complemented by an economic and monetary policy to meet the unprecedented challenges ahead, but this requires coordination between the different EU Member States. Indeed, the EU is not a federal state, but it is also much more than just an international organisation or a treaty. It is an unparalleled political construction aimed at promoting peace, our common values and the well-being of its peoples. To this end, Member States have unanimously decided to grant the Union a number of powers. In some areas these are shared competences, but in other areas such as monetary policy, they are exclusive powers. Member States shall entrust their monetary policies, as defined in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, to an institution which they have wanted to be completely independent. That was also an important German requirement, by the way. In addition, Member States have unanimously granted the EU Court of Justice exclusive competence to say and interpret European law. The Court of Justice has definitively declared that the ECB has remained within its powers, as defined in that Treaty. That is why there is no room for national courts, including constitutional courts, to dispute these questions. If the Member States cannot agree unanimously, there is still the possibility of amending the Convention. I believe that in certain cases the use of a qualified majority would be better than unanimity, including in the area of taxation, because the negotiations on a number of fiscal issues are dragging on for far too long and because in the past some negotiations on fiscal matters were blocked by one or a few Member States because they linked their approval to the approval of other dossiers. I also believe that qualified majority voting could pose risks to smaller Member States, as their weight is much less. In the debate at European level on giving up unanimity in the field of taxation, I have always been constructive. It is also clear that there will be a step-by-step work to be done and that it will not be possible to decide on all the tax dossiers at the same time in order to remove unanimity. It needs to be thoroughly examined first. A first step could include measures to combat tax fraud and tax evasion and avoidance and measures to promote administrative cooperation and mutual assistance or tax measures to combat climate change and protect the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u42	Minister, in the past we have heard you more critically about the ultra-lake policy of the European Central Bank, in the committee and in your opinion document in which you wrote that the Central Bank can never play the role of a treasury or conduct an economic policy. I know that voice lives inside you, but it's a little less coming out today. So be it, as long as it lives in your head. I am pleased, however, that you continue to make a very consistent reference to price stability and not to inflation. I fear that in the coming months and years we will see why that remains the relevant reference. Last Thursday, we adopted a resolution in plenary session of the Chamber which explicitly refers to the European Central Bank. That Europe resolution has reached a large majority. We had tabled an amendment which said that the European Central Bank could use the space within the existing frameworks. Parliament, therefore, also makes it very clear that the ECB must comply with its mandate and that mandate must not go beyond it. It is important to bring that reference up again. The historic deal was, of course, that the euro could come on the condition that a German monetary policy was pursued. This appears to be less and less the case. We will probably continue to discuss this issue on a number of occasions. I also refer to today's judgment of the European Court of Justice on the fines that Vestager intended to impose on Apple. She didn't make it right. I would like to invite you to continue this debate in Parliament and to continue writing opinions. I'd like to invite the Prime Minister to read those opinion papers as well. I had asked her if she had read your piece and if it had been spoken through in the government, but it turned out not to be. Let's hear your voice. The Prime Minister can follow that voice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u43	I have tabled this question concerning the difficulty that could arise in corona period where Belgian assets would be disposed of or at a disadvantage in value by meetings of general meetings or extraordinary general meetings, a long time ago, and I would like to add one more element. As lawyers on behalf of entities that can also work to the detriment of Belgian assets and are at the same time members of the supervisory body in Belgium, I think there is a major problem with the supervision of transactions. What is your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u44	Mr Crombez, the power of attorney decision temporarily introduces a number of facilitations and options to enable companies to organise a general meeting in a lawful manner, without violating the mandatory rules against COOVID-19. The power of attorney shall establish an optional arrangement. Companies may therefore still apply the ordinary law without prejudice to the mandatory rules to combat COOVID-19. The question of whether the Royal Decree should be amended in the light of the evolution of the COOVID-19 pandemic and the adaptation of measures to combat it falls within the competence of the Minister of Justice. The FSMA's mission is to ensure that the information that listed companies are obliged to supply to the market enables investors to form a correct picture of the company's situation, namely in the exercise of their shareholder rights. In the context of that contract, the FSMA issued a Q&A on Royal Decree No. 4 published. In that Q&A, it makes a number of recommendations to promote the transparency of general meetings. It has also followed up on an individual basis the organisation of a general meeting by the listed companies. As I mentioned earlier, the Royal Decree essentially aims to provide companies with an optional legal framework allowing them to hold general meetings, taking into account the COOVID-19 measures. This is without prejudice to the other rules in force which aim to protect shareholders and the remedies at their disposal to ensure that their rights are respected where appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I told you, the question is what's out of date. I've asked the Minister of Justice about the rules. The reason why I also addressed a question to you has to do with the supervision of the FSMA. I understand that the additional question is not obvious, but I will continue to insist on an answer for the following reason. If the rights of small shareholders are compromised, this is done with the support of lawyers who are sometimes directly the overseer of the FSMA and who therefore have to decide whether or not small shareholders can exercise their rights under the laws and regulations. They are both executive parties, which attack the small shareholder, and protective party, which is to protect the small shareholder. You are competent in that regard, and I would ask you to pay attention to that, Corona or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u46	Mr President, it is very important for municipalities to know where they stand with regard to the supplementary income tax. In addition to the municipal fund and the property tax, this is an important source of income. I had already asked about any effects on revenue for the 2019, 2020 and 2021 revenue years. I do not know whether there is more clarity about this at the moment. Is there also a consultation with the municipalities and the cities, or at least good communication? For example, estimates can be delivered quickly, as soon as they are known, especially with a view to adjusting the multiannual plans and budgets that are currently starting and reaching cruising speed in the autumn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u47	Within the framework of the COVID-19 measures, it was decided to postpone payment of two months in respect of the collection of personal income tax for the collections from 12 March 2020. Since the incoherence of the personal income tax concerns both the federal, regional and municipal authorities, it is logical that there will be an impact on municipal finances. However, a distinction has to be made, depending on whether it is to be paid in return with an amount to be paid or with an amount to be returned. In the latter case, there is no impact on the authorities concerned, as the repayments continue. So it's only an impact that comes from the kohiering, when there's an amount to be paid. The exact extent of the impact is not yet known, as not all collections have been carried out. The deadline is still 30 June 2020, which is already over. At present, we estimate the amount of impact on municipal finances for the 2019 tax year at 100 to 150 million, on a global amount and additional municipal tax of the personal income tax of 3.3 billion euros. As regards the settlement of advances to the municipalities, I can tell you that it was already carried out in May 2020. All cities and municipalities already know this reckoning. Cities and municipalities that had a positive balance received this on 27 May 2020. Of course, other cities and municipalities should not pay anything. The federal government will offset the current negative balance with the deposit that will normally take place in June. In this respect, therefore, the municipalities have little difficulty. As far as the 2020-2021 attack year is concerned, little concrete can yet be said. The new macroeconomic expectations of the Federal Planning Office should be awaited before further provisional figures can be provided on COOVID-19's impact on personal income tax and, mutatis mutandis, on additional personal income tax. The impact of this extremely extensive COOVID-19 pandemic on our economy will not become clear until September 2020. There is currently no consultation with the cities and municipalities. As soon as such initiatives are taken, I will inform you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u48	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. These are special times for the federal government, but also for the local authorities, and so are their financial consequences. I therefore call for the data to be transmitted as soon as possible, as soon as they are known, transparently and, where appropriate, in consultation with local authorities, so that these effects can be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u49	Minister, Belgian-French workers pay their taxes in France during their working lives and in Belgium during their retirement. This is a rather unique situation since it does not happen like this with the other border countries. Belgium is in favour of the taxation of pensions in the State of source and is systematically trying to assert this position in any negotiations aimed at concluding a new tax convention with France. In 2016 there was talk of ongoing negotiations. Have these negotiations been successful? Will the pensions of Belgians who have worked in France be taxed in France and not in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u50	Mr Piedboeuf, the preventive double taxation convention currently in force between Belgium and France dates from 10 March 1964. For many years, negotiations have been under way for its replacement. These negotiations culminated in the initialling of a draft new convention on 12 December 2019. The initialled text is currently being reread and translated in both countries. The signature procedure will then be initiated. In the case of a mixed treaty, i.e. which is simultaneously within the competence of the federal authority, the Communities and the Regions, the new agreement will have to be signed by all the entities concerned. Once signed, the text of the Convention will be considered final and will be published by both States.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u51	Minister, thank you. I would have wanted to know what she was planning, but the text is coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u52	On 8 April it was announced that the asset manager BlackRock was appointed by the European Commission as an advisor to develop possible new banking rules in the area of climate, sustainability and ethics. The appointment of BlackRock as an advisor to the European Commission in this area is a bit like the appointment of a fox to guard the henhouse. BlackRock is the world's largest investor in fossil fuels. According to calculations by The Guardian, BlackRock currently owns about 3.27 billion barrels of oil and 1.35 billion tons of coal. In addition, BlackRock has invested a total of 87.3 billion dollars in fossil industries. There is a clear conflict of interest for the largest asset manager to make recommendations on the prudential treatment of banking institutions that are part of its own investment universe. Moreover, the content of the award is not coherent. The two main issues addressed in the report are the use of the European Taxonomy Regulation as a cornerstone of the sustainable financing agenda and the so-called materiality approach to reporting climate-related information. In recent years, BlackRock has been one of the main critics of the European approach on both themes, out of financial self-interest. It is strange that that same company should now issue neutral advice on these issues, hence my questions. What is your attitude to that decision, Minister? Have you contacted the European Commission to express your concerns or are you considering doing so? Will you try to reverse that decision? In a response, the European Commission states that BlackRock was chosen because its offer was the best financially and technically. In other words, the company was selected because it wanted to write that report for a bottom price and because it already had the most inside information, which is not really surprising either. Will you take an initiative to adapt the European rules for such procurement in the future so that such situations are no longer possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u53	The appointment of the consultant in question is a decision of the European Commission and according to it has been carried out in accordance with the rules in force. I have no reason to doubt that. Nor do I have any authority in that regard. The procurement rules should allow for objective selection. The assessment must be based on the criteria set, without discrimination and without prejudice. That is an important principle. If BlackRock made it, that's what happened on the basis of an objective assessment. That's what I'm assuming. Finally, I note that there are legal remedies to challenge such decisions where appropriate. If unelected candidates feel disadvantaged or unfairly treated, they are free to use these remedies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u54	I know, of course, that the European Commission took that decision and that this was not your competence. I asked how you relate to that decision and what your opinion is on it. The BlackRock was contracted on the basis of the criteria that it was best financially and technically. How this type of company relates to the content of the report to be written should make us think about what criteria we should include in such a tender and what role we can play in it. We must continue to ensure that certain lobby groups do not set themselves up in the European institutions or in the Belgian institutions in order to neutralize things before they are properly launched.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u55	Minister, on 18 March, a disturbing report was published on 35 of the world's most important banks. The figures in the report showed that these banks together supported the fossil energy sector by as much as 2.7 trillion dollars. The figures for BNP Paribas were also very remarkable. Of the 17 European major banks included in that list in 2019, BNP Paribas has provided the most additional funding to fossil energy. Some of the most remarkable figures relate to the financing of exploration and the provision of new reserves. The exhaustion of all coal, oil and gas reserves currently being exploited is already more than we can handle to keep global warming below two degrees. The opening up of new stocks cannot be reconciled at all with the Paris climate targets, and yet BNP Paribas has provided 30 billion dollars in funding for these activities over the last four years. We have already mentioned a number of times that Belgium is the largest shareholder of BNP Paribas through the FPIM, and both the law and the management agreement instruct FPIM to actively participate in the management of the companies in which it participates, and to engage in a strategic dialogue with them on a continuous basis. In addition, French legislation allows shareholders who hold more than 5% of the shares to pass resolutions at the general shareholders' meetings, which gives these shareholders the power to intervene and control in the dialogue with management. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. Have you taken note of this report? Have you had contacts with the management to address these figures? What concrete steps and initiatives has Belgium taken over the past year to steer the climate policy of BNP Paribas in a positive direction? What concrete steps and initiatives is Belgium planning to take in the coming year?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u56	Mr Vanbesien, as regards your first question, I am aware that the fossil fuel sector is a very capital-intensive sector and that banks, including BNP Paribas, provide much of this financing need. As for your second question, FPIM and BNP Paribas maintain constant and regular contact on the various important issues relating to the management of BNP Paribas, including climate-related issues. The total amount of credits granted by BNP Paribas to the oil and gas sector has remained stable since 2016. Its exposure to renewable energy doubled during the same period. Operations which have increased are not linked to BNP Paribas financing, but to participation in the structuring and dissemination of syndicated loans and bond issues on the financial markets. These relate mainly to transfers of existing assets between companies. They do not contribute to the creation of new oil and gas capacities. On your third and fourth questions, the BNP Group tests various tools and methodologies to evaluate the exposure of its credit and investment portfolio to climate risks as best as possible. For example, she supports, inter alia, the task force's recommendation to climate-related financial disclosures, which also performs and publishes information consistent with that recommendation. She is also committed to the science-based targets initiative. This coalition is a partnership of the Carbon Disclosure Project, the United Nations Global Compact, the World Resources Institute and WWF. The aim is to support companies pursuing environmental objectives in line with the Paris Agreement. In addition, she signed the Katowice Commitment in 2018 and in September 2019 the Collective Commitment to Climate Action led by UNEP. In this way, the group is committed on a constant basis to developing tools that allow it to align its loan portfolio with the objectives of the Paris Agreement. In addition, on 26 April last, a British NGO published the results of its research from 2020, Banking on a Low-Carbon Future, which analysed how twenty European banks manage the risks and opportunities associated with climate change. BNP Paribas is recognised by that NGO as a European bank leader. In 2019, BNP Paribas announced a timetable for the exit from thermal coal, which is foreseen by 2030 in the countries of the European Union and the OECD countries and by 2040 in the rest of the world. Today, GDP of the ten largest banks in the world is one of the only two that have set deadlines for exiting coal. Since 2017, BNP Paribas has not financed anywhere else in the world a project on coal power plants or coal mines. The Banking on Climate Change 2020 report, which compares 35 international banks, also emphasises the commitments and leadership of BNP Paribas in terms of restrictive fossil fuel funding policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have the impression that communication from the bank does not always correspond to reality. There are intentions, but I'm not entirely convinced that the intentions will always be met. You yourself say that investment in fossil fuels has remained flat in recent years, while the report states that BNP Paribas provides the largest additional financing for all European banks. In any case, I am pleased that you are also concerned and that we continue to make this clear to the bank. However, we will continue to monitor the results closely and to see whether the representative of our country will continue to take the necessary initiatives on this matter on that board.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u58	Questions 55007012C and 55007015C by Mr Vanbesien have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u59	Mr President, Minister, on 6 June 2020, the Kern plus 10 decided, among other things, on a consumer cheque of EUR 300, 100% deductible and tax-free. Perhaps not all employees will receive this consumer cheque. It depends on the employer's goodwill whether or not to award this check. The estimated cost of this measure was EUR 221 million. How do we get the sum of EUR 221 million? Is that a conservative estimate?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u60	The impact of this measure was not calculated by the tax administration. I cannot explain the calculation of the amount of EUR 221 million you mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u61	The Minister for the Budget, Mr Clarinval, mentioned that amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u62	In principle, costs could only arise from the tax deductibility of the cheques. After all, it is something that one gives that one would not otherwise give. The only costs are those in corporation tax. It could also be said that there is a compensation through VAT, of additional consumption, which may be of a slightly lower level, but which is nevertheless a certain compensation. I'm surprised at that amount. I will inform my colleague. Looks like it's high to me. I'd be surprised if it was that high.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u63	Mr Van der Donkt, you have one more question to ask Minister Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u64	Mr President, I had asked the question to both ministers because I knew in advance that ping-pong would be played. I understand, Minister, that it is difficult to assess this, and that is why I am asking how this EUR 221 million will be obtained. That will probably be a cautious assessment. It is better to register a little more as a cautious and far-sighted Minister for the Budget than to adapt too little and afterwards. I will follow this up and question your colleague on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u65	Minister, last year the Limburg parquet announced that it would launch an investigation into criminal benefactors at amateur football clubs and associations. The reason was an investigation from the Netherlands in 2018 which showed that a criminal benefactor was active in at least 36% of the Dutch municipalities. This can happen in different ways, for example at a sports club in the form of sponsorship or as a board member, when a criminal benefactor organises a charity or events himself. Minister, can you clarify whether money laundering by criminal benefactors through sports clubs and other associations is a problem here too? Have we got any figures on that yet? Do you see any ways to avoid that? Is it possible to launch a comprehensive information or awareness campaign to make sports clubs and associations aware of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u66	In recent years, the Financial Information Processing Cell has dealt with a number of dossiers, including dubious investments in local associations or sports clubs. The initial reports of suspicious transactions in those files concerned money laundering by criminal organisations through investments in cash-intensive commercial transactions. After further financial research, however, it was found that investment was also made in local association life, not so much to launder criminal income, as there is usually no or little return, but to buy off influence and goodwill from the local community. The CFI further reported those files to the public prosecutors for serious evidence of money laundering from drug trafficking and organised crime. The focus in the files was on the whitewashing aspects, but the support to associations or local communities was also mentioned in the research reports. Between 2016 and 2019, there were five files for a total amount of EUR 150,000 in suspicious transactions that could be considered as support to associations. In the strategic analysis Money laundering from drug trafficking in early 2019, the CFI also raised the issue of criminal support to local associations. The conclusions of the analysis were shared with the financial institutions so that they are aware of the potential risks. In the current economic context, characterised by a severe economic crisis, there is an increased risk of criminal organisations investing undeclared money in companies in financial need. Criminal support to local associations is also relatively limited and often takes place in cash, which may not be absorbed by the detection system of the financial institutions. Sometimes knowledge of the local situation is also required in order to be able to correctly assess which aid should be considered problematic. The actors in the preventive anti-money laundering system are aware of the problem of criminal investment in the local social fabric and will investigate suspicious transactions in this context. In addition to this financial approach, initiatives for community action, local police and municipal authorities are needed in the administrative approach to organised crime and are likely to be more efficient in combating criminal investment in local associations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u67	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I am glad to hear that there has already been contact with the financial institutions to give them some kind of guidance, but I also note from your answer that there is an important task for local police and local authorities. I therefore think it would be a good idea to extend awareness to both local authorities and the local police, as well as to clubs and associations. They must be aware of the dangers. However, this is not usually easy. Perhaps this element can also be taken into account in the discussions with the sports federations on tax provisions, which we have just discussed, and we can offer them a whole package of information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u68	Minister, this is where we bridge the gap to your reply from there, when it was said that the corona crisis also gives rise to increased vigilance on money laundering and abuse. We can then look at the initiative taken by the European Commission together with Europol on 5 June to set up an investigation unit, EFECC, precisely to focus on financial crime that is expected to rise as a result of the corona crisis. It is said that a whole range of industries are at risk, such as the construction, catering, tourism and travel agencies, because criminals can infiltrate these sectors and use them for money laundering. Minister, can you clarify in what way the federal government, and possibly also the FPS Finance, can cooperate with the EFECC? Can you clarify what other additional measures are being taken to deal with the expected wave of financial crime caused by corona?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u69	As far as your first question is concerned, I refer to the Minister of the Interior. Under the new rules on VAT cooperation, the members of EUROFISC, i.e. the officials of the Belgian Special Tax Inspectorate, can provide information and ask questions to Europol. In this way, the BBI is working together with the new European Centre on Financial Crime. During the corona crisis, the BBI established a special team responsible for the screening of applications for refund of VAT. More than EUR 80 million have been blocked so far, without any significant objections. This immediately proves the fraudulent and opportunistic nature of these applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that the BBI is already responding to the dangers of financial crime. We will continue to follow that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u71	Mr President, Minister, this dossier has been going on for some time. In 2017, the first voices called for this. That was then by Andrea Enria of the ECB Supervisory Board, who proposed the creation of a European bad bank in which all the acid loans from the banks could be placed, but that proposal was fired. The proposal recently came back into the news, because the new President of the ECB, Christine Lagarde, put it on the table. She also referred to a number of discussions on this subject, hence some questions, Minister. Are you aware of these calls and are you involved? Can you tell me anything about that? To what extent can the proposal be relevant to us? I am thinking mainly of Dexia. What do you think of the possible repercussions? I see that France in particular supports the proposal and when we see the French, we always think of Italian banks, especially what is happening there. The French banks have a high exposure in this area, so the risk of contagion is always high. I would therefore like to hear your views, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u72	Mr President, Minister, the creation of a so-called bath bank would be considered to cope with a possible sharp increase in problematic loans. This idea was discussed and subsequently rejected in the euro area more than two years ago, but now, under its new President, Mrs Lagarde, the ECB would have consulted banks and civil servants in recent weeks to roll out such a bad bank as a reservoir for loans facing repayment problems. Given the potential increase in problematic debt in the euro area from the current EUR 500 billion to as much as EUR 1 trillion, a bad bank could prevent the issue of bank lending to the real economy. I have the following questions, Minister. What is the current status of the plan? How far have the plans gone and is there a task force at European level to make the plan concrete? Has the establishment of such a bad bank been discussed this year at the European Council, the Council of Ministers or at any of the preparatory meetings? Has the National Bank of Belgium already been involved in the first ECB consultations? How does Belgium relate to such a plan? Should it become a reality, what conditions should such an establishment fulfil, so that Belgium can give its support to it? How do you estimate the risk of doubling the number of problematic outstanding debts in the euro area? How does the evolution of such debts in Belgium relate to the other countries in the euro area?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u73	Mr President, I would like to refer to my reply to the oral question on 20 April 2020. Neither myself nor my services, the National Bank or the Treasury are aware of the possibility of setting up a so-called European bath bank. Nor have I heard of such discussions between the ECB and the European Commission. There is therefore no concrete proposal at the moment, so it is difficult for me to respond to it. It is also unclear whether existing bath banks, such as Dexia, would be included in such a structure if that structure were to be established. However, I have no indication that such a structure would be established.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u74	Minister, I understand that you cannot respond to something that has not yet been formally transferred. However, there is some fuss in the corridors. We assume that the fact that at least two groups are asking for this will encourage you and your services to pay attention to this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u75	I agree with Mr Loones. We will follow this closely and we will ask you to inform us if there are any questions for you, the National Bank or the ECB.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u76	Mr. Secretary, it's already Corona that beats the clock. That's understandable, too. It has a huge negative impact on health but also on the economy. We also see that this argument is used for almost all situations. Very recently, I saw Greece sticking its finger in the air to say that they had also received a sum of money as a result of the whole discussion about the Grexit at the time. Think about the rescue plan and the support package. Now Greece uses Corona's argument to say that they cannot comply with the terms of repayment. Have there been any further discussions? If this were to happen, what financial exposure would this give to Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u77	I am not aware of a question from the Greek Government to change the terms of the third aid package. However, it is clear that the corona crisis will have an impact on all Member States and that it will have to be taken into account. At no meeting of the Eurogroup, the Greek Government made such a proposal. This has not been discussed with my European colleagues. Greece has also never indicated that it intends to repay the debts within the 2010 bilateral loans, the first aid package, early and thus to change the conditions and characteristics of these loans. Since there is no proposal on the table, there is therefore no impact for our country either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u78	My Greek is not perfect, my English is not so bad, and so is my Twitter line. The great advantage of ever having been part of the European Parliament is that I follow quite a few newspapers, including Greek ones. A few weeks ago, there were a number of articles in the newspapers on this subject. The fact that there is no formal question yet is possible, but in this case, a notified man is worth at least two.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u79	Debates of the European Parliament 55007336C by Mr Van Hees has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u80	Mrs. Van Camp, I've been notified that you still need to turn on your microphone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u81	Mr President, my microphone has been activated. Minister, I refer to the new VIA agreement imposing more benefits on cities and municipalities for their staff. It is interesting to offer them in a form that also supports the local economy, for example through local cheques. The problem is that these benefits have been limited for municipal authorities and that the tax deductibility of local cheques for 2020 has been increased in the context of the corona crisis. However, this has not yet happened before 2021 and beyond. As a result, cities and municipalities will certainly highlight this option before 2020 but not yet for the coming years. Because of the great impact of corona, which will emerge not only in 2020 but certainly also in the coming years, I would like to ask you the following questions. Do you intend to increase tax deductibility permanently or for a few years, especially in the context of that VIA, so that the municipalities can make the right choice and pay out the benefits in local cheques as much as possible? In this way, the local economy, our traders, the catering industry and local businesses can be better supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u82	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, you are probably talking about the EUR 300 duty-free consumer cheque, which was decided at the core plus 10 of 6 June 2020. The purpose is to limit the validity of the cheque to 12 months from the date on which the obligation to close establishments belonging to the catering sector is lifted as part of the urgent measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The cheques may be issued until 31 December 2020. There are no plans to extend the measure in the future for the time being. This is an example of a temporary measure being introduced because of a temporary crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u83	Mr President, Minister, I was there. I know the limitation, which is exactly what I'm talking about here. I hope that, on the basis of my question, you will certainly consider the possibility of extending the measure I fully support to the years to come. Especially in the context of the VIA agreement, local authorities should quickly receive an answer to this question so that they can actually redeem the benefits for their staff for the coming years. It is a win-win situation because the money is also injected into the local middle class. I hope, after my question, that you will certainly look at the dossier, for which I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u84	Minister, I asked this question in October, February and June. In June I also asked whether the National Bank's study on the costs of asylum seekers was delayed as a result of the corona crisis. You replied that there might be a slight delay, but not much and that you still expected the study results to be available by the summer. Today is the last committee meeting for the summer recess and I thought it would be a good time to hear whether the study is still on schedule. It's summer now, do you have any idea the exact date of completion of the National Bank study?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u85	Mr President, the results of the study on the economic impact of migration in Belgium will be presented to the Regent Council of the National Bank of Belgium at a date to be determined in September or October of this year. They will then be published in the National Bank's economic journal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u86	Mr Minister, did I understand correctly, did you speak of a postponement to September?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u87	The Minister said effectively that the study is presented to the Regent Council in September or October.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u88	That's too bad. There was always talk about it before the summer. What does asylum seekers cost this country, which is data that our people are entitled to and are really waiting for. It is a pity that you are speaking now of September, when you had always said that the timing of the summer would be achieved. Be sure that I will be standing here again in September with my question; I will continue to follow the issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u89	In an earlier reply, Minister, you said that an update of the board table had arrived at the cabinet around 1 March and that a follow-up report would be drawn up and delivered to the Chamber, on the recommendations of the relevant committee within your competence. Minister, what is the timing of this? Is that follow-up report there yet? When can we take note of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u90	The follow-up report with the recommendations, which falls within my competence, I will deliver to the Chamber as soon as possible. People are working on it. We hope to be able to make that board table available by the end of August. We admit that we have some delay there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u91	Minister, I fully understand that, given the situation over the last few months. We look forward to that report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u92	Mr Minister, the retention of progress means that income from abroad is taken into account to determine the rate in Belgium. Now there is a judgment of the Court of Appeal of Antwerp which states that one should also look at the status or type of income from abroad. If these are valued at a separate rate, they must be left out. On the basis of that case-law, it is therefore possible that other revenues are unduly subject to the retention of progression. In your reply to a written question, you indicated that the administration was investigating the possibility of cassation against the judgment in question. In that context, I have a number of questions. Is or was a cassation appeal filed? If so, on what grounds? Will you instruct the administration to draw up a debrief to take account, if necessary, of the conclusions of the judgment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u93	In the meantime, my administration has completed its investigation and will not file a cassation appeal. It will, however, draw up a letter which will examine not only the income in question, i.e. the annuity benefit, but also other income which is taxable separately in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u94	That's very clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u95	Minister, this question is part of the supplement law, which is currently in force, and deals specifically with one aspect of it, in particular the sharing platforms. Several sharing platforms have been recognised and a list of such platforms exists. In an earlier question, I asked you about the control of that. You replied that, logically before a platform comes on the list, there is a preliminary investigation to determine whether the platform meets all the conditions. I wonder, when the administration finds that all the conditions are met and that the platform in question is placed on the website as an approved platform, whether the conditions will be verified from that point on. While some platforms are in order with all the conditions at the beginning, they no longer meet all the conditions in the future of the story. When people use the platforms listed on the list, they naturally assume that they are perfectly in order. If this is not the case, users may get into trouble. Mr Minister, can we assume that sub-platform platforms on the list also meet the conditions at that time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u96	Mr President, Mr Matheï, we must distinguish between the conditions for recognition and the conditions for exemption from income. The recognition does not automatically confer the right to exemption from tax on income paid through the platform. Before a platform is recognised, an investigation shall be carried out to show that the platform fulfils the conditions set out in Article 53.1 of the Royal Decree Code of Income Tax 1992. The investigation concerns only the formal conditions to be met by the platform in order to be recognised. After the publication of the approval in the Belgian Official Journal, checks will be carried out if there are indications that all the conditions are no longer met. If it appears that a platform no longer meets all the conditions, I do not believe that there is any legal procedure for withdrawing recognition. As long as the recognition of the platform has not been withdrawn and all the other conditions for the application of the tax system of the collaborative economy have been met, that system may apply. However, once the withdrawal of the recognition of the platform has taken effect, the basic legal requirement for the application of the tax system of the collaborative economy is no longer met. In order to benefit from the tax system, the services in question should only be provided under agreements concluded through a recognised platform. Where, in a given year, the provider also obtains income for services of the same nature through a non-approved platform, the entire income for the whole year shall be excluded from the sharing economy system. The withdrawal of recognition of a platform shall be published on the website of the FPS Finance and shall have effect from the 30th day following its publication. The service provider therefore has sufficient time to decide whether or not to continue to provide such services through the relevant platform after the withdrawal of recognition. The element I mentioned just now about the fact that there is indeed no provision for a procedure for the withdrawal of recognition should be addressed. I'm in favour of that. As soon as we could make a 'law miscellaneous', I am quite prepared to add that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u97	This would indeed add value to those who use the platform, as far as it is, of course, still relevant and can be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u98	Mr President, Minister, the latest report of the Financial Information Processing Unit (FTIC), covering the year 2019, mentions the number of reports received from economic actors required to provide information. What is striking is the difference in the number of statements. For example, financial institutions filed 11,237 returns in 2019, but for the same year, diamond traders and lawyers returned only 15 and 11 returns to CTIF, respectively. This means that lawyers, for example, have reported a thousand times less than financial institutions. This is all the more worrying because the questionable role of some Belgian lawyers has been pointed out in the Dubai Papers case, which has been the subject of numerous ethical complaints from citizens and associations to the bar, which has found these complaints admissible. As far as diamonds are concerned, CTIF itself points out a few large-scale diamond files due to serious money laundering indices related to serious tax fraud (this is on page 18 of the same report). Minister, how do you explain the low number of returns from diamond dealers and lawyers? Are you considering measures to address this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u99	Mr Van Hees, in relation to your first question on the diamond trade, it must be admitted that the number of reports of suspicion coming directly from the sector is still relatively small. It should be stressed, however, that steps have been taken to remedy this situation, and I shall return to that. As far as lawyers are concerned, it must first be made clear that Article 5, § 1, 28° of the Law of 18 September 2017 limits the cases and activities in which the lawyer is covered by the LBC/FT obligations. It establishes in article 52 of the same law a special mechanism of communication with the CTIF, with a passage through the stick of the Order to which it belongs. Article 53 of the Act provides for an exemption from the provision of information to CTIF in the course of their legal defence and legal advice activities, as it recognizes the professional secrecy of lawyers. Pursuant to Article 52, lawyers who, in the course of the activities listed in Article 5, § 1, 28°, are confronted with funds, operations to be carried out, or the acts referred to in Article 47, are obliged to inform immediately the College's staff member to whom they belong. The staff member shall verify compliance with the conditions referred to in Articles 5, § 1, 28° and 53. It must verify that the lawyer acts well within the scope of the law before deciding to forward information to the CTIF. His assessment does not relate to the suspicion made by the lawyer. If the conditions of application are met, the stick shall immediately transmit to the CTIF, in an unfiltered manner, the information received by the lawyer. The Constitutional Court in its judgment No. 10/2008 of 23 January 2008 states that the information known to the lawyer in connection with the exercise of the essential activities of his profession, including in the matters listed in Article 3, 5°, of the Law of 11 January 1993 referred to in Article 5, §1, 28°, of the Law of 18 September 2017, namely the legal assistance and defence of the client, and legal counsel, even outside any judicial procedure, remain covered by professional secrecy. Therefore, they cannot be brought to the attention of CTIF. While more collaboration from the sector could be expected, these factors partly explain the smaller number of reports of suspicion received from lawyers. The financial sector is by virtue of its specific characteristics (nature of proposed financial activities and products, customer profiles) naturally faced with a larger number of financial transactions that may be related to money laundering or terrorist financing. It is therefore no wonder that this sector makes more statements than lawyers. With regard to diamond traders, several measures have been taken to improve supervision and detection of suspicious money laundering operations in this sector. First, the Antwerp World Diamond Centre (AWDC) has undertaken to raise awareness among its members on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing. Training on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing is regularly organized by AWDC. In 2019, several documents were prepared and published by AWDC to help diamond dealers better meet their LBC/FT obligations and to improve the transparency of financial flows in this sector. AWDC has created an anti-money laundering cell with an officer compliance that helps diamond beginners meet their obligations. In 2019, the SPF Economy, the LBC/FT Diamonds Supervisory Authority, updated the sectoral analysis of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing in the diamond traders sector. As part of this analysis, several coordination meetings were held at the SPF Economy in Antwerp with stakeholders to discuss the findings of the analysis and recommendations to improve mechanisms for the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing in the sector. All these measures should improve the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing in the sector. With respect to lawyers, section 85 of the Act of 18 September 2017 designated the Boundaries of the Orders to which lawyers belong to oversee the plan of the LBC/FT, and ensure that they properly implement the LBC/FT obligations resulting from the Act of 18 September 2017. Batons may, under the law, impose administrative sanctions on lawyers who do not properly apply the above-mentioned law. CTIF had coordination meetings with the two Bar Associations to discuss, among other things, the number of reports of suspicions received. Section 121 of the Act of 18 September 2017 allows CTIF to provide feedback to supervisory authorities on the quality of reporting processes of entities subject to this Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u100	Minister, thank you for all this very detailed information, including many legal references. I wonder: isn't your answer the explanation for the problem? These filters that exist for lawyers probably mean that there are so few reports to CTIF. But isn't that a problem? Should we not review this legislation, which puts too many filters, compared to what lawyers could transmit as problematic cases of money laundering and terrorist financing? Asking the question is answering it. As far as diamonds are concerned, I take note of the various measures you have mentioned to moralize the sector, if we can speak of them as such. But I have the impression that measures such as the carat tax are not likely to improve the controls that can take place, such as the control of diamond stocks in tax matters. This is the kind of measure that promotes fraud and money laundering in this sector a little more than before.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u101	Minister, over the past few years, the FPS Finances has no longer provided annual reports in a single PDF-type document, which is easy to consult and keep, making it difficult to observe trends in figures between years. However, much more damaging in terms of transparency, the last annual report simply lacks statistical annexes. Dozens of tables published in previous years have disappeared to give way to only meagre key figures. The justification for this pruning by the SPF finance spokesman in Le Vif - L的Express of 9 July 2020 - "In view of the attendance statistics, we have selected the most interesting and consulted key figures" - is a dismay. Since when has a public service been entitled to flout the need for transparency in the name of a form of hearing? Can you direct the FPS Finance to apply the principles of transparency to which it is bound by publishing on its website, for the year in question and the following, a document containing all the statistical annexes that were available in previous years?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u102	Dear colleague, the FPS Finance has always made all its figures available to those who request it. Until 2019, these figures - including the tables published in the annual reports - were made available to everyone. In 2020, it was decided not to publish these tables in the annual reports for three reasons. Firstly, these figures are little, if any, consulted. A quantitative analysis of the consultations showed that the vast majority of the numerical tables had been consulted less than 20 times - consultations by FPS staff including Finance. Secondly, the preparation of these numerical tables required a significant investment by many employees of different administrations. The tables in HTML or PDF format are not easy to view, and the comparison between years also appears complicated. If we compare the effort required to the results achieved, it does not appear efficient to continue to do so. As a result, it was not decided to stop publishing these figures, but simply not to include them in the annual report. However, different administrations continue to collect data, and numerical tables will be published online in a more appropriate format. Third, various figures, figures and statistics are published on the FPS Finance website under the heading "Statistics and analyses", which contains many relevant statistics.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u103	Minister, thank you for your answers, which I would have preferred, however, to be clearer. On the one hand, you give reasons not to publish these figures and, on the other, you tell us that some are published elsewhere. Are all the figures that were available before in the annual report still public? Is it possible to get them? I was hoping that you would say that the FPS Finances is bound by this transparency obligation, regardless of the number of people who consult these figures. I thought you were going to defend this principle, but I am disappointed to see that this is not the case. If these figures are not there, and if you refuse to direct the FPS Finances to publish them, I see no alternative but to send you written questions to get these figures, which I consulted in the annual report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u104	Mr President, Minister, it is my responsibility that citizens did not receive a tax return by 30 June 2020, which is the deadline for entering the tax return completed when no Tax-on-web is used. When they call the administration – since the FPS Finance website does not mention any e-mail address – they are not informed of the reason for the absence of a declaration or of a possible delay in the post. It is therefore necessary to file a complaint to discover that the reason for not sending the statement is in fact due either to having used Tax-on-web last year or to having activated the e-box. This is the mail received by those who file a complaint. However, there are many reasons why we are unable to use Tax-on-web, even though in the past we have used – or received help to use – online services. Minister, do you find it normal not only for citizens not to receive a paper declaration, but also for them not to be notified of this non-delivery? Should we not send a paper return only to those who have explicitly accepted it? Although the unnecessary sending of a declaration may seem to be a significant financial and environmental cost, is it not proportionately more serious to push citizens into a situation of non-reporting whose financial harm can be very severe at the level of these people? Finally, is it normal that citizens should be encouraged to use Tax-on-web, but that the administration should only be reached by telephone and not by e-mail?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u105	Mr.President, Mr.Van Hees, since the 2019 tax year, the FPS Finance no longer sends paper returns to taxpayers who used Tax-on-web the previous year. In 2020, the FPS Finance added taxpayers who activated their e-box. To the extent that the taxpayers concerned had already entered the digital channel and filed their returns electronically, it was no longer appropriate to send them a paper return, which was in any case unused. This measure, which was presented at the 2019 tax declaration press conference, helps to reduce financial costs but also mainly environmental costs. Indeed, in 2018, a paper return had been sent to about 500,000 taxpayers who were still completing their return via Tax-on-web. The administration uses the channel used by the taxpayer the previous year. In this way, it is not caught in the dark. If he has used Tax-on-web, he will not receive paper the following year and will complete his return or consult his Simplified Tax Return (SFT) proposal electronically. If he or she has filed his or her return or PDS in hard copy, he or she will continue to receive paper the following year. On the other hand, it is always possible for taxpayers who wish to receive a paper return to make an explicit request, for example if they are unable to use Tax-on-web. All they have to do is contact their competent centre by telephone. A declaration will then be sent to them within a maximum of two months. The administration has made the choice to reduce the use of the e-mail address especially for security reasons. It does encourage the use of online services, which is why it continues to develop them. The use of this channel is more secure, as the taxpayer had to identify himself via his eID or itsme. On the other hand, the telephone is a more efficient channel than the e-mail, both for the taxpayer and for the administration. FPS Finance is also aligned with a service delivery model developed by the OECD.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u106	Minister, thank you for your answers, even if they do not satisfy me. Indeed, the FPS has decided to change its policy on sending the paper return without informing taxpayers. The latter are therefore not aware of the decision that has been taken. I understand that the paper declaration represents budgetary and environmental costs. But this is, in my view, a question of proportionality. In addition, the impact of non-reporting can be very significant for the taxpayer budget. This element should be taken into account. Indeed, taxpayers are being placed in a situation as they wait until the last moment because they were not given an adequate answer on the phone and were told that their statement would arrive. And finally, at the end of July, they did not return it because they did not receive a satisfactory response from the FPS Finances, which is damaging to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u107	Minister, FSMA has noted an increase in financial scams on the Internet or over the telephone during the period of containment and debunking related to the health crisis. It would appear that fraudsters have taken advantage of the fact that a large number of confined people spend their time on the web communicating fraudulent investment proposals to them. The technique remains the same: Mirobolant-yielding financial products are offered to the consumer, investments in the purchase of masks or the production of chloroquine with a return on investment or stock management offers with interest rates higher than those on the market. Once the money is paid by the consumer, he never sees the color again. Unfortunately, fraudsters take advantage of the fact that many of our fellow citizens suffer a loss of income and are therefore attracted to these so-called guaranteed returns. It is clear that these scams are likely to lead to dramatic situations as they affect people already in precarious situations. I wonder, minister, about the extent of this phenomenon and the measures put in place to deal with it. Do you have more precise figures on the number of people who were victims of these scams during the health crisis? Is there any idea of the money lost by our fellow citizens as a result of these frauds? In an answer to a written question I addressed to you, you assured me of the good cooperation between the FSMA and the judicial authorities. In this context, have complaints been filed for fraud committed during the crisis? Have any specific measures been put in place in view of the proliferation of these scams?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u108	I can point out that the FSMA did not notice during the containment period a significant increase in the number of notifications of investment fraud that could result from the VOCID-19 crisis. Indicatively, in the first half of 2020, the FSMA received 493 notifications from consumers compared to 495 in the previous year. FSMA, however, observed during this period that fraudsters did not hesitate, in the context of investment frauds, to exploit the news of VOCID-19. The FSMA has therefore issued numerous warnings to make consumers aware of the risks of scams in the context of the crisis related to VOCID-19. Statistics on the exact number of victims of these frauds during the health crisis and the total amount lost are not available. However, as an indication, the FSMA was contacted during this period by 31 consumers about investment fraud related to VOCID-19. Of these, 32 reported that scammers used the VOCID-19 crisis to justify non-payment of promised sums. Four of them reported that new amounts were being claimed for additional taxes due to the VOCID-19 crisis. Consumers reported losing a total of €23,654. Five of these consumers reported receiving fraudulent investment offers that were presented to them as an alternative to banks that might experience a crisis associated with this pandemic. These consumers invested in these offers for a total amount of EUR 25 901. The Autorité des services et marchés financiers (FSMA) has also received nine reports of phishing exploiting the current events of the VOCID-19 crisis. FSMA actively collaborates with the judicial authorities. When answering questions from consumers who are victims of investment fraud, FSMA systematically advises them to file a complaint with the judicial authorities. Moreover, in addition to the publication of a warning, the FSMA denounces to the judicial authorities the facts relating to investment frauds which it finds in the context of its control. It shall regularly communicate to the judicial authorities the new information obtained in connection with such investigations carried out in the cases complained of. FSMA also responds to requests for information from prosecutors and investigating judges. It does not, however, have a view of the number of complaints to the police concerning investment fraud. FSMA systematically denounces the new websites operating irregularly in Belgium to the judicial authorities. In the interests of prevention, this administration has also taken the initiative, where appropriate, to propose in the context of cases which it denounces to the judicial authorities the blocking of access to websites offering fraudulent investment offers. In 2019, 173 blockages were made, mainly following a decision by the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. To answer your third question, the FSMA has developed tools and procedures and has taken a number of initiatives to make financial consumers aware of the risk of investment fraud as well as to help victims of such fraud, namely the treatment of consumer issues, the provision on the FSMA website of all this information useful to consumers in order to enable them to avoid investment fraud, the very regular publication of warnings against websites of companies acting irregularly in Belgium or, on general issues, the systematic reporting to the judicial authorities of new fraudulent websites addressed to the public in Belgium or the availability of the compliance officers of credit institutions of a list of all foreign bank accounts whose use has been noted in the context of investment fraud. In addition to these daily actions, FSMA has also taken the following specific initiatives to combat financial fraud. In January 2020, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the FSMA gathered the press to communicate publicly on investment fraud in order to raise awareness among the Belgian public. This is a first joint communication action between these respective authorities. Moreover, since fraudsters usually come into contact with their victims through social networks, FSMA has launched a digital campaign against investment fraud on Facebook and Google. This campaign, whose slogan is "A bid too beautiful to be true: how can I say no?" is conducted entirely online. It aims to warn potential victims against offers that are too beautiful to be true. It will be conducted in two waves. The first wave was launched on 19 June 2020 and targets pensioners. The second wave is scheduled for the fall. The first wave of campaign communication has already been a great success. It has reached more than 700,000 people on Facebook and generates a total of 7.8 million views on Facebook and Google. As part of this campaign, FSMA also proposed on its website a new test that allows consumers to assess, on the basis of nine questions, whether the investment offer made to them is fraudulent. The result obtained gives an indication of the risk of fraud. In addition, in order to raise awareness of investment fraud and to constantly renew the message, FSMA is also considering other actions, such as the development of animation videos addressing this topic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u109	Mr President, Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. I thank the FSMA services for all their work to warn our fellow citizens. Through the figures you have quoted, we find that this is more than necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u110	Minister, we recently learned that in 2019, the controls carried out by the tax administration on the accounts of Belgians held abroad had brought more than €87 million to public finances. The figures reported by the administration show that the checks proved to be conclusive: of the 11,223 cases examined, 75% were positive and therefore led to an additional interest or dividend tax. Much of this money has been recovered through the exchange of information between States, whether within the European Union, through the DAC directives, or through inter-State agreements - as is the case with Switzerland. It has therefore become much more difficult for someone to conceal part of their heritage in another country, since the administration now receives information about it. Moreover, the fact that more and more Belgians are reporting their foreign accounts to the tax authorities shows this: in 2018, 173,048 accounts were spontaneously reported, while in 2019, this figure amounted to 321,752, almost double. However, given the limited human resources available to the tax administration and the percentage of positive checks, it can no doubt be assumed that a significant proportion of these accounts held abroad are used for the purpose of avoiding taxation in Belgium. We are therefore certainly, with this EUR 87 million, facing the tip of the iceberg. Minister, when we talk about this amount of $87 million, are we talking about enrolled taxes or actually recovered taxes? How do you explain such a high percentage of positive controls? What resources, both material and human, are available to the tax administration to control and recover these hidden sums from the Belgian Treasury? In which states were the audited accounts the majority?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u111	Mr President, is there a vote right now in plenary?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u112	Minister, a motion has been tabled to place item IVG on the Orders of the Day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u113	We are counting on some of you to fully support this. In answer to your first question: the amount of EUR 87 million corresponds to the additional income recruited during the checks carried out in the framework of the exchange of international data on accounts held by Belgian residents abroad. The tax on these income supplements is 30% but depends on the particular situation of each case and the possible exempt allowances that would apply to it. In answer to your second question: the essence of the risk management service is to maximize the performance of the controls performed. This objective involves, among other things, maximizing their productivity. To achieve this objective, as part of the international data exchange, the selection process highlighted files with a total absence of foreign real estate income or files with a significant difference between the revenues known to the administration and those reported. The availability of the information for the taxing agent in the Taxi application and for the taxpayer via MyMinfin makes it more indisputable that these information exists in the context of the procedure for correcting the declaration. In answer to your third question, the administration has, as a first step, set up an automated process to identify information received from abroad. It was supported by a network of agents responsible for the manual identification of information that could not be identified in an automated manner. These were thus made available to risk management via the data warehouse in support of the tax agent selection process via the Taxi application, and in support of the checks to be carried out by taxpayers via MyMinfin as part of compliance. For the foreign service, the files selected in this framework are treated as a priority for their high performance. It should be noted that with regard to recovery, the Belgian tax authorities are most likely to have recourse to a procedure for mutual assistance in recovery as provided for in international legal instruments. The general administration of collection and recovery has multi-purpose employees who are competent to initiate such a procedure. In answer to your fourth question, the country of origin of income is not a selection criterion. The distribution of the countries in which the accounts are held for the files selected for audit follows the general distribution of the origin of the accounts held abroad. The four countries bordering Belgium thus represent the majority of the accounts held by Belgians abroad. The other countries in which Belgian residents hold the most accounts abroad are Spain, the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Italy, Poland, Portugal and the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u114	Minister, thank you for this answer, which shows that we still have a lot of work to do in terms of tax evasion. There's obviously a lot of work on the board.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u115	I see that the vote in plenary is still not on computer screens. I assume that all Members present have a connected computer to be able to vote. [[Oui]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u116	Mr President, Minister, since the beginning of the health crisis, the European Central Bank (ECB) has taken measures to address the economic and social consequences of the coronavirus crisis. The most emblematic of these is the Pandemic Emergency Purchase Programme (PEPP) which consists of redemptions of debts of states and companies for a large amount of 1,350 billion euros. At the same time, the ECB also decided to refinance 742 banks at a negative rate of €1,300 billion. In other words, the ECB will pay the banks for credit to their customers. Although these interventions may have beneficial effects, including reducing the risk of debt crises, they should be highlighted, particularly by looking at past programmes. Moreover, the ECB's policy of quantitative easing in recent years was not exempt, since the 2,600 billion injected into the European economy between 2014 and 2018 were also vectors of speculation in the head of banks, the creation of financial bubbles or the financing of polluting activities. As we barely emerge from an unprecedented health crisis with colossal social and economic consequences, it would simply be indecent for banks to use this money to fuel speculation, not the real economy and our citizens, who really need it. If banks are helped again, it must be in the general interest and above all in order to avoid a socio-economic disaster. Minister, do you have any figures on the allocation of money injected by the ECB into banks between 2015 and 2018? If so, what can be seen at the level of Belgium? If not, are steps taken to ensure that more is known in the above-mentioned crisis programmes? Are there any guarantees that the 1,300 billion granted in relation to the TLTRO will actually be spent on the real economy, and therefore on appropriations for citizens and SMEs? If not, should we not advocate this at European level to help our businesses and citizens? Chairperson: Jan Bertels
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u117	Mr President, Mr Bayet, monetary policy measures to combat low inflation include the provision of liquidity, but also the maintenance of key ECB interest rates at historically low levels. In general, neither the favourable financing conditions nor the liquidity to be injected were restricted to specific uses. Nevertheless, there is every indication that the eurosystem's monetary stimulus, including the amounts injected into the banking system between 2015 and 2018, has contributed to the banks providing more financing to the real economy and at advantageous rates. Model-based estimates show that the recovery in the momentum of lending to the real economy of the euro area would have been slower in the absence of monetary policy measures introduced from mid-2014. Belgium is certainly in line with its estimates which apply to the euro area as a whole. Since 2014, the dynamics of lending to non-financial enterprises have been particularly strong, i.e. above the euro area average. The lending rates to financial corporations and housing have fallen to the pace of successive declines in the ECB's floor policy rate. Maintaining the rates on the floor has thus preserved the financing conditions advantageous to the real economy, despite the increased trade and geopolitical tensions of recent years. The potential undesirable side effects of particularly accommodative monetary policy are closely monitored by the Governing Council of the ECB. This is for example the case for financial bubble risks. So far, there have been no signs of widespread financial overheating. In addition, in order to address non-generalised risks, the tools of prudential policy remain preferred. It is in this context that, in view of the acceleration of the Belgian credit cycle, the National Bank imposed specific measures on Belgian banks in June 2019 to counter the overheating of the residential real estate market. In particular, with regard to monetary policy measures taken in response to the VOCID-19 crisis, there is mainly the Pandemic Emergency Purchase Programme (PEPP) and the relaxation of targeted long-term operations (TLTRO). These measures have been able to avoid a pro-cyclical tightening of financial conditions. In particular, the PEPP has been able to counter the increase in spreads in the private and public bond markets. Business market financing was thus able to resume, after an abrupt first reaction of the financial markets at the beginning of the crisis. The PEP also contributed to maintaining favourable financial conditions for all euro area countries on the sovereign bond market. This has facilitated the support that fiscal policy currently provides to the economy and has avoided market fragmentation within the euro area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u118	Mr Minister, I am sorry to interrupt, but we must suspend the meeting, because a vote is under way in plenary in which we must participate. So we'll suspend for a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u119	Mr President, the vote has just been opened. I just voted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u120	Please, this will allow me to breathe a little!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u121	Excuse us, minister, but it's important!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u122	It's much more important than this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u123	The relaxation of the conditions of the TLTRO III decided in response to the crisis of the VOCID-19 is likely to further support the granting of bank loans to the real economy despite the deteriorating and uncertain macroeconomic environment. The general principle of TLTROs is that the more a bank lends to the real economy, the more it can borrow funds via TLTROs and the more it can obtain funds at an advantageous rate. In the face of this health crisis, conditions have been revised. From now on, the borrowing rate of the TLTRO funds can fall to -1% for the period June 2020 to June 2021, provided that participating banks maintain their lending to the real economy, excluding housing loans during the crisis period. This particularly advantageous tariff therefore clearly provides an incentive for banks to support the flow of finance to businesses and households that need it during this difficult period. Thus, there is a very large peak in lending to non-financial corporations from March onwards for all euro area countries, reflecting the increased need for liquidity of non-financial corporations and SMEs, in particular for which bank credit is an important source of financing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u124	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u125	Mr President, Minister, a recent study conducted by the NGO Tax Justice Network unfortunately confirms, once again, that tax evasion is extremely costly for public finances. It identifies a "axis of tax evasion" in Europe, based on four countries, namely the United Kingdom, Switzerland, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. This would be the cause of a significant share of tax revenue losses in relation to many US multinationals. According to the study, these losses amount to $27.6 billion per year. To identify this axis, Tax Justice Network has, among other things, compared the profits of US multinationals in these four states with those of other EU countries, including ours. The result is clear, as 271 billion have been recorded in the four countries of the axis, compared with only 102 billion in all the other Member States of the Union. The reason is that out of the 271 billion transferred to the countries of the axis, these multinationals paid only $15.9 billion in taxes, representing an effective tax rate of 5.8%. Worse still, Belgium would be among the countries most affected by these scandalous transfers of profits, with only $2.6 billion in annual tax revenues. At a time when we are talking about a fall in Belgian GDP of 10.6%, a public deficit of between 10% and 12%, and several tens of thousands of jobs lost as a result of the health crisis, these revelations are simply unacceptable. That is why I would like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. Were you aware of the above study? Or, failing that, were you aware of the magnitude of the amounts lost as a result of the tax policy of some of our closest neighbours, just as far as the US multinationals are concerned? Next, Tax Justice Network proposes to relaunch the Consolidated Common Corporate Tax Base (CCTB) or adopt a minimum corporate tax rate in Europe to address this problem. Would this not be a good way to avoid transfers of profits and, therefore, the losses caused by this tax evasion? Similarly, could we not finance part of the European Union's recovery plan with these sums thus recovered?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u126	Mr President, Mr Bayet, I confirm your knowledge of the study you mentioned. Following its review by my administration, it appears that the assessment of the tax evasion in question is based on an incorrect method, both for the overall assessment and for the distribution between countries. However, this assessment is not intended to call into question the existence of the erosion of the tax base caused by tax competition. As you say, the phenomenon could be mitigated if the States between which it currently prevails agreed on the establishment of a harmonised tax base or a minimum level of taxation. These two avenues are being explored for the time being, respectively within the European Union and the OECD. In the first case, this is the CCCTB, to which you refer. Work on this subject continued under the auspices of the Croatian Presidency of the European Union. They will resume with the German Presidency, as soon as the contours of the OECD's plan to tax the players in the digital economy are known with greater certainty. The CCCTB will, however, concern only the Member States of the European Union and will therefore have no direct impact on the way in which the two of the four States included in the study in this so-called axis of tax evasion, namely the United Kingdom and Switzerland, design their taxable basis. The other route, the minimum tax level, is the subject of the OECD's Global Anti-Base Erosion Proposal (GloBE). This proposal is being drafted to ensure that multinational groups seeking to transfer their income to States do not impose them or very weakly nevertheless bear a minimum level of taxation. In order to do so, various means are envisaged, all of which refer to a minimum tax rate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u127	Minister, thank you for that answer. I will contact this network again to find out what method has been used. It is clear that this highlights a serious problem. The CCCTB may not be the miracle solution, but we have to start with something. It is of course always the question of the egg or the chicken. Are we waiting for the whole world to make the same decision, in which case do I think we'll never make it? Or does Europe show the way? The United States under Barack Obama has already done so by calling for the removal of bank secrecy from Switzerland and still has it. I think we can move forward on all tracks because this injustice can't last any longer. It is very difficult to make Belgian citizens and entrepreneurs understand why they pay more and more taxes, while a whole series of multinationals pay nothing or almost nothing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u128	Minister, the National Centre for Development Cooperation (CNCD-11.11.11) published on 23 June a study on the action of central banks in the crisis we are experiencing. They have often been at the centre of the game in the last few weeks. Their role has been and continues to be crucial to alleviating the economic crisis – perhaps only the first fruits of which are known – and the risks of slipping into financial markets. Faced with the challenges that will arise tomorrow because of the debt caused by the coronavirus crisis, the time may now be ripe to adapt the mandate of the European Central Bank (ECB) by integrating climate risks and specifying that carbon neutrality, full employment and financial stability are as important objectives as price stability. This is one of the conclusions of this document, which also addresses the problem of the European Union's own revenue, which will have to make it possible to repay this growing common debt. On this point, the text puts forward several avenues of solution, first and foremost the fight against the tax optimisation of transnational corporations, which, each year, causes $650 billion in tax revenue losses according to a 2015 study by the International Monetary Fund (IMF). Have you read this study? What do you think about the possibility of changing the ECB's mandate? How does the government position itself on this within the European framework? What remedies do you prefer, in the current context, to answer the question of the European Union's own revenue?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u129	I have indeed read this study. The proposals contained therein go beyond the current mandate of the ECB, which is an independent institution. To change this mandate, an amendment to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and an amendment to the Protocol on the Statute of the European System of Central Banks and the ECB are necessary. This means that a majority of Member States must agree with these changes. The Belgian Government has not yet taken a position since this point has not been discussed. On several occasions, however, the ECB has already indicated that it wants to take more account of the green, cleaner and sustainable economy in its operations with banks. As regards the remedies to answer the question of own resources, the Belgian Government has not yet taken a decision. I believe that a mixed solution will be the only way to achieve an adequate level of own resources. For some of the proposed instruments, such as the fight against tax optimisation of transnational corporations or the tax on digital services, a more comprehensive solution will be needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u130	Thank you, Minister. We are well aware that the idea of changing the mandate of the Central Bank is very ambitious. Nevertheless, I wanted to bring this study before this committee, which deals not only with the role of central banks but also with sovereign debts and the issue of the cancellation or restructuring of these debts. It is worth looking at the other aspects of this study, which could fuel political reflection in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u131	Mr President, Minister, the taxation of internal problems is an issue that is high on the agenda of the European Parliament, but at least one proposal has already been put forward in this House. I have a few questions about that. It is seen that the debate is taking place internationally within the framework of the OECD, the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which is seeking to establish a framework for this purpose at a multinational level outside the European Union. That's not going too fast. Yesterday I read an article at Bloomberg, which also referred to the hearing that took place in the European Parliament. Director General of Economic and Financial Affairs Benjamin Angel said it's not working out. He was mainly talking about the tension with the United States and whether we should not wait for the elections there. He immediately added that whether it will be the democrats or the Republicans in America, we know that they will not really be in favour. He seems to be guided by temporization. In addition, we have had the debate with Mr Luc Batselier of the Belgian Permanent Representation to the OECD, who wonders what that might mean for us. Suppose that tax is introduced, what does that mean for the state treasury of this country? He says the proceeds will be minimal, that we couldn't get much out of that. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, as far as the possible yield is concerned, can you confirm or not confirm Mr Batselier's figures? In the broad scope, of course, because one can use the parameters one wants, but there seems to be a framework there. What could be the proceeds of that? Secondly, what exactly is the link with the United States? The US has now again announced a package of trade sanctions with additional charges towards France. The US immediately states that it will not do so for the first year and a half, provided that France puts GAFA tax on ice for one and a half years. What trade sanctions could be taken against us? What economies are sensitive to the United States? Thirdly, there is also a more general debate on the Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base, the common consolidated corporate tax base. I think that CCCTB deserves a much more important debate because it will really determine where a company is valued. It is seen that the parameters currently used for this purpose are mainly in favour of large industrialised countries. In Europe we are talking about France and Germany. There is my fear that we could only bring in a symbol with GAFA, which I personally believe we should levy that tax. It is illogical because this is a company form that now escapes valuation. It makes sense that they pay too. If we took that trophy symbolically, we'd lose a huge amount in the CCTTB field. Then the balance is lost.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u132	There is no doubt that the introduction by individual states will be a very difficult exercise. France introduced this tax in 2019, but in the meantime put it back on hold to avoid problems with the US. Most of the so-called inter-terrorists are, of course, based in that country. It seems, therefore, that it would rather be necessary to reach a comparison at supranational level in order to give the introduction of these taxes a reasonable chance of success. Initiatives are being taken to this end, both at European level and at OECD level. As far as possible yields are concerned, it is still speculative to put forward figures. After all, everything depends on the final legal basis that will be adopted in order to determine how large the yield will be. I can't anticipate things right now. I can tell you that the revenue in France during the first year was EUR 280 million, compared to an estimate of EUR 500 million, which is just over half the estimated amount. As measured by the size of Belgium vis-à-vis France, a similar tax in our country would only have a fraction of the French tax, but I am not going to pin myself on it. It is true that the upcoming presidential elections in the US are hampering an agreement at OECD level on the design of taxation of digital economy actors in October this year. However, work is continuing intensively. The goal remains to end it and even reach an agreement by the end of the year, i.e. after those elections. As always, I insist that such a tax should ideally be introduced at European level. Indeed, unilateral and potentially divergent initiatives by Member States would harm the single market and would lead to distortions of competition, disproportionate administrative burdens for affected companies and a risk of double or even multiple taxation. We therefore remain absolutely in favour of a solution at OECD level. The unilateral introduction of such a tax in Belgium should only be considered as a last resort, i.e. if there is no global or European solution. If we decided unilaterally to approve a digital service tax, we would be at risk of trade sanctions by the US similar to what France has caused to suspend the application of the tax, i.e. very high customs costs on Belgian exports to the US. As you say, the US has already threatened to impose such reprisal measures on other European states which intended to take unilateral initiatives, such as Germany and Italy. In any case, the digital service tax proposed by the European Commission is not formally linked to the CCCTB. The first is regarded as an indirect tax, while the second is a direct tax on companies. However, there is no doubt that if the introduction of a digital service tax were to be re-examined at European level, its possible impact on the CCCTB, for example through its deductibility, would have to be carefully analysed before reaching agreement on its adoption.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u133	Thank you, Minister. I believe that we all agree on this. When corporate tax was introduced, those digital giants did not exist yet. The digital economy didn't exist yet. As a result, these companies are not taxed today, and that is not really fair. This needs to be addressed. I remember two things from your answer. Firstly, we need to look at how we can deal with this with our international partners in order to ensure that it has real effect. Secondly, it has raised EUR 280 million in France. That's a country that's about six times bigger than Belgium, isn't it? For Belgium, I will be 40 or 50 million euros. I am afraid that if you balance that out for the CCCTB, we will win a trophy while we lose something important at the same time. But this is a debate which we will undoubtedly continue in this committee. This is my final question to you before the recess, Minister. I would like to thank you for the very fine and thorough cooperation. In the first year of this legislature, because as far as I and our group are concerned, it promises to be interesting years to come. You can already be taken as an example of a minister who respects Parliament and allows cooperation to proceed smoothly. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u134	Mr Vanbesien, do you have anything to add after the reply you have just heard?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u135	Mr President, this question is, to a large extent, on the same subject. I will therefore come straight to the specific questions. Minister, what exactly is the position of the United States at the moment? You have said that they will wait there until after the presidential elections, but are you sure they will come back afterwards? Isn't this final? Could Belgium take an initiative unilaterally, pending the OECD or Europe? I understand that this could only be done at the end of the day, and I have not heard a no. Will Belgium now urge the German Presidency to proceed immediately with the CCCTB and, if possible, to conclude an agreement within the German Presidency?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u136	As has been said, the US presidential elections are hampering the reaching of an agreement, but we will continue to work. Such a tax at European level remains our preferred option, otherwise it could lead to double taxation and disproportionate administrative burdens. The unilateral introduction can only last. So your summary was good.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u137	I do not think this issue will go away anymore, because the public will be convinced that we need to do something about it. I hope that we will make progress in the coming years, preferably at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u138	A few weeks ago, we read the article in De Tijd by Steven Vanden Berghe, the top ruler. He says there's billions of dollars in black money in the Belgian accounts. This happened approximately at the same time as the book performance by Karel Anthonissen, former regional director of the BBI, who said that the black money that Belgians have parked at home and abroad can still yield tens of billions of euros to our treasury. Since then, many parliamentarians from different groups have shown the clear will to make the fight against fraud a top priority. It is therefore important not to dwell on words, as has often been the case in the past. You yourself said in the plenary session of 25 June 2020 that it is quite clear that when a government comes with a full mandate, the fight against tax fraud absolutely must be part of that mandate for you. That's why I have a few questions. What do you think are the necessary measures to be taken by the next government in the fight against fraud, both regulatory and political? With regard to the current permanent fourth regularisation round, do you share the view that it would be advisable to set a clear deadline by which we put an end to the possibility of regularising? Would you leave that open, as it says in the law today? Mr Van den Berghe explained that the regularisation of capital in the first rounds of regularisation was not compulsory. On 25 June 2020, you stated that the existing fourth regularisation round follows a different logic. Now it would be mandatory to regularize the aged capitals, while in the past this was only an option. A number of fiscalists dispute this. Are you sticking to your interpretation of the law and are there any court cases in which you know that this obligation to regularize all of the old capitals is challenged?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u139	Your reference to what I said in plenary is correct. I also wanted to refer to this. I said that it was up to the negotiators to put this into practice. In my view, this applies equally to the possible expiry date of the current regulatory regime. If the parties involved in the government negotiations consider it necessary to set an end date there, this can certainly be taken into account in the negotiations. With regard to this regulation, the so-called fourth round of regularisation, there is a reversal of the burden of proof. Tax-depleting capital must be regularised unless the taxpayer can prove that the capital has undergone its normal tax regime. At present, there are about a dozen court cases pending before the court of first instance in Brussels on the issue of tax-delayed capital. By the way, on 29 June 2020, the court delivered a first judgment, which was beneficial to the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u140	Thank you for your reply, Minister. We have seen in recent weeks that people from the field of work offer a very realistic source of funding in these difficult times. They transcend their role, so to speak, by making these suggestions public. I therefore hope that their proposals will be carefully examined and that any legislative changes that would be necessary to obtain correct information will receive broad support in the next government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u141	Minister, multinationals are pursuing an offensive tax optimisation strategy. While some still doubted, the latest OECD Corporate Tax Report, released on July 8, 2020, provides further evidence. The organisation analysed the aggregated data of 4,000 tax returns from multinational companies and found a gap between the place where profits are reported and the place where economic activities are carried out. However, corporate tax remains more than ever a fundamental source of income for states as the OECD tells us that it accounted for 14.6 per cent of total state tax revenues in 2017, compared to 12.1 per cent in 2000. As you know, in June, the United States announced a pause in the talks that were taking place under the auspices of the OECD and that should have resulted, by the end of the year, in an agreement on the taxation of multinationals. All of this confirms my willingness to make a fair contribution from these companies, a subject on which I have tabled a motion for a resolution. Following the American withdrawal, Pascal Saint-Amans, whom we received and heard two weeks ago as part of the debate on this text and who is the director of the OECD Centre for Tax Policy and Administration, said that this should not prevent other countries from moving forward in order to find a solution that would be "ready for employment" after the American elections. Minister, have you read this OECD report? Could you take stock of the current talks at the OECD? What mandate has Belgium given to its negotiators? As we know, France has decided to move forward alone on the taxation of GAFAs. You keep saying that we can't move on to this case alone. What then do you think of France's position? Is it such as to inspire Belgium's?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u142	Mr President, the second edition of the Corporate Tax Statistics, which has just been published and to which you are referring, has received my full attention. Be aware that I share your wish to achieve a fair tax contribution from multinational companies! In particular, with regard to the taxation of GAFAs and other players in the digital economy, it is true that the prospect of presidential elections in the United States undermines an agreement at OECD level in October this year. However, the work continues with great intensity. I continue to believe that it is at the global level that a solution must be found in this regard, especially since unilateral initiatives pose a risk to States of being subject to trade sanctions on the part of the United States. The latter have already threatened to levy very high tariffs on their imports from several European states, including Germany and Italy, which had considered unilaterally adopting a digital services tax. Furthermore, similar threats of reprisals have led France to suspend the application of its tax pending a European solution. By far I prefer to act at European level. I think that the introduction of a Belgian tax should really be the last option to consider if a coordinated measure appears impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u143	Mr Minister, I will be brief, especially since we have already had debates in committee on the resolution I am dealing with. I would simply like to refer to the initiative taken by four internationally renowned economists, Joseph Stiglitz, Thomas Piketty, Jayati Ghosh and José Antonio Ocampo, who are advocating the introduction of a tax on multinationals and a tax on wealth. For example, they have set the minimum corporate tax rate at 25 per cent worldwide. It is indeed imperative to move forward, and the American elections will certainly be decisive in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u144	We now come to Mr Friart's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u145	Mr. Chair, in order not to unnecessarily delay the minister, I will simply ask my last question and ask him if he can give me the answers to my first four questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u146	Mr Minister, I could read in La Libre Belgique of 19 June 2020 that the ECB has granted, in the context of the coronavirus crisis, nearly €1 310 billion in loans to banks in the euro area. Seven hundred and fifty banks reportedly applied to the ECB for loans running over three years. These loans would be a good deal for banks, as the ECB would have determined, under certain conditions, a negative rate of 1%, which means that banks will receive money from their credit. Minister, can you confirm these figures first? Then, can you tell us if Belgian banks have made use of these loans? If so, which ones? At the same time, it is apparent from the business world that banks are reluctant to lend money to companies despite the state guarantee. Last March, you presented an important support plan, with a EUR 50 billion guarantee scheme for businesses, a device called "bazooka" to combat the economic effects of the coronavirus crisis. The aim was to ensure that banks provide new credit and new lines of credit to non-financial enterprises, self-employed and non-market organisations that are viable for a period of 12 months. Minister, can you tell us to what extent this "bazooka" has been used at this stage? On the other hand, it would appear that a "bazooka 2" scheme is being prepared to better meet the demand for credit from SMEs. Can you explain how it works? How does it change the initial device "bazooka 1"? What about the distribution of risk-taking between the state and banks? Finally, it would appear that some banks systematically refuse credit to certain sectors, such as retail trade or horeca. Can you confirm this situation? What is in place to prevent banks from refusing loans to independents and SMEs from sectors they consider to be at risk?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u147	Mr Friart, thank you for your question. The extension of the banking guarantee measure is on the agenda of the plenary today. It's actually an adaptation. The current measure continues to exist, but the date until which loans can be made has been extended until the end of the year. These are cash credits, for a maximum of 12 months. The new route is open for appropriations of 12 to 36 months. These are not cash credits, but rather investment credits for other purposes. It is specifically oriented towards SMEs, according to the European definition of SMEs, thus up to 250 employees. The guarantee scheme has changed a little: it is no longer with a first loss of 3%, and then a share of 3 to 5, and then 80-20. In fact, it is from the outset a sharing of 80-20 in the case of loss. I understand that the demand is very strong specifically within SMEs to have access to long-term guaranteed loans than the current scheme. As far as use is concerned, it is important to look at the total volume of appropriations. There has been an increase in the volume of appropriations for March and April compared to last year. In my view, we do not yet have data for the month of May. This is the result of several effects. We can imagine that there have been fewer investment loans in this period but that there have been more liquidity loans. What matters to me is that the total volume increases. I do not currently have data for the various sectors. However, we have a return mechanism whereby companies that have not received funding can contact: either the FSMA or the mediation service that tries to trace potential problems. Clearly, the granting of credits remains subject to economic analysis. The goal has never been for every credit application to be granted. This must be consistent with a valid economic project. We want to ensure that banks' appetite for risk remains measured. That is the reason for this guarantee scheme.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u148	Mr Minister, it is indeed important to be able to extend this appropriation from 12 to 36 months, because we realize that the crisis of the coronavirus will continue. The effects it has had on businesses, if only in the last three months, have been very intense and destructive. It is therefore important that companies can more easily rebuild their cash flow and liquidity over a period of 36 months. I have also taken note of the change in guarantee scheme. This is important, because the banks were really very tiring in the face of this credit. This new guarantee scheme will only encourage the granting of credit to our companies. You also mention the increase in the volume of appropriations. Indeed, not all are likely related to investments, but many are linked to cash credits. Finally, you refer to the contact point, which is also important. Minister, thank you and see that we are ending up in a good mood.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic242x.u149	If I understand correctly, all the questions have now been dealt with. Mr Friart, would you please check with the secretariat what happens to your other three questions? I note that they've been withdrawn. Thank you very much, Minister, for coming. We can start with a clean slate in another committee. Colleagues, thank you all. We have a nice plenary sitting ahead of us. It's not over yet.
