ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. This is a topical debate. I have heard that some Members thought that we could already work via video, but unfortunately our room is not yet equipped to do so. That will be the case for our next meeting. The Members who had tabled a question today, but who are not present because they did not know that we would physically meet, can postpone or convert their questions into a written question. In principle, the Rules of Procedure prescribe that in a topical debate each speaker has two minutes per question, but many questions were tabled. I will respect the order of transmission, but I suggest that every speaker asks all his questions straight away. I also propose that speaking time should be limited to four minutes per speaker. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Mrs Özen will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u2	Minister, in normal times, our prisons are already under stress. Add a virus to it, and this tension reaches its peak. Indeed, we were able to witness violent scenes of confrontation in various prisons in the country. A fire broke out in Jamioulx, while escape attempts took place in Lantin and riots broke out in Arlon and Leuze, during which agents were injured. Prison staff, who have been understaffed for some time, have multiplied strikes to denounce the disastrous conditions in which they work. Today, these agents are competing without sufficient protection. Like hospital staff, they are on the front line and obviously deserve our full gratitude. And I would like to thank them, because they work in fear of being contaminated and contaminating their families, but also to spread the virus in prison, especially to prisoners - who live in deplorable conditions of detention, in the absence of hygiene and health care. A prison is itself a confined place, where each cell accommodates two or three people in nine square metres. Colleagues, over the last few days, we have all felt this feeling of being trapped in our own house. Yet we can go out to buy food, do sports, cook, etc. Despite all the means of communication at our disposal, we suffer from this change that forces us not to see our families and friends. This obviously affects our morale. Therefore, imagine this confinement pushed to the extreme, with three inmates occupying 9 m2 23/24 hours and taking two showers a week and one meal a day. Mr Minister, these are truly inhuman and unworthy conditions in our country. This isolation has been even more radical since the removal of visits and the deprivation of contact with the family. In order to obtain a gsm, it is necessary to pay 2,000 euros. The tension continues to rise, as the anxiety of being contaminated increases, especially since the prison is a suitable place for such a risk, given the promiscuity, overcrowding and lack of hygiene, the sun and ventilation in the cells. This may favour the circulation of the virus. Minister, what hygiene measures are being taken to protect staff and inmates? When will you provide the necessary basic material (freeze, masks, etc.)( )? How will you arrange screening in prisons? How many inmates have been granted extended leave? How many early releases do you envisage in order to be able to organize confinement as best as possible and to ensure respect for social distancing?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u3	Mrs Özen, did you also ask your question No 55004568C?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u4	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u5	Minister, in the face of coronavirus, prison workers, prisoners and their loved ones are very worried. They now fear the consequences of an in camera epidemic. The unions have passed on their demands for several weeks. The capacity of staff is the first consideration. Indeed, the workers are understaffed and exhausted, but this is not the case today! Trade unions also question the administrative management and procedures of staff security, whether the officer is in the field or in telework, quarantined or contaminated. In addition, prison officers, who are exposed to significant risks of contagion, call for systematic screening of workers and detainees, as should be the case for all persons in risky conditions. In addition, officers were seriously injured during the last mutinies in Lantin and Leuze. It is therefore essential to take the situation in prisons seriously. Minister, what measures are envisaged to address the understaffed situation of prison teams? The weekly diet can be up to 50 hours of work and some rest periods are cancelled. Will a new calculation of the "flexi-prime" be made? Will you ensure that workers who have hours to recover will not suffer any financial loss? Is a VOCID-19 bonus provided for every prison staff member – considered essential during this crisis? Can workers who wish to cancel their leave to come to work do so? Is there a plan for prison staff or specific groups – such as kitchen staff – to test for VOCID-19 through occupational medicine? If so, when and how often? What is the plan for the supply of sanitary equipment (gants, masks, soap, hydro-alcoholic gel) for each establishment? Can we get a copy of it? Where does this material come from? Is it certified and compliant? Will you reduce the price of telephone calls and certain products (savon, canteen, television) so that the frustrations of the inmates and aggressiveness towards the agents can decrease?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u6	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55004125C and 55004438C by Mrs Bury will be converted into written questions. We shall now turn to questions. 55004174C, 55004211C and 55004365C by Mrs De Wit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u7	Minister, special circumstances call for special measures. The same applies to the Justice Department, and that has an impact on every actor at Justice, both on someone who works in court, in prison or as a police officer and on the prisoner. I had similar questions to those put by other speakers. In prison, too, the situation is not clear. You have taken a number of measures. Visiting is no longer possible, but there is additional call credit. Basic licences shall be suspended. New penitentiary leave is suspended. I have a number of very specific questions, which I have also tabled. I could refer to it, but I'll list a few anyway. We read in the media what is the right situation in prisons today. It is not evident, either to the prisoner or to the penitentiary officer. In which prisons is there a problem with infections? What prisons aren't so bad? What's the playbook when infections are diagnosed? What measures are being taken to protect the other prisoners as well as the staff? All this is not evident, of course, as the previous speakers have pointed out, because the possibilities in prisons are more limited than before. Are specific measures taken to avoid escalation? Are you okay? Is it morally held in it or is extra special attention required? Will you give that attention, too? Minister, you have also taken measures on the situation in prisons and more generally on the execution of sentences. There have been conversion letters and a royal decision has been made, including the impact on the detainees. After all, for those who already had a penitentiary leave, that leave is extended. Do you have any figures on that? How many prisoners are potentially eligible for this? What's the impact on the overpopulation? After all, I understand that in order to reduce concentration in prisons, you have decided to do so, which is obvious. You have taken other measures in the area of criminal justice. The non-urgent convictions are suspended for the duration of the corona crisis. Of course, it will have to be assessed which convictions are urgent or non-urgent, which will also succeed. I just hope that there will be no malhears. Do you have any figures in this respect? How many inmates are we talking about? How many convictions aren't carried out for the time being? I understand that those who have been convicted and come to six months from the end of their sentence will be able to be released early. It would be interesting to know how many prisoners are eligible and, more importantly, how they will be controlled. If, after all, there are penalties, with conditions attached to them - they are being released early and there are conditions - then how will that be checked? The issue of electronic surveillance is also raised. I understand that at Flemish level, as far as possible, we want to continue to carry out and monitor electronic surveillance, as it has been imposed. How's this cooperation going? I would like to receive a number of figures and an outline of the situation today regarding the execution of the sentence and how it is carried out in practice. From the situation in prisons to the execution of sentences and immediately to enforcement, I put a question a while ago about the coronaspuwers and their criminal classification. In the meantime, there have been circulars and guidelines on how to deal with them in practice. It is a good thing that directives have been issued, even if they are followed more strictly in one place than in the other. Do you have any idea whether enforcement, qualification and, ultimately, prosecution are now going well in practice, or whether there should be legislative changes here and there? While we are talking about enforcement, I had tabled another question, but it was not added. I have no doubt you can answer them. Since last weekend, we have had a royal decision on the gas fines. It is a pity that this royal decision did not come sooner, because that is, of course, the better way for our policemen to maintain order. They looked forward to that. I have an important question. Minors are excluded, which means that the police can only raise an admonition to them. With the warm weather and the Easter holiday, it is absolutely not evident to be able to enforce the rules. There are still some uncertainties with regard to that royal decision and the conditions, especially with regard to the practical solutions. How will administrative and judicial enforcement relate to each other? That remains a big question for me, all the more so because the alternative, such as the immediate collection or friendly settlement, which is normally part of the public prosecutor's duties, is now mainly passed on to the police, which currently has other tasks to carry out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u8	According to the agenda, we now come to Question No 5, by Mr Beazley, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats) I suppose we can postpone her question, given the current circumstances. That is also the case for Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the I will ask my own questions at the end of the round of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u9	Madam President, Minister, I would like to ask you two questions on two points. My colleagues have already mentioned the extremely complicated situation in prisons with a whole series of restrictions, with the smallness that leads us to believe that the spread of the virus is more than likely, with the forbidden visits, with the feeling of loneliness that is taking place, with the canteens that are no longer functioning, with the nervousness and aggressiveness that appear, and which lead in particular to the incidents that have taken place in different prisons. Lawyers multiply their actions to allow the release of detainees for medical reasons but also for unworthy conditions of detention. You have ordered measures to grant extended leave or early release, but lawyers and prison directors consider these measures insufficient. Minister, what is the reality on the ground? How many prisoners have actually been released or placed on extended leave and in what proportion per prison? What health measures have been put in place for both staff and detainees? What are the prisons in which coronavirus spread and in what proportion? That is the point with regard to the prison component. This is the second aspect of the fight against domestic violence, which will probably not surprise you. I had the opportunity this morning, together with other colleagues, to question the Minister of the Interior. We know that while there has been no increase in complaints by the police and prosecutors' offices, the number of appeals for assistance to victims is increasing. There are 30 to 50 per cent more calls with extremely critical situations, emergency situations. Last week, you met several of your colleagues from federated entities in a working group, an interdepartmental conference or a task force – I don't know what to call this meeting – on violence. According to the press, a number of measures were taken on this occasion. As I informed the Minister of the Interior this morning, these measures seem to us to be totally inadequate, given the urgency of the situation for these women – as they are mostly women – who find themselves alone in the face of violence, who do not know how to call for help, who are unable to turn to the outside world. About ten days ago, I had the opportunity to propose a series of measures that we believe are feasible. In fact, these are good practices that exist elsewhere. So I didn't make up hot water. I just took the time to collate them. In particular, I would like to mention the fact that police areas can systematically call all victims who have manifested themselves by means of a complaint or fact sheet in the last three months. We should be able to impose it on police areas. I talked about it this morning with the Minister of the Interior. To impose it, why? Because the police areas, at present, say that since they don't have any training to do so, they don't do it. We know that the victim service in the police areas could do that. You can take a circular with Minister De Crem to impose it. It's a first part. The second part is to make pharmacists referents, as is done in Spain and France. They're here to act as an intermediary to the police department to contact. Of course, they already have multiple tasks, but if they receive instructions to do so, that would be possible. I also asked the Minister of the Interior about the possibility of making a text message number specifically dedicated to emergency and violence. This exists for 112 for the deaf and hard of hearing. I think the technique is known. These three measures cost almost nothing, are relatively practicable and are capable of protecting victims. Minister, what do you think? Can you report back to us on your meeting on Thursday? I know a meeting is scheduled in the next few days. But unfortunately, it cannot wait ten more days for you to come together to take action. There are really dramatic situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u10	Madam President, my questions relate to the same two subjects raised by my colleague, Mrs Matz. These seem essential to me in this difficult period of containment. First of all, the handling of cases of domestic violence. It is up to us from the field associations, such as family law lawyers, that these measures to keep at home increase the risk of domestic violence in families where such violence was not previously observed, as well as such violence worsens with confinement, whether physical, psychological or sexual. Next to this, as we can see, the line of listening to domestic violence has seen its calls double, while we know that confinement makes it difficult to contact this line of listening. We are really facing an extremely worrying situation. Fortunately, the Interministerial Conference took the lead in meeting last Friday. In addition to measures taken upstream of this phenomenon, especially with regard to federated entities, the federal government must be able to play its role in protecting victims and prosecuting perpetrators. In this regard, the encouraging and interesting elements emerged. For example, I will note that the prosecution of perpetrators of violence against women remains a priority for the College of Attorneys General. We still need to know how this priority can be realized. I also note the strict application of your circular, Minister, and of the College of Attorneys General, that is, COL 4/2006, which has been referred to all prosecutors. In addition, in these exceptional circumstances, prosecutors have organized themselves to act as effectively as possible against domestic violence. In this context, the temporary ban on residence is an opportunity to put an end to these additional risks. All this is very positive, but in fact things don't seem at all as simple or as effective. Indeed, it is up to me from some lawyers that it is now sufficient for the violent spouse to be in default to prevent a judicial decision which would grant the enjoyment of the spousal residence to the spouse who is the victim of violence. I am also told that the judges are quite reluctant today to force the violent spouse to change his or her residence, given the current difficulty of finding another dwelling at this time of confinement. All of this leads me to question you, Minister, as I did this morning with your colleague from the Interior. First, are there additional means available to prosecutors, who are now working in reduced service, to be able to issue decisions prohibiting residence and contact? How are the specific trainings for magistrates currently being conducted? Is the burden of proof reduced in view of the difficulty of being able to provide evidence in support of the complaint? Have there been any judicial proceedings by video-conferencing in these cases of domestic violence? How do you guarantee, as you said in the press, that this will really be considered a priority, despite the suspension of default judgments and the shutdown of the real estate market? Let me turn to my question about the situation in prisons. The context was set out by my colleagues. You have taken steps that were necessary to try to prevent this virus from entering our prisons. These measures have shown that it is quite possible to reduce prison overcrowding when you have the will, or when you are forced by the circumstances, as is the case today. This is a positive lesson, which will have to be learned later. At present, the situation is explosive. Officers and detainees lack equipment. They fear being contaminated because of promiscuity and lack of equipment. Minister, when and how will the restrictive measures be assessed? Will you take steps to alleviate them, for example by making the telephone available free of charge to inmates so that they can stay in touch with their loved ones? What protective equipment do these officers have? Can you detail them by prison, for example by explaining the type of mask concerned? Are regular screening tests planned? Did the Risk Management Group say anything about this? Can you tell us if any prison officers have been quarantined? How many were tested positive and hospitalized? Finally, do you consider that the capacity of 25 beds in the VOCID unit of the prison in Bruges, which was mobilized most recently, is sufficient? If so, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u11	Madam President, Minister, first of all – as we have seen each other for a long time – I hope that everyone is well and that the relatives of the people here are also doing well. I must confess to you, Madam President, that, despite technology, physical meetings have my favor, to the extent that they allow an exchange that proves impossible by digital means. Minister, my first question concerns discrimination against health-care personnel, whether in hospital or in other settings. The second relates to the organisation of justice. In addition to the numerous acts of recognition and solidarity of the population towards the health care staff and the front line, we also hear more and more witnesses every day of people who are victims of acts of discrimination related to the fear caused by this pandemic in some of them. Fear, and it is our duty to remind him in this chamber, can never – in any place or under any circumstances – justify the rejection of the other. However, this fear seems to justify the commission of unspeakable acts, including changes in common housing locks, verbal, written or physical attacks, acts of vandalism, and I am passing. As Unia pointed out yesterday in the press, these acts against healthcare staff or on the front line – particularly cashiers – are punishable by law. These acts are criminally reprehensible and aggravated by the existence of a ground of discrimination related to the actual or supposed health status of a person, in this case the health care staff. However, it must be noted that, with the exception of certain serious facts, the maximum penalty for such offences is often equal to or less than one year's imprisonment. It is well known, however, that these facts are not usually a priority in terms of criminal policy. This state of affairs materialized, according to the press and the account of the nurse expelled from his home, by the impossibility which was opposed to him to file a complaint, the police station having replied "to have other priorities". Mr Minister, like me, you certainly believe that this situation is unacceptable and that, in the face of what is increasingly a social phenomenon, a societal response is needed. Therefore, Minister, my questions are as follows. What slogan did you give the prosecution on this subject? Can you provide us with assurances that, despite the penalty threshold, these offences will not be classified as low priorities and that complaints will be dealt with and followed by consequences? Do you intend, if necessary and if necessary, to exercise your right of positive injunction in order to make effective the prosecution of these acts coupled with discrimination? Minister, with regard to the organisation of justice – special power orders are still under discussion – you know that it is not spared by the consequences of coronavirus. While the Chiefs of Staff provide a minimum service in order to guarantee emergency services, many hearings have been postponed, and while the procedural documents may exceptionally be sent by e-mail or e-deposit, many procedural acts are pending. Although additional guidelines for telework and permanence have been adopted and allow some cases to move forward, justice is still more than ever slowed down. Minister, what means – apart from those provided for in the special powers orders under discussion – are available to limit delays in the administration of justice? How will courts and tribunals – while some districts were already experiencing a significant delay before this crisis – be able to address the inevitable delay associated with the VOCID-19 epidemic and manage the resulting postponements of hearings? When we know that in some courts the fixing times are already recorded in years, how will we make up for the lost weeks? What plan do you have to deal with it? Will additional financial, human and technical resources be allocated to the various judicial districts to enable them to absorb the delay caused by the current slowdown? Are appointments of magistrates – long-awaited – expected in the short or medium term? Who benefits from the Cisco Webex video conferencing system? What about the introduction of a secure electronic signature system for procedural documents and judgements? Are further ICT developments needed to enable justice to function "at a distance"? In the event of an extension of the period of confinement, is there a risk of a disproportionate infringement of the right of access to a judge? Is the extension option for this period the most appropriate? Shouldn't there be an extension of force majeure and a single suspension of time limits, as the OVB would like?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u12	Minister, you have undoubtedly also read the distress call of the investigators in the press. Despite the general decline in crime reported in the newspapers, they certainly do not sit still. Some forms of crime do not suffer from the COOVID-19 syndrome. It is essential that we ensure that our investigators can continue to work in a safe manner. We also realise, of course, that everyone works in exceptional situations, which causes problems everywhere. Everyone will have to show some pragmatism, which does not mean, however, that we should leave the investigators and their clerks to their fate. The facts are distressing and may lead to major problems in the longer term. If we were faced with a massive outbreak of disease by our investigators, the files would continue to accumulate. That is why I have tabled the following questions. You are, of course, aware of this problem. Have measures been taken or are there plans in place to make the work of the investigators safer? Have there been any contacts to provide them with protective equipment? In connection with ongoing investigations, the question arises as to what happens to research actions that need to be postponed. I am thinking, for example, of things that are missed because the staff were not available to carry out phone taps. Is it necessary, in consultation with Minister De Crem, to provide a minimum capacity for this purpose? In addition, can any agreements be made with the Home Office regarding interrogation of, among other things, sick suspects? It cannot be the intention that they should automatically be transferred to the investigators, because of a legitimate fear of the police. What is your position on that? In addition, I have also put a question on the penalties contained in the letter from the College of Attorneys General on the coronavirus. As far as the issue of other infringements is concerned, the penalties for which they are concerned are not new invented penalties. Those articles are already in the Criminal Code, but they are now based on them in corona time. Is the interpretation given to it in the letter not too broad? It is true that there are already severe penalties and I think that the provisions are interpreted too widely in the letter. What are the chances that these articles will actually be invoked? Do they have a deterrent effect in particular? Are there any problems with the evidence, especially with the application of Article 454 of the Criminal Code? For example, if someone injects poison into a bottle during the week-by-week application of that article, one can be fairly sure that the perpetrator knew what he was doing. However, if someone in the supermarket sneezes near the fruit, it will be difficult to prove that that person was infected. I say this to show that the letter gives many possibilities. What is your opinion, Minister? We cannot, of course, stress enough that if someone is deliberately spitting at someone from the police and telling them that he is infected, this must be severely punished. However, is the door not too much opened to much more than that by this letter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament 55004499C by Mrs Soors will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u14	Madam President, Minister, I come back to the issue of violence against women, which has just been discussed. Of course, we know they didn't appear with the crisis we're going through. But, as all the actors on the ground assure, this violence is exacerbated with the confinement that we are living today. Every year, more than 40,000 complaints of domestic violence are filed. More than 100 complaints a day. When one knows that only one third of the facts are reported to the police, one dares not imagine the hell experienced by these thousands of women today confined to those who brutalize them, and sometimes with children as spectators. The confinement imposed today on these women in the context of this health crisis is more like forced cohabitation, without possible escape. The line "Listen to domestic violence" has seen the number of calls increasing since the beginning of confinement. It has even doubled in recent days, with many families of concerned victims. Wallonia, the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, the Brussels Region and the COCOF have taken the initiative to set up a task force to ensure that reception places are sufficient and to meet the needs of emergency removal from the home. A communication campaign, recalling the various numbers of the emergency services, was also launched. An inter-ministerial conference was held on the subject. Minister, what measures have you put on the table to help these victims of violence in practice? How can we ensure that these offences are prosecuted when the prosecutor's office is in a reduced position? Do you have any additional resources in place to enable the prosecution to deal with such cases? Are removal orders recommended? How are they considered in relation to the current containment measures? Has there recently been an increase in the number of cases opened for domestic violence? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u15	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, like my colleague Aouasti, I hope that you and your people are doing well. Let me begin by thanking those who allow us today to conduct our work, first of all the services of the House, which, since the beginning of this crisis, have never failed to do the job, with a special mention for the IT department that has succeeded in making us vote electronically. Hope it works tomorrow! In any case, the tests seem conclusive. Minister, I would also like to thank your colleagues and your administration. All these people are workers like the others. Every day we worry about the working conditions of workers in general. I would therefore like to thank in particular those who allow our work to be held. I will focus on the situation in prisons, as it is potentially explosive. The prison, a place of containment par excellence, places both detained persons and staff at high health risk. In addition to this health risk and the tension generated, the suspension of the speakers, the cessation of activities, whether remunerated or not, or the difficulties in obtaining supplies via the canteen have the effect of increasing tensions and increasing the risk of the situation being turned into a security crisis. In such a context of confinement, the prison must constitute one of the emergencies in the provision of medical equipment. To enable the application of the basic and mandatory hygiene and physical distancing rules, the first step, in our view, is to reduce overcrowding in overcrowded prisons by releasing a number of detained persons. European neighbours with whom you have had, I think, an exchange, Minister, have already made releases. Can you tell us where we are in Belgium, what has already been implemented, the number of people involved? With a view to prolonging the containment measures, and in order to reduce the pressure and ease the tensions related to the lack of contact with the outside world, it is necessary to provide more structural answers than the appreciative and salutary initiative, which you have already had, to grant at the beginning of the confinement to each inmate twenty euros of call credit. Mobilization is general. Public and private alike participate in one way or another in the crisis effort. Your own department did it through this call credit. It obviously had a cost that your department incurred. So, isn't it time for Telio to do his part and offer a per-inmate appeal credit for the time that confinement would last? Could you, minister, negotiate with them in this direction? To the extent that the FPS Justice has begun equipping prisons with equipment to allow inmates to attend their hearings by video-conferencing, could this same material not be used to maintain visual contact between inmates and their loved ones? It is my responsibility that some prisons face great difficulties in supplying food and canteens to inmates. With the crisis, large supermarket chains and one in particular are no longer able to honour contracts with establishments, forcing them to turn to more expensive suppliers. At this time of crisis, this supply problem is particularly serious. On the one hand, it overburdens prisons which are currently focusing on the management of VOCID-19; on the other hand, it penalizes prisoners who, because all the paid activities have stopped, see their income reduced and they can no longer have access to certain basic necessities such as soap. Minister, is a negotiation with large-scale distribution on the agenda to ensure that prisons are supplied with high priority and sufficient supplies? Furthermore, in view of the health emergency and in order to ensure compliance with basic health measures, can you make the necessary arrangements so that every prisoner receives a minimum hygiene kit? Finally, we all learned that several Belgian prisons were involved in the mobilization of crisis management and were involved in the manufacture of oral masks. The King himself met with prisoners to thank them. Can you tell us more about the context of this manufacture? Are these specific orders, contracts awarded by the Prison Labour Board? If so, to which customers? If so, are prisoners doing so well under the usual conditions of prison work? Are the institutions themselves, both personal and incarcerated, benefiting from this production? Thank you, Minister, for the answers that you would like to give me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u16	Madam President, Minister, many good questions have already been asked by my colleagues. With your permission, I will repeat it as little as possible, but I will add a few things to it. It is certainly important to get a look at the current figures of contagion of both prisoners and guards. In addition, I would like to mention that there was unrest in the prisons not long ago, while it is now quieter. I hear from guards that the present calm comes from the presence of material, including for the prisoners. The availability of mouth masks gives a feeling of some rest and protection. There is also disinfectant material available. Mr. Secretary, what about the stash? Can adequate stock be provided in prisons? Is some of the prisoners' own production now being used? The fact that prisoners produce mouth masks was a good message in itself. The question is whether there is sufficient stock, including with that own production, to ensure that the reassurance of the presence of that material continues to last for a sufficient period of time. A second element where I would like to come to this COOVID-19 debate in the Committee on Justice is the rule that departs from the usual rules of release. Let me give you an example. A press release on a controversial case in Brussels reported that a dozen men had been released who had committed sexual violence and sexual exploitation on a minor girl. On the basis of the reports, it is not even entirely clear to me whether this release has anything to do with the established rule, but that is not at the heart of my question either. If these men have been released under the specific rules currently in force because of corona, that actually goes quite far. I find this a difficult question myself. Minister, to what extent can the rules on release be applied? My third question is a short question about the guards. There are a lot of questions about this, but it is not the only sector or the only public service where this problem arises. Let me give you another example, because the examples can clarify the problem. The question is what should happen to guards who have entered quarantine. Especially for statutory guards, it is unclear whether or not they can find themselves in disponibility. That is a very specific question, but that question is very much alive. If you cannot answer this specific question directly, I understand that and I ask you to provide the answer in writing to the committee secretariat. Finally, Minister, I have the question of Mr Melissa Depraetere, who will come later. It is an urgent matter. She sits at home with great expectation until she can participate in the meeting online. What happens to the bailiffs and collection offices? Shouldn't specific agreements be made there, so as not to translate misery into even greater misery in times of crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u17	Madam President, Minister, many things have already been said. Let me recall the promiscuity, sometimes the lack of water in all cells and the poor health of part of the prison population, which are aggravating factors in terms of the spread of the virus in our prisons. There are also prison officers who return home after their work and are in a situation of risk. During this confinement, detainees are unoccupied, without social activity, except for a telephone call credit, except for the preau where possible. This situation, of course, generates serious tensions. You have decided to take two measures: the use of extended leave during the confinement period and early release. According to the press, 323 detainees are granted extended leave until 19 April, according to a ministerial circular of 21 March. Minister, how many prisoners are, in principle, likely to be covered by these two measures, on the basis of the criteria of the royal decrees? Have you considered wearing the electronic bracelet as an accompanying measure for the early release of VOCID-19, as some European Union countries foresee? Have you had any discussions on this subject at the European Council earlier this week? At national level, have you had discussions with the Communities on this issue? How many inmates are considered vulnerable and therefore more likely to develop serious symptoms of VOCID-19? I am thinking here of people with diabetes or other pathologies. It is the prison directors who make the decision. What workload does it represent for them when they are faced with the absenteeism of some of their staff members who are confined or on sick leave? What are the rights of the victim, knowing that the decision will be taken by the director alone? What framework is provided to guarantee the rights of the victim in the event of the perpetrator's removal, for example in the case of removal? One of the conditions for granting the measure is that the convicted person is not likely to cause health problems where he or she is on leave. This probably implies that detainees are screened before leaving the prison. Are inmates part of one of the priority groups for testing? It is known that there is a very significant increase in the number of tests planned as a result of the measures taken by the government. Are prison officers also part of the priority group for this testing? Are there adequate protective equipment, such as masks, gloves, hydro-alcoholic gels? Could you give us a statement on the matter? Could you include masks in production? Who are they intended for, and what kind of masks are they for?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u18	Question No 55004661C by Mrs Sarah Schlitz is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u19	Mr Minister, today's focus should be on the victims and their relatives, health care and the people who give the best of themselves. Also on socio-economic recovery. A colleague has just said that our democratic rule of law must also continue to function in these difficult circumstances, and I believe that there are many heroes who give the best of themselves. In this House, we are supposed to be the pulse of society and we often focus on what is not perfect. The perfection doesn't exist, especially in times of crisis. But I hear from various media that inmates spontaneously make mouth masks, that guards who can't take vacation spontaneously work overtime or replace sick colleagues. I also understand what titanic work the magistrates and clerks are doing in difficult circumstances to consider as many files as possible. Then it may be said that in times of crisis, people often come out best, including the Justice Department. I am very happy about that. Minister, in this particular health situation and quarantine conditions, the safety of everyone is important. Inciting is often more serious in these circumstances. Often this leads to intra-family violence. This often leads to aggression against aid workers or people who are responsible for our safety. That has already been mentioned. I won't repeat myself. How can these people be better protected? What measures can we take to achieve this? I believe that it is the duty of politics to guarantee the security of the people who run society, and for justice to be the staff of courts, prosecutors, prisons and other judicial institutions. How can we guarantee their safety so that they can do their job? In this respect too, I will not repeat myself, Minister, but refer to the various questions raised by my fellow Members. However, let me focus on one thing in particular. Where that security is most precarious is in prisons. There is a debate on how we can temporarily relieve the prisons, by restricting the occupation, by electronic surveillance and possibly by temporarily delaying the execution of sentences? Let's be clear, I'm in favour of temporary stool and temporary delay. There are, of course, offenders for whom generous measures are not possible even in these times of crisis. I therefore call for selectivity. My question to you, Minister, is how do you implement this selectivity?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u20	Mr President, first of all, I would like to join the previous speakers. A number of colleagues have already reported it: since the lockdown, the various actors within the Justice Department have been trying to organise themselves as effectively as possible. From the outset, measures were taken to postpone, for example, cases or to allow staff to work telework or organise cases in such a way that they do not all meet at the same time in a plenary session. In the meantime, things were organized remotely in the Justice Department. In this way, the Justice Department suddenly seems to have been catapulted 20 years ahead. Mr. Minister, in the arrondissement of Antwerp, the first video interview was organized at the Mechelen court, i.e. a remote hearing by the investigating judge in Mechelen and the Mechelen prison. Apparently, Mechelen has not only had the first rail link in Belgium, but also the first pioneering work on videoconference in correcting cases. Are there plans for other courts or prisons now that this is possible, or did this turn out to be a one-off trial? What technology was used? Can it be made available everywhere? As you know, there is the legislation on videoconferencing that we adopted in the previous legislature. Unfortunately, it was destroyed following a request from the OBFG by a judgment of the Constitutional Court. On what legal basis are we based to organise this videoconferencing? Shouldn't there be any more legal repairs? That is one aspect of my question, but there are still other issues in the area of justice. Will they now be able to make rapid progress? I am thinking in particular of the digital signature. Will this work be speeded up? This would, of course, greatly facilitate the signing of distance sentences. Questions also arise about protection material for registry staff, for example. It has already been cited in relation to the investigating judge, but it also plays a role at the Registry. The complete electronic file does not yet exist and therefore there is still a need for physical submission of documents to the Registry, which should be possible under the most safe conditions. There are a lot of things that are being postponed now. This will lead to an increasing backlog. Is there a plan to ensure that the legal backlog will not increase too much? I want to come back to the intrafamilial violence. A lot of my colleagues have already mentioned it. Not only with us, but in all countries there is a huge increase in intra-family violence. This is also evident from the help lines that are often called upon during this period of corona crisis. In normal circumstances, there is already a lot of intra-family violence. One in seven women are affected, although intra-family violence is not limited only to women. One of the useful measures that is already being used is removal. Measures have also been taken to eliminate the number of removals during this period. That makes sense, too. But we have the law on expulsion in family matters. Of course, it must still be possible to help people who live in such circumstances. I have been asked by bailiffs whether you can confirm once again that the removals can indeed continue. I also received another question from a bailiff. What about the execution of a property and the buyer? According to a certain notarial deed, he may withdraw from the home on a certain date, and the debtor is forced to leave his home by a bailiff. In this case, can the debtor whose house was seized be deported or not in those circumstances? My final question concerns the Brussels gang, which Mr Crombez had already asked. At the moment, only one person has been held in that case. It's about a big gang that's got a lot on its plate. Some say it's about 200 facts. I also hear from the press that the investigating judge would have released the gang prior to the appeal. What's the status of this gang's investigation? Is it true that the gang members have been released, and so are the pivotal figures? If so, under what conditions? What justification was given for this release and can you indicate whether or not there is a link with the corona measures? These are serious facts. It would therefore be bad if the measures were the reason why the gang members were released.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u21	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will reply a little longer than usual, but I think it is important that you are as fully informed as possible and, above all, that I do not make mistakes due to compactions and shortening of sentences which, when they are presented in a written report, could have unpleasant consequences. Let me first say that I'm glad you're all here physically. I sit in front of a screen about eight hours a day and I'm happy to see my wife at night because I can see her without a screen. Besides, I'm usually happy when I see my wife at night, but now I'm twice as happy. This brings me to the general health measures in the prison system. In the fight against coronavirus, the federal government has taken many preventive and control measures in recent weeks to protect public health as much as possible. The prison system has developed prison guidelines to ensure maximum protection for staff and detainees. From the start of the measures decided by the National Security Council, instructions were drawn up for the prisons. Those instructions shall be regularly updated and supplemented by FAQs. The latest internal version of both documents dates from 3 April 2020. The instructions now have 32 pages and the FAQs 43. Staff coming from outside must wear a mouth mask. The mouth masks aren't personal and don't leave the prison. One mouth mask shall be provided per staff member per shift. Employees receive a clean mouth mask at the start of the service and deposit the used mouth mask at the end of the service. The masks should be washed at a temperature of at least 70 degrees and up to 90 degrees. They are dried and then ironed by a prisoner who also wears a mouth mask and gloves. Every inmate entering the prison, the temperature is measured. Moreover, as from 1 April 2020, each incoming inmate will be placed in preventive isolation for a period of 14 days. After 14 days of preventive isolation, the prisoner may be involved in the ordinary regime, unless there is a counter-opinion from the prison doctor. All forms of visit to the detainees, except for the visit of lawyers and members of embassies and so on, have been suspended until at least 19 April 2020. As regards protective equipment available in prisons, in order to protect the health of all persons present in prisons, additional protective equipment (masks, gloves, soap, etc.) are provided and made available to staff. The Prison Purchasing and Logistics Service provides for the following items for all prisons: regular hand soap, to be placed on all common washbasins, hand gels with 70% alcohol, to be placed in strategic places to be determined by local management, paper handkerchiefs, to be placed in strategic places to be determined by local management, javel for cleaning floors, disposable gloves, white and unpowdered, for common use, blue disposable gloves for the treatment of food and disinfectant wipes for computer equipment. Disposable gloves are also provided for prisoners who need them to perform specific tasks, such as sorting the laundry and treating the food. The medical service provides, on the basis of the usual ordering procedure, for the following articles for all prisons: gloves with 70% alcohol for the medical staff, mouth masks for staff who need them according to instructions, disposable gloves and safety glasses for the medical staff. As far as oral masks are concerned, they are either produced in the workshops of the Prison Labour Board or purchased. Seventeen thousand and five hundred masks have been provided to the prison administration and all prisons are fully equipped. Cellmade East-West Flanders was already in the process of choking mouth masks for an external customer at the end of January. That company supplies clothes for hospitals in the tailor's shop of Oudenaarde and Bruges. As of April 6th, the company also makes aprons for hospitals for the same customer in Bruges. In view of the need for mouth masks for its own staff, it was decided on 17 March to temporarily suspend the external assignment and first to produce mouth masks for its own staff. Since the company had to produce about 15,000 masks, the sewing studios in Mons and Berkendal are also enabled. In Merksplas, Root, Beveren, Mechelen, Hasselt, Marche and Antwerp temporary workshops were opened. For those temporary workshops, Cellmade has been able to call on voluntary teachers for a limited period of time, so that the prisoners learned the stitchwork at a rapid pace. Thus, between 23 and 31 March 15,000 mouth masks could be distributed between all Belgian prisons. Any staff member and all prisoners employed in the food chain may wear a mouth mask. All incoming new detainees, especially in the detention houses, should also wear a mouth mask during the first 14 days after arrival. A further 2,500 masks have been provided for this purpose. Since 6 April we have delivered mouth masks to external organizations, in particular 6,500 to Child and Family, 1,000 to the Foreign Affairs Office, 350 to the judicial organisation and 2,000 to the FPS Finance Office. The European Parliament has also placed an order with the prison system. Inmates who make these masks will be reimbursed in accordance with the agreed remuneration. In view of the special circumstances and necessity, Oudenaarde also worked on weekends, in consultation with the workhouse manager and the prisoners employed. Oudenaarde has been allowed to rest for a while afterwards and Bruges has taken over. The temporary workshops of Merksplas, Marche, Antwerpen and Hasselt are still preserved today. In total, the prison system's numerator is today at 27,350 mouth masks. As regards the hydro-alcoholic gel, an agreement has been reached with civil protection for a delivery of 375 litres per week, which is sufficient for the time being. Then I come to the measures relating to potentially infected detainees and to the preventive measures they involve. If a prisoner is infected with the COVID-19 virus, the doctor decides whether the prisoner should be transferred to a hospital or quarantined in prison. So far, all positive-tested cases have been transferred to the medical center in Bruges or a civilian hospital. Inmates who have been in contact with an infected inmate are well monitored. This means that the temperature and symptoms are monitored regularly. As long as they show no symptoms, they do not go into medical isolation. Prisoners with symptoms of the disease are immediately isolated and must wear a mask. A doctor will run a test. If the inmate is not infected with the coronavirus, then he will remain in solitary confinement in the prison, where he will be followed daily by a doctor to assess whether the isolation measures should be lifted. FFP2 masks and gloves should be used for all contacts or interventions in the detention cell. Specific procedures were developed to deal with these prisoners and the treatment of their belongings and clothes. Today, 58 prisoners are in medical isolation, but this number varies from day to day (up and down) and is spread over all prisons. With regard to the hygiene rules in force, the cell in which an inmate has been detained must be decontaminated. In the case of a cell that can be ventilated, this must be done for at least four hours. A cell that cannot be ventilated must be blocked for three days. The cell must then be cleaned according to the instructions with a chlorine tablet dissolved in water or with 10 ml of bleach per litre of water. Regular cleaning is done in frequently used premises, preferably with a chlorine tablet dissolved in water or a dose of 10 ml of bleach per litre of water. Prisoners have the opportunity to take a shower. The showers are brushed with bleach after each use. The distribution of food is proceeding properly. People responsible for food distribution receive disposable gloves for common use and disposable gloves for food treatment. All inmates working in the food chain received a mask. Inmate compartmentalization, i.e. keeping the same stable and homogeneous groups as possible in "silos", as virology says, is the main measure of prevention against contamination. As long as the detainees walk with the same group, no safety distance should be applied during the walk. For example, in workplaces, where inmates from different compartments meet, security and distancing rules must be respected. With regard to women in detention, none of the measures taken following confinement have an impact on the hygiene of women. Access to showers is maintained, as is access to canteens allowing the purchase of parapharmacy products. On the limitation of the regime, the conditions of cohabitation and the guarantee of certain rights, at present, any service is guaranteed to the extent that it is in accordance with the measures taken against the spread of the virus VOCID-19. As a result, visits are no longer possible and all community services such as training, sport or library have been suspended. It is estimated that there is no risk of acute staff shortages at this stage. The prison administration, however, wants to reassure itself of a staggering shortage of staff. The rate of absence for illness even decreased compared to some time ago. To compensate for the lack of visit, free call credit is granted. 20 euros per month will be awarded per 10 euros every two weeks. Additional efforts can be made at local level. For example, some establishments grant an additional call credit or exempt the prisoner from paying the rent for television and so on. This depends on the possibilities of the support fund per prison. As for contact with external professionals, the transfer of detainees between prisons is limited to the strict necessary. Externals are allowed to enter only for professional reasons (e.g. lawyers, police, aid services, embassies) and exclusively for individual contacts. Telephone consultations with 0800 are an alternative to physical contacts. Outsiders can talk to inmates behind a window. As for participation in hearings, court and other court hearings with physical appearances are limited to the maximum and can be conducted using videoconferencing tools. I'll come back. Disciplinary proceedings are conducted with the lawyer's telephone participation. It is true that the restrictive measures in a number of prisons have led to tensions and small uprisings, mainly do not want to go back in after the walk. The reason for these small uprisings is the lack of visitation, uncertainty and fear of the exceptional situation. On the date of 3 April 21 incidents were counted for the previous period. Mechelen, Jamioulx and Marche-en-Famenne were three incidents. In Leuze-en-Hainaut at 4 incidents. The leaders of the uprisings were transferred to other prisons and are subject to discipline. Criminal offences shall be reported to the judicial authorities. Then I come to the fifth issue, concerning the figures for contagion of prisoners. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, a COOVID-19 infection has been detected in 9 inmates. There was one in Bergen, the person concerned was released from the hospital but is still in hospital, he was at the end of his sentence. There were 4 in Turnhout, 3 of them staying in the medical center in Bruges and 1 was transferred to intensive care in a civilian hospital. There was one in Prince, who was admitted to a civilian hospital. There were 2 in Namur, which are transferred today to the medical center of the penitentiary center in Bruges. There was one in Marneffe, which was also transferred to Bruges. There are 25 beds provided in the medical center in Bruges. That is quite sufficient at the moment. There is a proactive investigation with other public services, Defence and Public Health, which other hospitals can make agreements with. I cannot go into detail on this yet, but you can rest assured that I am trying to provide an additional capacity of 150 to 200 beds if a major epidemic were to occur in prisons. We're looking for the worst. At the moment, due to discipline, contamination is limited. The tests are carried out according to the Sciensano guidelines, i.e. when the detainee has fever and has respiratory problems or on the basis of a medical opinion, as well as in civil society. The Prison Service follows the Government's recommendations regarding community institutions. Prisoners and prison staff are not part of one of the priority groups. With regard to the number of prisoners in the vulnerable group, the crude estimates do not predict anything, because there are criteria for exclusion. In addition, this exercise is still ongoing. The available figures already provided are based on a medical diagnosis. With regard to sick staff, 1,369 security and technical staff were on sick leave, or 21 per cent, yesterday. This is a constant decrease in the number of sick employees. The number of prison staff, guards and administrative staff who have contracted the new coronavirus is now 41, of which 6 are already cured and have returned to work. For the most part, they were employees who had been quarantined at home for some time because they had symptoms of coronavirus. So they've been away from work since at least last week. A contaminated worker is covered by the procedure for declaration of illness and is therefore covered by the legislation on absenteeism for illness. In the margin I mention two more local problems. In the prison of Oudenaarde, the catalogue of the library of the city cannot be consulted at this time because of a change from the city of Oudenaarde to a new system. A new firewall is needed there. Inmates can take books and DVDs from the prison library. At Leuze prison, the preparation of meals for prisoners is handled by a private firm. The situation is quite normal at this level. The Carrefour canteen – a specific canteen distributed on Thursday – was not distributed on Thursday, March 19 for the simple reason that the shop in Leuze was robbed by the citizens. On March 26, some products were out of stock for the same reason. Carrefour has made every effort to regularize the situation as quickly as possible. All other canteens are normally distributed. With regard to the evaluation of measures, daily monitoring of government and legal directives is in place. If necessary, the measures may be adapted. My department is still looking for balanced measures to protect the health of staff and detainees. The situation is assessed and monitored on a daily basis. Under federal directives, these measures may be subject to adaptations and apply provisionally. Finally, on a very important point, we are all faced with an exceptional situation. The prison world is no exception. I am very grateful to the staff for their commitment and to the inmates who remain calm. The management of the prison staff can be congratulated on the excellent way in which it is trying to manage this difficult problem. I come to the measures relating to the enforcement and execution of prison sentences and other penalties through certain modalities. In the interests of guaranteeing the basic rights of the detainees and keeping the health and safety conditions in prisons manageable for the benefit of staff and prisoners, we have taken a number of measures at penitentiary level. These measures have already been taken or are the subject of a power of attorney decision which will enter into force very soon. I would just like to say that I hope to be able to comment on four published power of attorney decisions at the next meeting of the power of attorney committee. Firstly, there are the four measures in the penitentiary section. I have asked the College of Attorneys General to consider whether it is appropriate to issue instructions to temporarily refrain from executing certain non-urgent convictions to prison and to postpone the execution of the sentence until a later date. By letter of 26 March 2020/7, the College expressly considered this request to be justified. The College recognizes the need for temporary stool from prisons and the Communities. Indeed, the justice houses responsible for the connection to the monitoring of electronic surveillance are also under severe pressure. Strict exclusion criteria have been used for, among other things, the type of crime. For example, heavy violence, intra-family violence, sex crimes and terrorist offences are excluded. Punishment is also taken into account. Judgments up to more than five years are excluded. The risks and the risk of recidivism are also examined. Even those convicted who had already been detained in the context of the detention or immediate arrest and who are arrested after a signal to imprisonment have been excluded. In fact, the danger to public security, to repeat or to withdraw has been established in law and de facto. In other words, certain non-risk convicts who were already free and convicted will be locked up or placed under electronic supervision a little later. In addition, each specific case au cas par cas is examined by the public prosecutor. With regard to extended leave, which is more precise and modified in the draft royal decree, it is called the interruption of the execution of the sentence following the coronavirus pandemic. The cessation of the execution of the sentence following the coronavirus pandemic aims to reduce the concentration of the prison population by allowing eligible convicts to interrupt the execution of the sentence on the basis of specified criteria. This interruption may be granted by the director of the prison to convicted prisoners who have already properly served ordinary prison leave. Convicted persons who are in the at-risk group of vulnerable persons who may develop serious symptoms in the event of VOCID-19 contamination may also benefit from an interruption in the execution of the sentence. For this category, the measure aims to enable people vulnerable to the development of the virus to leave prison in order to be accommodated during the specified period in their personal environment and to have easier access to specialized care should symptoms arise. In this way, we also reduce, as much as possible, the organizational inconvenience that an inmate's admission causes in hospitals. The days on which the convicted person is suspended shall not be counted as days of detention and shall be served thereafter. So this is not a real prison leave. The files are carefully reviewed in advance. This measure does not apply to the following categories of persons: persons convicted of terrorism and crimes of morals, persons sentenced to more than 10 years' imprisonment, convicted persons who have no or more fixed domicile and convicted persons who may cause a health problem to the persons at whom they would spend their leave. In the event of non-compliance, this measure shall be immediately withdrawn and the inmate shall be re-incarcerated. The arrest by the Public Prosecutor's Office is planned. As of 7 April 2020, 389 people benefited from this new modality. As a reminder, the population is 10,000 prisoners. It's pretty positive because our capacity is only 9,400 prisoners and we come from 10,800 prisoners. The third measure aimed at reducing the prison population is as follows. Provision is made for a provisional release of the convicted person from six months before the end of the enforceable part of the custodial sentence(s) to which he/she was sentenced. The decision will be made by the prison director. It is important to know that, for this measure, the period of validity is limited to the period determined by royal decree, on the one hand, and that, on the other hand, this form of release with the same condition of time, that is, six months before the end of the sentence, is already generally provided for in the Law on External Status (art. 20/1) for foreign convicts without the right of residence in the context of their imminent removal. This measure does not apply to the categories of convicted persons as provided for above for the interruption of the sentence, i.e. crimes of morality, acts of terrorism, sentences of more than 10 years, etc. In the event of non-compliance, this measure shall be immediately withdrawn and the inmate shall be re-incarcerated. Arrest by the Public Prosecutor's Office is also planned. The measure provided for in the draft Royal Decree has not yet entered into force. As a result, the figures are not yet available. The estimate is about 150. We hope that this measure will come into force next week. So I come to the suspension of certain implementing rules. These include the temporary suspension of leave, prison leave and limited detention. This decision was taken in order to stem the spread of coronavirus by the frequent movements of entry and exit caused by these modalities. Release and prison leave are generally granted to inmates to attend rehabilitation services. Most of these services are currently closed due to government-imposed measures. For limited detention, it should be added that most of these persons have already been given prison leave and are therefore included in the measure of the interruption of the sentence described above. For your information, I would like to clarify the following. The measures are also proposed by independent national and international bodies dealing with human rights, in particular those who have been deprived of their freedom. I refer, inter alia, to the Declaration of Principles on the treatment of persons deprived of their liberty in the context of the Corona Virus Pandemic, issued by the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture within the Council of Europe on 20 March 2020. The Central Prison Supervisory Board, which has been established in the Chamber of Representatives since the law of 25 December 2016, also made a public appeal on 30 March 2020. I note that the other European countries are on the same page. Moreover, the European Council of the European Union wrote to the Member States a few days ago to inform them of the measures taken. Today there are 9,870 prisoners in Belgian prisons. That's about a thousand less than a month ago. I expect a further reduction in the next few days by several hundred prisoners, especially when the measure of early release of convicted persons going to the end of their sentence will have its effect. As I said earlier, we have a capacity of 9.279 cell sites. The 250 extra places that are added in Saint Gillis due to the expansion of the cells are not included in that number. With regard to electronic surveillance and ankle bracelets, I would like to inform you that today 445 suspects are being detained under electronic supervision and 1,414 convicted persons are being punished with an ankle bracelet. In Flanders in particular, there is an increase in electronic surveillance in pre-trial detention, in particular about 80 more files. The other surveillances are stationing. Let me now turn to the questions put by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and Mr Aouasti on a number of practical problems relating to the administration of criminal law. Of course, I cannot intervene directly in the organisation of the court. It belongs to the jurisdiction of the court. As soon as the government has announced measures on social discrimination, I have urged the College of Courts and Courts to adopt appropriate and uniform measures in the courts to ensure security. On a weekend, 49 different courts and courts, each with their own customs, had to reorganise their sessions scheduled for Monday, March 16, 2020. That wasn't easy. At that time, I called for more uniformity at the College of Courts and Courts. On 18 March 2020, the College subsequently issued a mandatory directive to all management committees of the courts and courts. The different jurisdictions are now dealing with this correctly. The necessary decisions shall also be taken to ensure that proceedings continue where possible, inter alia by electronic or written procedure, and by suspending time-limits in proceedings where necessary. In this way, the Justice Department can continue to operate under the most secure conditions. It is therefore important to find legal and technical solutions that enable justice to function as far as possible within the exceptional framework we know. These measures have a temporary period of validity for each rule and may be extended if necessary. The first decrees of special powers will be published as soon as possible: at the end of the week, I hope. With regard to criminal law orders, the time limits will not be extended. For those relating to civil courts, on the other hand, this will be the case. The measures to prevent the spread of the COVID-19 virus will minimise the transfer of prisoners to the courthouses and their lawyer will act as their representative. The test in Mechelen has been evaluated positively. The comments were taken into account. The roll-out has started across the country. The videoconferencing tool has been rolled out by a central push to all the judges who can use it. Tests have also been carried out in civil courts to enable videoconferencing to be used in the event of the entry into force of the proxy decision on civil proceedings. The technology used, Cisco Webex Meeting, which is widely available within Justice, is usable on any device, smartphone, tablet or PC, without any specific software. By the way, the government and the nuclear cabinet also use it; so it is a very good application. In this way, meetings can be organised with persons inside or outside the organisation on any device or browser. The advantage is that participants do not have to install the application themselves in order to be able to participate in the meeting. Participants can simply step into the application, which is particularly useful for less useful people, such as myself. As a result of the destruction of your law by the Constitutional Court, there is no legal basis for a hearing per videoconference in the chamber of accusation (KI) and/or the council chamber. There has never been a legal basis for criminal proceedings on the ground. So today the defendants are represented at the hearing by their lawyer. Justice offers that the lawyer may contact the client through videoconference during the hearing. The lawyer may speak to his client in private or also allow the court to follow the conversation with his client. That choice is up to the lawyer and his client. The advantage is that the defendants can also follow the hearing themselves and have the opportunity to indirectly, through the lawyer, express their message, as if they were present at the hearing themselves. The pilot project in the peace courts of Nivelles and Tienen on the digital signature and transmission of judgments was completed just before the Corona outbreak. The planned roll-out has been stopped at the request of the users in the sites to be rolled out in the first days of the social-distanting measures. This is regrettable because the application allowed judges and clerks from a distance, for example from home, to sign and thus to respect social discrimination better. As soon as possible we will restart the roll-out. The many efforts of our ICT service in recent years allow us to roll out many projects in the short term thanks to its exceptional commitment, such as the broadening of consultation online from in prison, the criminal record and the electronic transmission of copies of files through the JustSendIt project. Justice continues to guarantee its service, but with respect for the safety of staff and visitors. This means that the buildings and the Registrys remain accessible, but that access is limited to what is strictly necessary, for example for those called for a hearing, to obtain or surrender a driving licence, to file an appeal or to make a provision in criminal proceedings. In this way, social distancing can be respected. Internally, the occupation in the Registry was limited in order to maintain sufficient distance between the staff present. Almost all the files in our courts are electronic files containing the data of the file and some or all documents. However, not all documents are digitized. This in no way prevents the digital submission of documents or documents. On the contrary, the more digitally deposited, the less there is to be scanned at the Registrys and parquet secretariats, and the more hybrid files, which partly exist electronically and partly on paper, should become digital files. Because everyone is beginning to discover the benefits of digitalisation, we see a significant increase in digital deposits, although the number of active files is decreasing. At present, the exact impact of the crisis is not known, but as everywhere in society, it will not be small. There may need to be a vast array of different measures to help courts and tribunals address both the backlog and possible new procedures. Approximately 60 procedures for the appointment of magistrates are under way. The Supreme Council of Justice is now continuing its procedures for the presentation of judges. A Royal Decree of Special Powers is being prepared to allow the Supreme Council of Justice to also hear candidates by video conference. New publications of vacant posts are being prepared, in consultation with the relevant colleges, for publication as soon as possible. After the Easter holidays, a new plan of vacant places will be prepared with the judicial colleges. This brings me to a number of various questions about criminal law. The first is about the criminal qualification of spitting. That qualification is laid down in the circular 2020/6 of 25 March 2020 of the College of Attorneys General on the judicial enforcement of urgent measures to limit the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus. Police and justice are strict with regard to persons who consciously cough, sneez or spit at policemen or other citizens. Several persons have already been placed under arrest for this purpose. There are several criminal qualifications possible and the COL specifically deters Article 328a of the Criminal Code from spreading substances that give the impression of being dangerous for the purpose of creating feelings of fear................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Of course, there may also be other additional behaviours, circumstances and constituent elements of a crime, which may lead to different qualifications. For example, if the spitting is accompanied by beatings and injuries, there may be inflicting beatings and injuries, if necessary even resulting in disability or death. It is in the final instance and always the criminal court who judges the qualification of the evidence and the presence of all the constructive elements of the crime. For the attempt to poison you mention, the judge will then have to judge whether there are sufficient elements to show that there are substances that can cause death or substances that, although they are not of a nature to cause death, can seriously damage health. This probably presupposes that the spitters know that they are infected and/or contagious. With regard to discrimination against health-care workers, Mr Aouasti, the College of Attorneys General informed me that at this stage no such facts had been brought to his attention. Nevertheless, the College wishes to emphasize that the fight against discrimination remains a priority in the police and prosecutorial services, which have organized themselves to deal with all situations that require an immediate response. Complaints relating to this type of act must be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of COL 13/2013, and the penalty threshold does not determine the priority at all. Moreover, in its Circular 2020/6, the College of PG clearly affirmed its willingness to make every effort to assist the Public Prosecutor's Office and the police in the fight against the spread of coronavirus beyond the mere observance of the ministerial decree of 20 March 2020. There is no reason to doubt this: police officers and magistrates would pay particular attention to the situation of caregivers or other workers providing essential services to the population who would be victims of offences related to the particular context we know. At this stage, it has not yet been considered necessary to give precise guidelines as the Public Prosecutor's Office has no evidence of the emergence of such a phenomenon. Where appropriate, the College shall be vigilant and shall remain available if such communication is deemed necessary. The aggravating circumstance of health-related discrimination may also be used in conjunction with one of the predicate offences limited by law. Mrs Gabriels, as far as the penalties in the letter of the prosecutors general and the gel and the masks for investigators are concerned, criminal law applies, of course, erga omnes and the prosecution has a duty to apply and enforce criminal law through criminal proceedings. However, it is always up to the individual parquet hall to make a specific assessment, both in the area of criminal classification and in the area of opportunity to prosecute or other proceedings. The March 2020 circular, COL6/2020 of the College of Attorneys General is intended to assist the magistrates in the application of the law and, in my view, is more nuanced than you might suggest. In terms of objective, the College states in the introductory phrase: "The criminal response to all infringements resulting from the non-compliance with the Ministerial Decision of 24 March 2020 should not only contribute to the strict application of all measures taken to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus, but should also complement the pedagogical and administrative police approach, which were set out for the same purpose. Effective coordination of this action is also essential, and this requires close and regular contacts with police and administrative authorities." In addition, the circular also states that "the criminal response is based on the principle of the gradual approach, but should nevertheless apply uniformly throughout the territory of the country, in such a way as to avoid the feeling of being treated unjustly, by the fact that the restriction would vary from one district to another." As Minister of Justice, I can only endorse this objective and cannot comment on its practical application to individual cases, nor can I predict to what extent it will lead to effective prosecution on the basis of certain articles of the Criminal Code. However, criminal law is used in a complementary and supportive way, in addition to the possibilities of administrative enforcement and sanctioning. I refer in particular to the Royal Decree on municipal administrative sanctions, which was published yesterday and which allows municipalities to provide for administrative sanctions. Finally, it remains up to the criminal court to assess the substance of the crime and to pronounce the appropriate penalty. Yesterday 350 oral masks and 50 litres of alcohol gel were delivered as a priority through the intervention of my cabinet and the prison system. A subsequent delivery will follow in a few days. Since the amendment of the law of 25 December 2016, Mr Van Hecke, the Central Supervisory Board for the prison system has been the responsibility of the Chamber of Representatives. The board and the supervisory committees operate in their functions and duties completely independently of my department, including, of course, the decisions they take, such as the suspension of their work. As Minister of Justice, I can no longer hold them accountable. The penitentiary administration has assured me that it will nevertheless, in these times of crisis, fully cooperate in the tasks and questions which the board or committees would give it or ask it. As regards the release of the members of the Fioul Gang, I have read in the media that certain members of that gang would indeed have been released by the investigating judge. It's his autonomous and independent decision in an ongoing investigation. The information, justifications and conditions requested by you are part of the secret of criminal investigation and may not be disclosed by the executive. During this period, investigators continue to base their decisions on the strict legal criteria of the law on pre-trial detention, which have not been amended by any measure. I apologise for being so boring, but I assume you will tolerate mine for once, if I am not all the other times, which of course is not the case. After all, you're all still awake here. As regards the fight against intra-family violence, violence against women, children and vulnerable persons and the non-release of children in the case of guards alternées, this remains a priority in criminal policy during the corona crisis. The circular COL 4/2006, revised on 12 October 2015, concerning the partner violence and the circular COL 18/2012 relating to the restraining of the home of the College of Attorneys General, shall continue to apply in full. The Attorney General has expressly called on the King's Attorney and the reference magistrates to give greater priority to such acts, taking into account the exceptional situation and the containment measures. Where necessary, house bans are imposed and investigators are requested for the purpose of an arrest mandate or the imposition of restrictions on freedom of movement. In this regard, I can assure you that the judiciary, both at the prosecutor's office and at the headquarters, does not work in any way in a reduced or reduced capacity with regard to the repression, detection, prosecution and trial of this type of offence. They shall ensure the continuity of the civil or criminal treatment of such cases. Of course, they respect the principles and requirements of criminal law and criminal procedure as described in our domestic law and in international human rights conventions. Therefore, this also applies to the burden of proof as an important element of the rights of the defence and the right to a fair trial. At the preparatory meeting for the Interdepartmental Conference of 2 April 2020 between the offices of federal ministers and ministers of the federal entities concerned, Ms Matz, the following steps were taken in this regard. In the preventive field, help lines and chat lines are strengthened and monitored regularly in order to adapt supply rapidly to demand if necessary. The Centres for General Welfare continue to be active with their offer to victims of family violence, both by telephone and via chat and email. The ongoing guidance is continued through the same channel to offer maximum assistance, guidance, support and proximity. Information on available help can also be found on the website www.we-access.eu. There are guides in 22 foreign languages with www.luisterendeoren.be. Measures have also been taken to protect and support victims. The three sexual violence centres remain open 24 hours a day and also offer a hotline. On the basis of regular monitoring, emergency shelters available, alternative emergency accommodation solutions are sought for victims with or without children by providing the necessary psychosocial support. With regard to complaints, prosecutions and trials, I have just confirmed the priority approach. A new meeting is scheduled for 17 April. It's Friday next week, if I'm not mistaken. Specifically as regards the reorganization of the public prosecutor's offices and the alternate guards... that was Mrs Schlitz's question. Isn't she here? Will you be happy to hear the answer to his question?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u22	It can be put on the report that we would be happy to hear the answer, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u23	All right. For once. The coordinator of the network of expertise of the Public Prosecutor's Office "criminality against persons" confirms to me that in each district, the task force organizes itself in good agreement with the Public Prosecutor's Office in order to deal during this crisis with all urgent requests and cases for which the parties wish to resort to the written procedure, and in order to enable the latter to give an opinion when he deems it appropriate. In addition to this civil treatment of the problem, the Public Prosecutor's Office also has criminal and protective approaches where the situation so warrants. In this regard, as has already been reported, prosecutors and police agencies are organizing themselves to continue to deal with all situations that require an immediate response. During this period, prosecutors are also not understaffed, nor are they able to render their written opinions in a civil context or to initiate criminal proceedings. Moreover, the Public Prosecutor's Office has already reported that even in this crisis of coronavirus, the fight against domestic violence is and remains a priority. The relevant directives continue to apply. In accordance with the above-mentioned COL 4/2006 on violence between partners, the offence of non-presentation of children, article 432 of the Code of Criminal Investigation, is also considered to be a form of domestic violence. This constitutes a violation of the child's right to have a personal relationship with one of his or her parents. Consequently, the prosecutor may decide, depending on the specific situation, to also take criminal action. Even in times of crisis of coronavirus, this is still in effect and may even be a priority, given the child's vulnerability and need for affection. The Institute of Judicial Training temporarily suspended, for obvious reasons, the training of magistrates and judicial staff until 19 April 2020 and takes measures to offer a number of e-learnings. With regard to data on the number of places of refuge for the victims and the mentoring, I should like to refer you to the relevant ministers of our Länder. Let me now turn to the question of Mr Van Hecke's corona virus, which relates to gambling addiction. The Gaming Commission monitors the number of website visitors per day. This monitoring shows, as expected, a reduction of 38% on the average number of visits compared to before the closing of the gaming devices. That's because of the loss of bets at sporting events. Four staff were deployed to carry out online checks. In the last three weeks, checks were carried out on 16 licence holders. The checks focused in particular on the playing limits and compliance with the legal provisions on bonuses and advertising. In addition, illegal websites are actively searched. Where appropriate, a report shall be made and the website shall be added to the blacklist. On Tuesday 31 March 2020, Belgian and European gambling associations called on operators to keep online gambling safe and responsible during this isolation period. In this context, they have drawn up six directives on responsible advertising. Among other things, the association states that no reference will be made to the virus or that gambling should not be promoted as a means of prevention of boredom. In addition, the Gaming Commission reports on the risks of excessive gambling in response to the corona crisis on its website and social media. During its checks, the Committee will check whether information on assistance is available on the gambling websites. At present it is not possible, in accordance with the regulations, to increase the playing limits to more than 500 euros per week. The Committee raises awareness of deposit limits on its website and social media and asks players to report any suspicion of infringement. At the next meeting of the Gaming Commission, an informative note will be published in which recommendations will be made on the content of pop-ups and other notifications. As you know, a former chairman of the Supreme Court of Justice has also taken up office as chairman of the Gaming Commission. I didn't have to catch a train, Madam President, because that's what you might think. I'm supposed to be at a meeting by 5:00. I forgot something. In that sense, I have read more quickly than Mrs De Wit certainly wishes, but I will make it up to her. I must also answer a question from Mr Segers. I lost it in all my zeal, but Mr Segers is not present? Mr Crombez did indeed ask that question. Maybe you can replicate in advance. Then I'll find the missing answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u24	Minister, obviously you have already made an effort, like everyone else, in this fight against coronavirus, be it you, your office, prison staff, etc. It must be acknowledged that you are delighted that you have reached the threshold of 10,000 inmates, and I congratulate you on that, because it is a considerable effort. But I'm pretty surprised. This is an objective that you have set yourself as Minister of Justice in normal times. Let's look at the positive side of things. At least the VOCID allowed you to deengage a little bit in the prisons. You have in any case achieved the objective you had set yourself since the start, but in normal time. And we're not in normal time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u25	At one point, I had 10,003 inmates, but of course, this is the continuation of a policy. This parole and parole policy is quite liberal and that's what makes the difference. It will be up to the next government to decide what kind of policy it wants to install. As you know, Mrs Özen, half of Parliament wants more prisons, while the other half does not want more prisons at all. I'm trying to adopt a middle ground. That's right, now I'm silent, I've at least reached that number at some point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u26	I can hear you, Minister. In any case, I would like to congratulate you on having achieved your objective in normal time. But we are not in normal times and therefore, which says exceptional and unprecedented situation, says urgent exceptional measures. I can only encourage you along this path, like many associations, the UN Commissioner for Human Rights, the League of Human Rights, the International Prison Observatory, who are asking you to relieve our prisons so that the coronavirus does not wreak havoc. Some inmates who are at the end of their sentence, within a month or two of their release, may be able to complete their detention in confinement at home. I am surprised to hear you say that this is an interruption of the execution of the detention. Therefore, prisoners who are going to benefit from a break and return home today, will have to, at the end of the confinement if they have a month remaining in detention, return to prison to complete their sentence. I think this is a completely absurd situation. I say this for sentencing purposes, but for those who are six months from the end of their detention, we could also consider turning it into a work of general interest. You also mentioned vulnerable prisoners, such as pregnant women, the elderly or those suffering from chronic diseases, who could benefit from these measures. I'm talking about inmates who wouldn't represent a danger. It will of course exclude perpetrators of terrorist offences, sex offenders and perpetrators of domestic violence. Minister, you explained that a case-by-case work had been undertaken by the prison directors. In any case, these measures should be strengthened and prison overcrowding reduced to avoid the worst. You have seen the catastrophic situation in Italy and France, where deaths are deplored. Contaminated agents have died. The French Seal Guard has taken steps to release up to 6,000 prisoners. Minister, you now hold special powers. By giving them to you, we trusted you. Today, we must not forget the prison staff who are already suffering, nor the detainees. These measures should not be taken solely in their interest, as this is primarily a matter of public health. Behind it are families and staff, but it is the general interest that prevails. Prison must not become the epicentre of the pandemic. For everyone, this is a question of solidarity with the prison staff that we absolutely must support. [[...]] Look, the situation is serious enough! It doesn't come at thirty seconds. Minister, we're going to have to get this out of the crisis. I therefore ask you to uphold the human and solidarity dimension so as not to overload prison staff and overcrowded hospitals. In short, it is a question of humanity to treat these people with dignity, to organize confinement and to enable prison officers to carry out their work in decent conditions by providing them with basic protective equipment to prevent the virus from circulating in prison.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u27	I agree with what has been said about prison congestion. With regard to protection and prevention in prisons, the situation was unsatisfactory. We receive a lot of testimonies and calls from prison guards who deplore the situation because they are not protected. I told you about organizing screenings, you didn't answer clearly. There is an urgent need for massive screening for prison staff and detainees, in order to isolate sick people and avoid the spread of the virus. If this virus spreads in prisons, it would be a disaster for the country. Preventing this situation is a priority. We must support these workers who take risks every day. We must give them every means to ensure that they can carry out their work in a safe manner. With regard to the staff needed to ensure that things were done properly in institutions, you said that the number of sick staff had decreased and was currently 20%. This morning I received a testimony from a guard at Saint-Gilles prison, stating that on the display of staff available for this prison there were 56 sick out of 174 prison guards, i.e. a rate of 30 per cent. We need a comprehensive vision, but we also need to look at the prison situation by prison. The prison in Saint-Gilles is overcrowded, as has been repeated many times. And 30% of his staff is sick! The protection of our prison officers and detainees is an emergency, a priority to avoid a disaster in our country. All prison staff must be tested and all protective equipment must be available as soon as possible. A clear investment must be made to protect these workers who take risks every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u28	Minister, your answer was very comprehensive and I will not be able to respond to everything. The part about the GAS and the part about the minors remains a mystery to me, by the way. I was somewhat uncomfortable with the reply about the overpopulation and the measures we have just heard in prisons. With regard to the staff, the detainees and the current situation, I do understand the measures you have taken. From a human point of view, I fully understand that. That overpopulation is effectively a problem but actually the solution was to create more capacity. That has always been our position. In this case, these measures were not necessary. It remains a fact that a judge has ever taken the decision to impose a penalty when we find that it is not being implemented as such today. I can only hope that this will not result in accidents for the safety of society. The justice system must continue to monitor this, either Corona or not. With all due understanding of the human aspects within the prison walls, these concerns remain. We are here today on the Justice Commission where we focus on the problems of staff and prisoners in prisons. However, I know of other places in our society where we cannot go outside today and cannot maintain contact with our family members, sometimes in much more serious and even terminal circumstances. That makes me feel so uncomfortable in this discussion. On the one hand, I understand it very well, but on the other hand, there are other places where people cannot be given that provisional freedom or that contact. We have to make sure that we keep the balance, especially when I have just heard that reply. After all, there are more people who would like to see their family and they have not committed a crime. Anyway, I understand these measures. For me, Minister, justice is an essential sector which must continue to fulfil its role. If we expect the police to continue working on the ground, I would ask that the other actors in the justice system continue to be responsible for handling the matter. Otherwise, enforcement will become an empty box. A number of instruments have been introduced and this weekend you have drawn up a KB on the GAS regulation. It will be quite a challenge for local authorities to get that implemented in time. We have to work through the city council to do this. As has been said, for minors only the admonishing finger remains an option. Let us hope that it will only take a few days before we can offer this opportunity to our police forces, because they are screaming for it. This may be a question for your colleague, Minister De Crem, but you have written the royal decree. Hence the question to you. It is a pity that we have to wait so long and that it still requires some organisation to get it implemented in time. With all the practical difficulties, Minister. That is just one example from practice. I can give you many. If the collections are sent immediately to the municipality, as stated in your royal decree, and the police area enforces for different municipalities, the police officer who maintains them must step out with different account numbers. For example, there is a whole series of silly practical problems which we are now faced with in order to maintain the prohibition of cooperation. Fortunately, many inhabitants respect it correctly, but unfortunately there are some who do not, and then there is a need to intervene. In short, there are still some challenges ahead of us. I hope that all of us together will be able to solve this ensemble, because that will be necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u29	It is the clash between penitentiary politics and humanitarian considerations that I wanted to express, Mrs De Wit. I understand your annoyance about my reply in that perspective. I didn't mean any harm. As far as the gas fines are concerned, the ten party chairmen have agreed on this. I will talk about this next week. But as far as minors are concerned, there is a whole chapter in the 2013 GAS law devoted to minors between 14 and 18 years of age. However, I could not make it applicable in speed. I did promise that if it takes a long time, we'll do everything we can to do that. That will also be my answer next week. We are thinking about that. But it really couldn't be right now. Of course, a criminal minor remains what he has always been.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u30	Fortunately, we can still give a VIP treatment. Very Irritating Police, that helps, too. But in the end, the problem only moves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u31	Madam President, Minister, on that last point of discussion, the Gas, I do not think that all the party chairmen agreed on Saturday, some did and some did not. We are going to have that debate, but I think it is a totally useless decision, because the resources available to the police are also working perfectly. I hear that many police zones are absolutely not asking parties and would prefer to go further in the way they do it today, through the civil security law, with a police report and the court that decides, that works well. Minister, I would like to thank you for the answers. You have given a very detailed answer on the problems in prisons. The administration has indeed done a huge job in recent weeks to address the situation properly. Of course, she was also confronted with the problems that everyone is experiencing, namely a lack of material, which will eventually come. It is important to show the discipline to ensure that this infection cannot enter the prisons and that when she is inside, she can't usurp. That will require a great deal of discipline from everyone. I hope we can keep that under control. If it breaks heavily into prisons, it is indeed dramatic. We must therefore make every effort to do so and to ensure that all material is present. With regard to the Supervisory Committees, I understand your answer perfectly. It has become a parliamentary body. That is why I asked whether the administration would be willing to take part in the search for solutions. You replied positively. We will have to look another way at whether the Supervisory Committees can continue their work, with some creativity we must be able to do it perfectly. Finally, in relation to games of chance, I have also seen those figures on the decline. This would be due to the fact that there are no more sports competitions. The question is whether there will be no more use for games of chance than the sports competitions. Apparently, you don't have those numbers. I shall put a separate question on that. After all, we must be careful not to shift it to other elements. The control of the EUR 500 limit is also extremely important. After all, that limit could be exceeded prefectly before the corona crisis. Control of this is now essential in order to avoid financial dramas during this period, but also afterwards. We are going to be able to learn lessons from things afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u32	Mr Minister, I thank you for your extremely comprehensive briefing, particularly on the prisons that many of my colleagues are concerned about. At the beginning of the crisis, some tensions were observed. But today, thanks to the measures that have been taken, it can be seen that staff are more receptive to the measures of respect that you are trying to impose in environments that are not really easy. However, this does not prevent us from hoping for a much more massive screening. I told you I wouldn't be surprised if I asked you about domestic violence. I will probably not surprise you either by telling you that the measures taken do not seem to me to be up to the urgency of domestic violence, in general, but even more so in times of confinement. I would point out that this is not a personal attack at all. I note that no specific measures are applied. In our French and Spanish neighbours, specific measures have been taken for the period of confinement because it is known that potential victims have a great deal of difficulty in contacting the services, even if they remain open. I would also like to highlight here the tremendous work of these services in continuing to respond to calls. I welcome the work of the voluntary sector as well as the three centres you mentioned. It is not this work that is called into question, but it must be noted that it is not always possible to reach these services. Measures have been taken, for example, for pharmacists. Minister, why not take it with your colleague from the Interior, Mr. De Crem, a measure to require police zones to call all the victims who have appeared in the past three months? You have taken numerous circulars to respond to emergencies. Today, this is the case for these victims. That would be a good way to calm things down. This would also help to detect situations that are currently hidden, as these victims do not have the means to be heard. I therefore ask you to review the measures that have been adopted with regard to domestic violence, to work urgently to take a strong measure to protect the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u33	Mr Minister, I thank you for the very detailed answers you have given us, even though I remain cruelly hungry on the issue of domestic violence. Indeed, I have learned nothing more than what was contained in the press release issued at the end of the Interministerial Conference: the fight against violence remains a priority of our prosecutors' offices and the College of Attorneys General, and the ban on residence remains an applicable measure. On this last aspect, what I have to say is that, on the contrary, judges are very reluctant to make such judicial decisions because of confinement. Nor did I hear you on the issue of the burden of proof of the victim. You say that respect for the rights of the defence must be ensured, but at the same time we must also ensure that the victim, through his confinement, does not have the opportunity to support his testimony except by the testimony of his own children. This is an impossible situation to bring to justice. I believe that a balance must be guaranteed. As far as prisons are concerned, your answers have been very detailed and I agree with what my colleagues have said. We have been able to reduce the prison population quite significantly (10%), while ensuring the safety of our fellow citizens outside the prison and the safety of prison officers inside the prison. We must therefore now be able to draw lessons, particularly in the context of the discussions that we will have, I hope, as soon as possible, on the draft reform of the Penal Code. I come to the much more pragmatic aspects. With regard to the masks, you say that they were distributed to the entire prison administration and that all the prisons were equipped. It is my responsibility, however, that the equipment has not been adequately distributed in all prisons. This information should still be checked. As far as cell cleaning is concerned, I understand that this cleaning would sometimes take several hours, when the prisoners' ability to leave their cells is limited to one hour and eventually to go to the meadow. Something's missing from me. You explain that the rate of absence of agents has decreased compared to a so-called normal period. However, this rate was 28 per cent as of March 30, which is still quite huge. You also explain that inmates are not among the priority groups for testing. This is probably a decision of the Risk Management Group. However, this is in contravention of an insistent demand from associations and NGOs, such as Amnesty International, who urge you to recognize detainees as groups at greater risk of infection with coronavirus. With regard to the €20 appeal credit granted to detainees, you are going back to this decision. I take it that you are not in favour of this possibility of free calls when it is a request made on 30 March by the Central Prison Supervision Board, which asks to make arrangements for the detention regime to respond to the crisis with free telephone access. The same Central Council also requested reasonable compensation for detainees who were deprived of their work and called for adequate access to hygiene products and the supply of canteens, as well as for finding alternatives to the activities that had been abolished. I did not hear you about this, but my questions did not relate to this aspect, since I then became aware of this request. I hope you will be able to deal with these requests as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u34	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed explanation. These are exceptional times for everyone, including for the Justice Department. It is not easy for any sector to make this change in the short term, not even for our courts, courts and courts. We can only be thankful that people are seven days out of seven busy organizing themselves anyway. As you also said, I hope that common sense prevails in the application of the various laws that have been issued specifically for the corona crisis. I insist on the need for strict action against spitting or threats to police personnel. It is perhaps also hopeful that this time of crisis will bring benefits not only for politicians but also for Justice for further digitisation. The mindset may change a bit, so digitisation will be faster if the various actors are involved. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all those who are currently working hard within the security chain and within Justice to ensure this enforcement and to protect our health and continue to carry out their other tasks. Justice plays an essential role. Our society must now be further protected. I understood from Mrs De Wit that she was referring to Mrs Özlem's reply, while I was frowning the eyebrows. I believe that punishment should also be carried out now. This government has rightly taken measures to relieve the pressure. In prisons, too, everything must be done to keep COOVID-19 out. When there is an outbreak, in prisons, but also in hospitals and residential care centres, that is a tragedy. We must avoid that at all times. We look forward to the power of attorney decisions that will be voted on in another committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u35	Minister, of course, we are talking a lot about priorities at this time. It is difficult to establish a list of priorities. But how can we act as if we are not aware of it, given the number of calls for spousal violence that continues to increase? For our part, we did not wait for this crisis to denounce flaws in justice and rankings without too much follow-up. We did not wait for this crisis to denounce the lack of resources put on the table to combat such violence effectively. France and Spain, as has been said, have taken stock of the problem, and measures to assist victims have been strengthened. The pharmacies have been designated as relay points for the victims. We have just tabled a motion for a resolution to put such a mechanism in place at home, in partnership with pharmacies. The fight against such violence must remain, despite this crisis, an urgent and absolute priority for justice. The judiciary must be sensitized and trained on these issues of domestic violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u36	Minister, I don't know what made you sarcasm. I understand that even less when I hear some lines. First of all, I will join what was said before and I will thank you for the detailed answer you gave us on prisons. It was so much so that I would have to read it again in order to stop at each of the elements. I have followed the work in other committees. I take it up all the more for this reason. The answer you gave us really gives us a complete picture. I am pleased to hear that there is a standardization of procedures and guidelines. Like others before me said, there is a gap between the return we have from the ground and what you are telling us. No doubt that between the beginning of the crisis and what is happening today, there is a gap that will have to be checked. I just got some information that confirms what you're saying. I will focus on some elements that I did not understand by rereading your answer. This is the case, in particular, of the 20 euros of credit per inmate. Is this during the entire containment period? Or is it a one shot? I understood it was a one shot. It was already a budget for your department. Hence my question, in which I suggested involving other operators. I don't know you, but some have operators who offer hours of TV programs, etc. Today, cannot those who manage telephones in prison themselves also make an effort to ensure, for example, free exchanges? I know you have had exchanges with your European counterparts. For example, in Spain, the number of calls allowed has been increased; the French government has declared television free and has granted financial aid for telephone credit. There are a few ways to go, in my opinion, that do not put your budget in jeopardy either. This requires negotiation with the operator. As far as the canteen is concerned, you mentioned a specific case. On the other hand, it came back to me that an operator I did not wish to name - Delhaize, to be precise - had to break his contract with establishments, which were therefore forced to turn to more expensive distributors. You answered a question I had not asked about extended leave. Choosing the suspension of the execution of the sentence, even though this leave is subject to conditions, is a cause for concern. Confined for confinement, as long as they remain in prison and do not receive an extended sentence because of the leave that has been taken. In any case, we will have an opportunity to discuss this at the Coronavirus Committee. I will stop here and read your answer carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u37	Minister, thank you. Like my colleagues, I must observe a contrast between your prison response and the rest. One was much more detailed than the other. With regard to discrimination, you said that the College of Attorneys General had told you that no complaints had been filed to date. I confess my astonishment. Indeed, both the information that I receive "from the ground" and the information that appears in the press report the existence of reprehensible phenomena. I am thinking of this testimony, which I did not verify, of someone who was removed from a police station on the grounds that his complaint was not a priority. I know that the police stations are under stress, as are the courts, the public prosecutor's offices, the prison administration, the justice system, as well as you and I. Anyway, it's not easy. In any case, it is not because a complaint has not been registered that one must conclude that there is no recurring phenomenon. I have heard your commitment and that of the Attorney General that discriminatory acts are, despite the penalty threshold, a priority. You said they'd be prosecuted. I would simply like a commitment on your part as Minister of Justice and moral authority. You have to tell these people who work continuously, from morning to evening, in the care services that, if they are discriminated against, they can and even have to report to a police station, where they will be properly received and where their complaint will be recorded. As far as justice is concerned, I have heard you, but you have nevertheless indicated that for the 49 courts and tribunals, it is also the problem. They have to organize themselves, each in their own way, according to the means at their disposal, the staff they have left. I heard that the Cisco Webex app is very effective as it allows everyone to see each other and talk to each other. There would now be processes under way to appoint 60 magistrates; the Supreme Council of Justice is continuing its work; a royal decree of special powers should be made to allow the CSJ to hear the candidates, etc. and to strengthen the judiciary to deal with the backlog which was already known in normal times and which is greater in some judicial districts. All this reminds me of one of your expressions, which dates from April 2019. You said, "Justice will be digital or won't be." I will conclude on that. All this shows that tomorrow, justice will have to be funded or will not be. There you go.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-08-55-commissie-ic143x.u38	Minister, thank you for your very detailed answers. I wanted to point out that with regard to the fight against prison overcrowding, I believe that early release is not necessarily the most appropriate measure. There is a need for an adequate prison policy. As an MR group, we will continue to support your prison construction projects to provide the most humane and quality conditions of detention. As far as the victims are concerned, I have not really heard a full answer about what will happen when an inmate is released, while there are conditions of distance between the victim's place of residence and the location of the released person. What are the rights of the victim? Indeed, the decision is the sole fact of the director and the victim does not have a say. Finally, I would also like to stress, like others, that although we cannot test everyone for the moment, and some groups may have priority, it nevertheless seems to me important to insist that prison officers and detainees be on the list in order to be tested quickly. Some of the prison officers who are ill may have symptoms that call confinement, while in reality they may be able to work if they discover through a test that they are not carrying the virus. This would reduce the rate of absenteeism and improve the quality of prison work.
