ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the list of questions is impressive: 66 are addressed to Mrs De Block and 46 to Mr. Backer. We briefly referred yesterday to the allocation of speaking time, which is an inexhaustible subject in our discussions. We're going to stick to the applied mode two weeks ago. Allowing one more minute by this, by that, leads to an additional quarter of an hour for the questions, to the detriment of the answers or the replies. However, we would like to have answers to our questions and to be able to reply. We will therefore allocate a speaking time of eight minutes for major groups, five minutes for medium groups and three minutes for small groups. So it will be an hour in total. We will then have three-quarters of an hour's response for each minister. In the first round of the replicas, the large groups will have six minutes, the means four and the small two minutes. The second round of response by minister will be ten minutes. A second replica of three, two and one minute respectively depending on the groups may take place. At the previous meeting, most Commissioners seemed satisfied with this procedure. I give the floor to the N-VA for eight minutes in total.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u2	(the sound falls away) Mr President, I had just listed the questions which could be taken up. I have a number of additional questions. This morning I read that there would have been at least a thousand infections in the hospitals. It is, of course, understandable, on the one hand, that in the heat of the battle, when it is very busy in hospitals, infections happen, but at the same time it is important that such fireplaces are detected as quickly as possible. So I have a very specific question: how did we find out about these 1,000 infections and possibly more? Have they been reported? Was that a standard report or was that optional? Will there also be further research into how many actual cases are involved? In addition, as a result of the reporting of the infections in a hospital, was infection outbreaks also identified and was this also communicated to the hospitals in question? My question about the testing of the care staff is in line. There would be investigations, but there are very few figures. Why are these figures not and were they not reported, as is the case in many other countries? When can we expect this report? I also heard that it will be considered at the level of the Health Office whether measures can be taken to compensate for the use of personal protective equipment. Any word on that? Finally, I would like to refer to the question put by my colleague Valerie Van Peel on the medically assisted reproduction programmes. Many couples and women are concerned about the need to respect the deadlines. Can a certain degree of flexibility be shown in this respect? Would you like to clarify that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u3	Of course, on Nursing Day, my question about the health sector, which I am asking for the fifth time in a row, cannot be missed. We are grateful to the healthcare sector, always, but now even more. Madam Secretary, two weeks ago at the committee meeting, you already shared some insights. As regards healthcare staff in the health care institutions, you replied that the distribution key for the billion euro for advances for hospitals would be determined by turnover and the number of COVID-19 patients. Is this over? Can you give me more details about that? You have also clearly recognised that this is a billion euros advance. However, structural funds will also be provided for this sector. How has this been handled so far? What are the means and the keys to be used? Do you also recognise that the bonus for the care staff you announced has been blocked? This is very unfortunate. What solutions are you looking at in the meantime? Have you worked on this file any further? This is a very important dossier for the N-VA Group. You mentioned that there will be an allowance for home care in relation to COVID-19 care. The N-VA Group replicated that this concession does not cover all costs incurred under COVID-19. You then referred not only to an increased fee, but also to a subsidy for material. Real specific nomenclature numbers are still out until today, unless you can give us an answer today. Will they then work with retroactive effect? Two weeks ago, for example, a lot of costs had been incurred. How will it work to compensate the costs incurred by these healthcare providers? Finally, I continue to receive reports of shortages of protective material. Several colleagues from other groups have already delivered this at previous meetings. After the mouth masks not all material has been delivered, especially the gloves in home care are starting to become scarce. Both Minister De Backer and Minister De Block have said to contact the chief officer. That's what happened. After two weeks there is still no answer and the material was still not delivered. That's not neat. In committee one is shipped off with a reference to the chief officer who is then contacted, but from whom neither answer nor material is received. To sum up, the problems have still not been solved. There is still no compensation for the healthcare sector today. As far as the protective material is concerned, after two months it is still not all settled. What's the deal with that? Can we finally, after two months, get an improvement and give our care staff the respect it deserves? Then I have another question about face shields. For the details, I refer to the question submitted. I refer to an article from JAMA that I received from Mr Gijbels. Why have we not provided face shields and mouth masks for the population? We are seeing a lot of problems there right now. The federal government has not kept its promise, it is the local authorities that are coming out of the pipe to protect the population. There too, however, we see problems concerning the material and the filter. Following on from the article in the respected journal JAMA, my question is why we have not chosen face shields, which are also limited in price and at least fully protect, both mouth and nose and eyes, in both directions. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u4	The pharmacists have organised themselves since the entry of the Royal Decree of 23 March and entered a stock of mouth masks at 21% VAT. The government reduced VAT to 6% and suddenly authorised retail sales. Since the corona crisis, the turnover of the pharmacies has declined globally due to the delay of chronic care. The pharmacists themselves have also provided financial support for all the precautions that had to be taken. The financial burden cannot be underestimated. Are you prepared to argue, for example, that VAT regularisation should be applied retroactively?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u5	Madam Minister, Minister, my questions about the mouth masks are about the switch from the pharmacy to the wholesale distribution. You first sold prescription mouth masks and on 22 April you contacted the pharmacists to distribute a stock of 35 million mouth masks present at Comeos via the pharmacies. You have reached an agreement on this. The stock had disappeared on April 25th. Did you start an investigation into that stock? It's about 20 million masks that would be sprayed abroad. You finally decided to sell through the grocery stores. Will the cashier also explain the correct use of mouth masks? Will there also be registered and phased distribution in the grocery stores? At what price have I read the amount of 5 million euros per week? Why are those 35 million mouth masks, which you knew were present, not confiscated, but, for example, chloroquine was confiscated in the pharmacies? The second part of my questions concerns the export of personal protective equipment outside Europe. Belgium is responsible for one third of exports in this area. There's a hub in Liège. I am particularly interested to hear why no licence was refused. Why wasn't there a thorough investigation into why certain deliveries were delegated abroad? Which companies have you granted permits to and for what reason? Another part of my questions is about the 1.8 million masks that would have been stolen in Liège. Can you confirm that? In the meantime, does the lab have the results of the masks involved? Are these masks compatible or not? There is a risk that these masks will be sold in a parallel circuit, but it is unknown whether they are safe. Another part concerns the question whether Mahmut Öz has already repaid the advance to the Belgian State in connection with the failed delivery. I also have questions about the FFP2 mouth masks that were destroyed. Did all those FFP2 mouth masks go down? Has the State checked the condition of those mouth masks? Why was the decision never taken at the Council of Ministers or in the nuclear cabinet? How was the communication between Minister De Block's cabinet and the Public Health Office? Why didn't they replace that stock or build a rotating stock?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u6	Mrs Depoorter, we must follow the Rules of Procedure, Members must be present to ask their questions. I'm saying this for whoever's next. You cannot ask a question instead of a colleague who is not present. The question can only be postponed or converted into a written question. That needs to be clarified. I have heard that you mentioned Mrs Van Peel and Mr Freilich.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u7	Mr President, I am going to look into it and I will let you know whether the questions are being postponed or converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Depoter, with regard to the list of questions from which you have spoken, we could hardly follow the answers to these questions. That is not serious and it is also problematic for translation. You can rattle it any way you want, but we can't follow that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u9	Madam Secretary, you have all received these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u10	It may be a problem for the translation, but you have received these questions. The numbers of the questions were listed because they would then be included in the integral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u11	I know, but it is also a matter of respect for the people of the services who have to make a report on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u12	Slowing down may be appropriate, but yes, time is limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u13	Mr President, I have five questions, two of them to Minister De Block and three to Minister De Backer. The first question concerns the focus on mental health care in the GEES. You will not be surprised that we are very pleased that a working group has been included in the GEES for this purpose. I would like to link this question with a number of questions from previous weeks, namely whether it will also provide advice on who is taking care of them. It is our concern, every day, but certainly today in the context of the Nursing Day, that we should follow them as closely as possible and receive them. You have referred in the past to IDEWE and others who accept it, but we heard this morning in the hearing on mental health that more is needed, that a federal plan is needed. I therefore wonder whether the GEES will give advice on this issue too. My other question No. 55005105C was on the agenda yesterday, but not today. In the system she stands as "without object." It is about how the deaths in the residential care centres are counted. There are deaths, tests and positive, but also deaths "probably by COVID-19." We're testing a lot more now. The original question of a few weeks ago was whether that split is being made. Do we know how many cases have effectively tested positive and how many have not? This caused a lot of confusion because at some point there were so many deaths in the residential care centres. The questions to Minister De Backer are mainly about mouth masks. I agree with Mr Depooster's question. What about the mouth masks that are now allowed to be sold in the supermarket? We hear a lot of stories about this and I would like to hear the objective version of the facts from Minister De Backer. Why the choice to sell mouth masks in the supermarket and not to rely on the expertise of the pharmacists? The second question concerns the filters that are found to be incompatible with the mouth masks we will get. I think it's a very strange story that they were never meant to be compatible. I myself made mouth masks based on the patterns on makejemondmask.be and it also says that filters are not necessary for those patterns. The patterns distributed through other instances do not even mention filters. I wonder if those filters are still necessary. Then why is there so much money spent on it? My final question concerns the contradiction between the reports from the hospitals and caregivers, who continue to cry that they have too little resources and too little protective material, and your communication that, according to the figures and predictions, there would be no problems. I'd like to extend that to the first line, too. If the hospitals, based on your figures, already say that there is too little material, there is certainly a shortage in the first line. What is your explanation for the discrepancy between what the carers say and what you say?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u14	Mr. Chair, Madam and Mr. Ministers, I had tabled a similar question about citizen masks. How can I tell you? My arms are falling off me. Fifteen days ago, I asked if the filters that were to be purchased would be compatible with the masks ordered by Minister Goffin. Then I gave up reintroducing the question, because – obviously – I thought they would be. But that is not the case. Don't let that happen! According to a study by the University of Antwerp, carried out at the request of the Union Générale des Infirmiers de Belgique, 25% of healthcare providers indicate that they do not have sufficient equipment to protect themselves against coronavirus. The investigation gathered testimony from 1,216 nurses, caregivers and caregivers. As a result, 18% of respondents said that they did not have enough FFP2 masks to protect themselves optimally, and also complained of a shortage of aprons, visors, surgical masks and gloves. This rate is still significantly higher for home and residential care. Minister De Backer, I do not understand the discrepancy between the figures you are making in terms of ordered and distributed material and these recurring problems on the ground. If you could give me an explanation, I'd be very happy. My second question concerns serological tests. We were able to read in the press on May 7 that the federal government had placed an order for a million serological tests at DiaSorin. Has the RMG been able to make a decision on the role and criteria for using serological tests in the overall testing strategy? What about ZenTech and the tests developed by the laboratory of the Saint-Luc University Clinics UCL, because we don't talk about it anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u15	Mr. Chair, Minister, my first question is about shortages and stocks of contraceptives and condoms. Could you please complete the answer you gave me last week on this subject? My second concerns the plan for the deconfining of maternity wards. This raises the question of when the protocol normally applicable can be applied again? For the rest, I refer to my written questions in the hope of getting the most precise answers possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u16	I insist on my main questions. I come back to the possibility of using tracking dogs, as is the case in Corsica, where sniffing dogs are trained to detect coronavirus. I would therefore like to know whether these dogs could eventually contribute to the protection of contaminated persons in our country. Have any contacts been established in this regard? My second question concerns general practitioners authorized to perform PCR tests. These doctors have lacked information and protective equipment and are now asking many questions. What are the means available to them? My next question is about screening, especially for asymptomatic people. As part of the tracing process, we are now entering a transitional phase. The Sciensano site tells us that people who have high-risk contact with a case of VOCID-19 and who are themselves in professional contact with people at risk of developing a severe form of the disease will be tested, which in the end will amount to testing asymptomatic people. These criteria remain relatively restrictive. When will we be ready for massive screening and how is the evolution of our screening capacity envisaged? Will we soon be able to test all contacts of sick people? Such energy deployed in tracing would obviously not be effective without systematic testing. Finally, my last question concerns serological tests and has been discussed at each committee. Mr De Backer, following your statements at the last committee, can you confirm to us which tests today meet the quality requirements? How many tests will be stored to ensure sufficient supply? Is the place of these tests in the strategy of diagnosis and immune response to infection officially established? At the previous committee, an INAMI protocol was still under negotiation. What is the status of the discussions on social security reimbursement? Who will pay for this cost? Do you confirm that under no circumstances will it be the citizen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u17	I would just like to go back to the apparently surgical masks, which we see blooming now in the big distribution. According to the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association (BPA), we can expect overstocking and wastage of these rare means. According to professionals in the trade, selling such products in supermarkets could be at the expense of consumer health. Without advice from pharmacists, pharmacists fear that some people may misuse their masks and eventually become false protection. I already told the Prime Minister last Thursday. From day to day, the stores were allowed to sell these surgical masks. Surprisingly, they had stock available. According to the PDB, large areas were allowed to build up reserves while we were in short supply. Meanwhile, health care staff were exposed to VOCID-19, without adequate protection. Pharmacists have been fighting for weeks to have sufficient masks and to meet the needs of medical personnel, general practitioners, home nurses, and the paramedical sector. The state has asked them to regulate the issue of these products, and now the state immediately authorizes the sale in all these shops. As a result, pharmacies find themselves with large stocks, which they paid very much. While pharmacists have been on the front line since the beginning of this health crisis, it is a new slap imposed on them by the federal government. Minister, what do you answer to pharmacists? Have you met with the representatives of the PDB? Why did you ask to regulate the delivery of masks to pharmacists for weeks, while during that time supermarkets took advantage of them to make stock? How can we ensure that the citizen is properly informed? How to explain the very low quality of the masks that are sold? Above all, what checks will be carried out? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u18	Minister, Minister, I would like to speak with you about wearing the mask, the problem of billing dentists, and the support of our health care staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u19	When it comes to wearing the mask, a cat would not find its young! It is changed from "recommended" to "strongly recommended" to the population for masks but it is imposed for public transport. The distribution of filters, which must be provided by the communes, is more than wasteful, they arrive in lots, at the dropper, and – cherry on the cake – do not finally go into the masks to which they were dedicated. The date of arrival of the masks is unknown and there is no certainty of quality and provenance. Anyway, so many things that it's time to have a pilot on the plane. Minister, Minister, why is wearing the mask not mandatory for all people in public places when they are in public transport? We've seen the important lines in front of the stores since yesterday. Why strongly recommend wearing the mask? Is that the opinion of the experts? What do you think of the initiatives of the somewhat poor mayors who impose the wearing of the mask in their commune, at the risk of being imposed a salt fine? Do you confirm that the government will not make masks available for children under 12 years of age? If so, why? Is it not necessary for them to have it as well, since parents are very worried on the eve of the school year? As far as filters are concerned, if they don't go into masks, is that not an aberration? Why not consider a comprehensive solution? What should we do with these filters? Isn't that money thrown out the windows? Minister, can we not consider delivering by bpost, public service, to the public rather than putting the weight and constraint on the municipalities again? As far as dentists are concerned, we are surprised that they are still in need of equipment and that the patient is responsible for the costs. What are the solutions? Has specific equipment been provided by the state to dentists? Will these be restocked? Will dentists be responsible for the cost of this equipment? Or will it be covered by health care insurance? What solutions do you envisage so that these costs are never passed on to the patient who is already in difficulty? Finally, it's World Nurses Day today. I salute our superheroes. And I think we all have to. Caregivers expect clear signals on psychosocial support, on the material made available. Are you considering setting up psychological support for all the caregivers who are suffering today to take care of them? Are you considering funding in this context? Can you...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u20	You must conclude, Mr. Rigot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u21	I finish, Mr. President, but you are sometimes more zealous with some than with others. Minister, can you guarantee that home medical personnel will also have the necessary equipment, since there were the first deliveries today. This nurse complains today and fears that he may not have the equipment he needs to provide front-line care. There you go. Thank you and I'm sorry I took a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u22	Thank you, Mr. Rigot. And I assure you, I feel perfectly neutral.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u23	Madam Secretary, a while ago angry Moroccan Belgians or Belgian Moroccans came to the news. They were trapped in their country of origin because of the corona measures and the Belgian Government did not do enough to get them back to Belgium. Meanwhile, we saw that they arrived in Zaventem. On one of the repatriation flights from Morocco were 264 passengers. Meanwhile, some planes have landed, I think. On these full flights it is not possible to keep a distance of one and a half meters. We therefore wonder what protective measures are being taken at Belgian airports, both for staff and for passengers? Was it compulsory to wear mouth masks on the repatriation flights already carried out? What airline operated the flights? Is it compulsory to wear mouth masks during flight and at airports, as is the case in public transport? Are passengers tested upon arrival? How many infections came into the country from the lockdown? Do passengers have to be quarantined for 14 days upon arrival? If so, how is that checked? If not, why not? In principle, only essential movements by plane are allowed. Anyone who arrives at the airport without a valid reason must take the next flight back, we read in De Standaard of 6 May. How many passengers have already been returned? How and by whom is the reason for the trip checked? Where do the passengers stay pending the next flight? With regard to the 284 export licences granted in full mouth mask crisis, I would like to know the following. Why were export licences granted despite the lack of protective equipment? Who were the recipients? Which companies were licensed? Were you aware of this? Who gave the permission to deliver the permits? How much protection is it about right? Do you find the lack of protective equipment in our country and the difficult search to reconcile with exports to non-European countries? A next series of questions concerns the figures for hospitalisations. In order to ease the corona measures, it is of the utmost importance that the number of hospitalisations continues to decrease. Fortunately, we will be able to do so for the time being. For the sake of relaxation, it is also crucial that we know where the new recordings and contaminations come from. Is this about people who have contracted corona at the rest home or are these people who were still working professionally? So will you have the hospitals report to which categories the new hospital patients belong, in order to find out where the transmission of the virus is most frequent, and in this way relaxing or not relaxing the corona restrictions? You stated in the VTM news of 26 April 2020 that keeping such data is almost impossible. Have you introduced that to the hospitals? What was their reaction? What is the situation in the hospitals with the re-launch of the non-urgent consultations? Can you give us an update on that? I have a number of specific questions that citizens have asked me. The first question is about a boat owner. The coastal mayors hope that the second remaining members will be allowed to attend their second stay on 18 May 2020. If it ever comes to that, will owners of pleasure boats be allowed to go to their boats? After all, they also see that boat as a kind of second stay. Someone reported a problem with the corona phone. From the question asked and the answer given to the person in question, he wanted a written confirmation. That turned out to be difficult and even impossible. I understand that some people want written confirmation in order to prove in certain situations that they have informed the corona phone or those responsible, in order, for example, to prove to the services that they have received a certain response. What authority is decisive in this respect, the corona telephone or the law enforcement services? I have a very pertinent question about a student with an autoimmune disease who is studying and staying in Spain. He wondered whether he could come to Belgium for his therapy and also whether he could come back to Spain if necessary. In doing so, I have rescheduled my questions within the specified time frame.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u24	Mrs. Sneppe, that's right. You stayed within the speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u25	Minister, since the beginning of the crisis, pharmacists have been solicited on all sides, whether for drugs, gloves, hydro-alcoholic gel or masks. These health professionals responded in order to help and sometimes even reassure the public, including by providing advice on the proper use of masks. A decision was issued on 23 March to prevent a shortage of personal protective equipment. From then on, these protective equipment were only available at the pharmacy and with a prescription from a healthcare professional, including pharmacists. The pharmacists have been sparingly handling the protective equipment. For example, they have limited the number of mouth masks per person to meet a government request to distribute the masks in a fair, responsible and dosed manner. Since May 5, masks are available in large areas. As a result of this measure, pharmacists fear, among other things, the misuse of the mask. In addition, some pharmacists are still waiting to receive their own protective equipment. Minister, in this new context, what will now be the role of pharmacists in the sale of masks? What measures are being taken to ensure that pharmacists can still play their professional role in health care and provide advice on the use of masks? What measures are being taken to support pharmacists in the face of these changes? Then I would like to talk very briefly about the e-consultation. During the lockdown period, patients could consult a doctor over the phone and via an e-consultation. Unfortunately, a remote consultation raises a number of problems. Lockdow measures are now being phased out and consultations are gradually restarted. Will it remain possible to consult a doctor online? If so, how do you intend to regulate this legally?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u26	Mr. President, Minister, Minister, we see that the evolution of the number of patients in our hospitals, in the gradual definity, continues to be positive. This is obviously good news, but we must be vigilant at every stage. To do this, here are my questions. What specific organization is planned with general practitioners to support them as part of the resumption of their consultations? What practical means are available to them in the testing of communities such as schools, nurseries, day care centres and nursing homes? What guidelines and agreements are set out in the resumption of consultations and care for chronic patients? What process is being implemented with hospital directorates for specialist consultations? What are the new possibilities for families and children since 11 May 2020 for visits to non-COVID patients in severe or, for example, out of resuscitation outside VOCID? Have visits been resumed, also as of 11 May 2020, in psychiatric hospitals and revalidation structures? As Mrs Magali Dock did today, I have already asked you about the role of pharmacists. What measures will they take to deal with them directly as part of their front-line work during periods of gradual deconfination? What are the compliance tests performed on masks sold in the large distribution sectors? How many are currently on sale in our country by sector? What specific features of the retail outlets are in place for certain types of masks for healthcare professionals as part of the strategic stock of FFP2 masks? In terms of nursing work in this context, what structural organization of specific teams "COVID-19" is implemented with family doctors and the referent pharmacist? What special arrangements are made for outpatient rehabilitation, including respiratory care, and post-disease revalidation? Are specific organizational, benefit and reimbursement measures taken, particularly for physiotherapists, nurses and caregivers? What are the results of the prevalence study conducted on the health status of caregivers? What is the protocol for nursing homes and nursing homes in the case of a test carried out for all residents and staff, with positive results in residences? Is the testing and monitoring of staff carried out on a global or individual basis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u27	Mrs. Taquin, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u28	I conclude, Mr. President. With regard to psychosocial risks for health-care workers, could you please explain to me the additional measures for the support of health-care workers and hospital staff in the coming weeks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u29	Question No 55005418C by Mr Michel De Maegd is transformed into a written question. On the other hand, I do not know what is happening to Mrs Florence Reuter's question No 55005757C. Dear colleagues of the MR, could you ask me if it is postponed or turned into a written question? Mrs Farih has asked for her questions. 55005963C, 55005967C, 55005971C, 55005973C, 55005976C and 55005978C. Debates of the European Parliament 55005890C by Mrs Dierick will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u30	Madam Secretary, my question concerns the reimbursement of rehabilitation for COVID-19 patients. Patients who have been in the intensive care department stand for months of intensive rehabilitation. Both physically and respiratoryly, and mentally, they have a very heavy rehabilitation ahead of them. Of course, it must also remain affordable. In Belgium there are only four approved rehabilitation centres for chronic respiratory disorders. However, through the existing RIZIV convention, they are not eligible for a rehabilitation programme today. You have already said that you would consider whether they could not be reimbursed. My specific question is therefore whether this has already been settled. How will you do that? Is there enough room in the rehabilitation centers? What is the budgetary impact of this? I hope, above all, that they will be eligible, but I think that is what you want. With my second question, I agree with my colleagues because I was also surprised that the pharmacists were not eligible for the distribution of mouth masks. At the beginning of the previous legislature, you made a pact with the pharmacists, placing the house pharmacist at the centre. In this crisis, they can offer the most accessible and accessible care. It is therefore surprising that you have chosen the supermarkets to distribute the mouth masks anonymously. On what criteria was this choice based? The supermarkets today have no problem with income, as they are the only food suppliers. It would have been logical for the house pharmacist to be the first to be eligible for the distribution of protective equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u31	I am reminded that Mr Van Lommel is also present for the Flemish Interest to ask a question. There are 30 seconds left for the Flemish Interest. Mr Van Lommel, are you still here? Apparently not. He was just there. We'll see if he comes back. Mrs Merckx, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u32	Mr President, to be complete, I refer to the text of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u33	On this International Day of Nurses, I will start with the questions that concern this profession, those people on the front line who have embarked body and soul in the fight against coronavirus and who, today, are still waiting for protective equipment. The situation therefore still seems problematic. What is the situation in this regard? Are the quality procedures in place at the federal level also at the regional level? In particular, we are reminded that non-compliant masks have recently been delivered to the Notre-Dame de Grace clinic in Gosselies. With regard to screening for health care personnel, the minister replied yesterday that we had opted for serology. This method is a solution when the infection is already in progress, but it seems to me very late to put it into practice. Do you also consider testing all caregivers at specific times, in what form and under what conditions? I repeat that we have still not reached our maximum screening capacity, even though we managed to complete 21,971 tests on 8 May, while the theoretical capacity is 25,000. Mr De Backer, as far as testing is concerned, what is their percentage today? What kind of tests are carried out through the famous pharmaceutical consortium? What tests are carried out using conventional laboratories? Can you send us, because this is still not done despite repeated requests, the contract that binds the federal authorities to the pharmaceutical consortium? I have the same question about the manufacture of masks by Van Heurck and ECA producers. Can you also give us these contracts? I obviously join my colleagues' questions about COMEOS.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u34	Mrs Merckx, your time is almost up!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u35	I had a question about Comeos, but my colleagues talked about it. Minister, my last question concerns the quarantine certificates that the treating physicians can issue. Can you specify who can prescribe this certificate and under what conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u36	We must conclude, Mrs Merckx!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u37	For contaminated persons and their contacts and for patients at risk, is there a specific list to which we can prescribe this certificate?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u38	Mr President, I refer to the question that has been put.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u39	Mr President, Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few weeks, a number of measures have come into force to lead us out of the lockdown. There are still a number of important new steps to be taken. Now it is important to monitor the impact of these measures on the spread of the virus very strongly, so that we can intervene when the virus becomes too strong. We know that a set of parameters is taken into account, but it is not so clear which ones. What happens if the parameters would evolve in a negative way? In addition to our exit plan, do we also have a plan of measures that will be taken if the virus were to spread again? What is the set of indicators that is followed to map the spread of the virus? Are there any values that cannot exceed these indicators? Is there, in other words, a concrete plan of action in the event of an increase in dissemination? Meanwhile, scientists in universities, research institutes and pharmaceutical companies worldwide are also very intensively looking for a vaccine. There is Dr. Stoffels from Janssen Pharmaceutica, who strongly believes he will have a workable vaccine by the beginning of next year, which he will be able to scale up very quickly. We also have someone like Bruno Holthof, the top man at Oxford University Hospitals, who hopes to have a vaccine by September, so he can vaccinate all British by the end of the year. He wants to scale this up simultaneously to provide other countries with the vaccine, especially Belgium, which apparently is his native country. More and more the question is asked: what if we fail to develop enough vaccines to vaccinate everyone from the start? We are faced with the ethical question of who we will and who we will not vaccinate. It might then be logical to opt to vaccinate at-risk groups first as elderly or people with certain underlying conditions who have been found to be very vulnerable in recent months. Are we already working on a strategy to obtain vaccines as soon as they are available? If so, will that country be country by country or is there European consultation? Is there also any thought about who we will vaccinate if there are not enough vaccines to vaccinate the entire population all of a sudden?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u40	Mr President, Minister, Minister, in last week's plenary session, the Prime Minister did not answer my question about the distribution of mouth masks through pharmacies. I hope to get an answer from you today, Minister. Mr President, Mr Melissa Depraetere had a similar question with regard to Comeos. She put her question No. 55005808C in a written question. For the question about the testing of general practitioners I refer to my written record:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u41	Then I come to my question about the dentists, who have recently been allowed to charge a corona supplement, which may amount to EUR 50. Either the patient is running on this or the RIZIV, but that is of course also the patient indirectly. We think that's a long way to go. Madam Minister, I hope you will answer the questions I have put. I refer to the written record:
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u42	Then I come to my final question about the recommendations of Kom op tegen Kanker in the exit strategy, because cancer patients have very specific needs. I have also put a few questions on this. I hope for the cancer patients that you will respond positively to their suggestions. Then there's the sick transport. You have already indicated that corona-related transport will be covered by the 112 service. Will this also apply to patients who, due to the corona crisis, have to call for an ambulance and not before?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u43	Madam Minister, I would like to add a question on the health premium. During the topical debate on 28 April last, you stated that the healthcare premium would be discussed at the then weekly Inter-Ministerial Conference, and that a compromise proposal was on the table at federal level. All that was needed was consultation with the Länder. Has the care premium been decided on for all nurses and caregivers? What's this federal proposal made up of? To my surprise and regret, I noticed that the nine measures for nurses you announced this morning do not include the care premium. That worries me a little about the decision that was taken on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u44	Mr President, Minister, I refer to the text of my question. It was my intention to ask this question in the Committee on Home Affairs. Some aspects of my question may not be entirely appropriate in this committee for that reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the time allocated to me, I shall go straight to the essentials. I would like to address both strategic and field issues. With regard to the strategy, the results of PCR tests should be available within 24 hours in order to enable effective tracing. In terms of the organisation of these tests, it must be noted that swabs are still lacking, particularly in revalidation centres. Some doctors also lack it. Since the implementation of the tracing, i.e. almost a small week, several tens of thousands of contacts should have been identified. Is that indeed the case? Have the persons concerned been tested? What about the serology strategy? The information on this subject has not yet been determined in Belgium, whereas this is the case in all our neighbouring countries, sometimes for several weeks. You know, however, that this is important in terms of strategy, but also for the reimbursement of patients. For contacts identified through tracing, are PCR tests combined with serological tests? These are prerequisites that were clearly put on the table by the exit group experts. As far as strategy is concerned, I am astonished by a series of Sciensano directives. So, do you find it normal that while, according to evidence-based medicine, anyone responsible for swab sampling should wear a FFP2 mask, Sciensano decided to amend its directive by advocating the use of a simple surgical mask? However, it is known that there is a risk of major transmission. Is it logical that the Sciensano directive on children only provides for a period of seven days between the onset of symptoms and the possibility of returning to school? Scientifically, the principle of evidence-based is not followed here either. Do you find it normal that, in Sciensano's guidelines, children are considered not to be potential vectors of VOCID-19, this still in opposition to evidence-based? Now I would like to refer to remarks from the ground. First, it has been several weeks since nurses were promised a VOCID follow-up nomenclature for home care. Then, will the carers' premium finally be awarded to them? If so, how? I also note that protective equipment is not always equipped with gloves. Similarly, dentists lack the FFP2 mask. In addition, medical specialists working outside the hospital are not included in the RMG priority list for such equipment. There is also a problem for general practitioners, whose teleconsultations have not been considered urgent, so that, initially, they have not been able to benefit from the bridge right. This omission has been repaired but, for this reason, the Walloon Region does not grant them access to the regional premium. Moreover, what about the billion advances promised to hospitals? Finally, for the masks, as I said in plenary, it is a matter of concern that large-scale distribution has been able to store them for months.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u46	Mrs. Fonck, we have to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u47	Mr. President, I'm done. The creation of reserves by large distribution is all the more surprising since, during this time, everyone agreed to recognize a shortage in the market. This is a terrible concern for pharmacists and caregivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u48	I would like to stress certain points in the light of the current situation in recent days and in recent hours. First, the nurses' work. Today is May 12, International Day of Nurses. I wanted to come back to this profession which has given so much to avoid a health catastrophe and which, despite everything, at the same time, has never felt so unvalued. One example is the Take Care of Care petition, which was launched by all caregivers, including nurses. Today, this petition reached 30,000 signatures. We were at 25,000 when I put my question on this. I would like to know, on this particular day, what concrete commitments you can make, Madam Minister, to support our 140,000 nurses in their practice. I also wanted to go back to wearing the mask in the shops. We had the opportunity last night to take stock of this first day of reopening of the shops. It emerged from this that the wearing of the mask by the customers is not at all obvious. This had to happen, when the government simply says it is strongly advised, by refusing to make it fully mandatory. However, making masks mandatory is a demand from trade unions, experts, as well as health workers. This is intended to protect both customers and traders. Otherwise, we find ourselves in a situation that is once again a matter of trouble. Some businesses decide to impose the wearing of the mask within them, some municipalities decide to adopt police orders to make the wearing of the mask obligatory in certain commercial arteries. Some municipalities even go further by imposing the wearing of the mask throughout the public space. I think that at a time when the wearing of the mask is mandatory in public transport and will be in schools when they are reopened, we would really gain in consistency by imposing the wearing of the mask in all shops. I would like to know whether such a decision is on the agenda of tomorrow's National Security Council meeting. I am thinking of wearing the mask in shops, but also in schools. I would also like to hear you on the social distancing control bracelets. It is these bracelets that emit beeps when social distancing is not respected. We have a pilot experience, currently in Antwerp, which is made available to all these workers. I wish I had your opinion on those bracelets. Are we already aware of the results of this experiment at the port of Antwerp? In case of positive results, could these bracelets be extended to other companies, or even to the population, and under what criteria? Could we consider making these bracelets available so that certain activities can be revived - I am thinking in particular of cultural and sporting activities? I would like to conclude with the resumption of non-COVID activities in hospitals. We know the National Security Council has decided to...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u49	Mrs. Rohonyi, please close.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u50	This is essential to avoid delaying care and thus collateral victims. I would have liked to hear from you about the concrete measures put in place to inform doctors about the modalities of this resumption of activities, since it is our responsibility that some doctors and hospitals have not yet been notified of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u51	Thank you for the various questions. I will try to work in different themes and to touch and answer as many questions as possible. I'll start with the hatch around the testing. Over the past few weeks, we have built up a huge amount of capacity, both through the hospital and clinical labs' channel, but also through the federal platform. Over the last few days, we've managed to take around 20,000 to 25,000 tests a day. The testing in the collections is now taking place. The regional authorities have sent us certain collections to take a picture of what is going on through PCR tests, based on the priorities set by the regions themselves. This is coming to an end. A second phase is now in progress, whereby PCR testing will primarily be used to detect and test patients with mild symptoms. A positive contact study will then be started. We have very consciously chosen this strategy. There has been a lot of consultation with the general practitioners to see how this would be done in the best way. In the first place, it was intended to restore the classical clinical lab circuit as much as possible, as clinical labs say, rightly or wrongly, that they have capacity that would not have been used. This means that patients with mild symptoms can present themselves to the GP, or the GP refers them to a triage centre to have the tests taken through the clinical labs. So much for the first circuit. If positive tests are followed, the contact examination can be started and the triage centres will take the tests. The ratio now is that the clinical labs remain below 10,000 tests, with 8,000 to 9,000 tests per day, and that the central platform decreases over 10,000 tests per day. You will be aware that the number of tests that are reduced per day depends very much on the number of patients who are present and on the number of contacts they have had. It is therefore difficult to estimate how many tests we will take in the next few days and weeks as part of the contact study because this is determined by the rhythm of the pandemic and by the contacts that will then have to be tested. When we look at the figures, we have a very good test strategy. We have built the capacity, with 20,000 to 25,000 tests per day. That puts us internationally in the matchloton. This is also necessary to ensure that we can do the contact research properly. The possibility exists to release even more test capacity. I talked about this last time, but that decision lies with the interfederal committee testing and contact follow-up, because it is not the intention to release unused capacity again, but the necessary capacity is released au fur et à mesure that the pandemic will hopefully not spread again, but it is never known that it will spread again. Within the current test capacity, we do a lot of tests with a very clear strategy. It is important that we develop a strategy. There's no point in saying that we'll test everyone and that everyone can come and get a test. For example, if there were people with symptoms again in collections, they could be tested via that circuit of the first line. That's obvious. A co-ordination doctor can take samples and run tests through the classic clinical labs at such a time. Should there be a new flare-up in a collectivity or at a very specific location, the capacity of the federal platform is available to test much more extensively in the very short term and thus map local flare-ups. To make use of this test capacity, there is, of course, a need for many different things. We must be able to guarantee logistics, but we must also have erasers and reagents. On the one hand, there are clinical labs that have made it clear that they have sufficient test capacity and all the elements together. You have undoubtedly read a number of open letters about this. That's going very well, in consultation. On the other hand, there is the central platform, where we have provided enough reagents and wipers to scale up to 45,000 tests per day. The PCR tests are very reliable. Of course, there are no figures of false positives or false negatives. If it appears that a test is negative while the doctor is convinced that a patient has COVID, the doctor may give up the patient for further contact and isolation. In this way one can ensure that the spread of the virus is stopped. The labs used are, on the one hand, the classic clinical labs and, on the other hand, the central platform. All are under control of the reference lab and the FAGG. I can tell you that 0.3 % of the Federal Test Platform testing results in no or unclear results. There are several options. One can take a new test, but one can also see if there are any symptoms to decide to proceed to self-insulation. The roll-out in the general practitioners' circuit was of course very important. The discussion with the GPs about better deployment of the test capacity started at the end of April. I asked in the consultation how they saw it and their approach was very clear at the time that they wanted to continue working with their own clinical labs. You can. We have absolutely no problem doing it that way. The domes also asked to be able to vouch for communication with their own members about the course of the procedure. It was also agreed at the time that the protective material would be supplied through the triage centres and that the wipers would be supplied via the classic circuit of the clinical labs, unless the tests would take place in the triage centres themselves. Then they would be delivered by the federal platform. This is communicated to the GPs in that way from the moment there was clarity. After all, we did not get the lists of where to deliver until Friday evening before the weekend of 1 May. DOD worked hard all that weekend to deliver everything to the right addresses. Triage centres which were closed or which needed to be re-established now receive deliveries from the federal platform from the start. General practitioners who wished to test in their own cabinet were able to retrieve protective equipment from the triage centers. That was also agreed with the GP domes. The wipers were, as I said, supplied by the clinical labs. Last week, it was a test run. We have noticed that there was still a delay in the system. We'd like the test results to come in within 24 hours. The federal testing platform, which was all tampered with by the tests in the residential care centers, can process 95% of the tests within 24 hours or within 36 hours. That result was recoupled. We are now looking at how the clinical labs can develop the same speed in order to start the contact investigation as soon as possible. As regards reimbursements, both for PCR tests and serological tests, there has been a consultation to clarify, firstly, to the doctors which patients are eligible for which tests; secondly, to clarify which tests are reimbursed and for what amount; thirdly, how to allow doctors to take the decisions on serology themselves. That letter is now being drawn up and will be sent around one of the following days. There was also a specific question about the serological tests. As far as serological tests are concerned, the debate is obviously quite difficult. In our neighbors, it's not all decided either. For example, at the beginning of the crisis, the United Kingdom had ordered serological tests, but they were not used because they were unreliable and therefore put in place a strategy not serological but based on the PCR. In addition, a few days ago, we received the opinion of the French Medical Committee, which provides very targeted indications and defines when serology will be useful. On May 8, 2020, the Risk Management Group set out in a second opinion, based on the recommendations of the Risk Assessment Group, how to use this serology. This recommendation is being finalized with INAMI. As I indicated, it will be published and sent to physicians as soon as possible, in the coming days. Reimbursement is currently being discussed between INAMI and the various experts. It is clear that this is a very specific refund for both PCR and serology. INAMI will communicate on this subject. There is still a great deal of research to be done on serological testing. Among other things, we do not have clear information on the volume of antibodies developed after an infection. This raises many questions and doubts, hence the usefulness of serological tests. For the serological tests we work together with several companies that have contacted us. There are actually two ways of working. Firstly, we ask that the tests not only have a CE marking, but also that they be validated. The list of validated tests, by Belgian or European laboratories, can be found on the website of the FAGG. We publish them in all transparency. However, we cannot prevent a CE-marked test from being placed on the market, because that is sufficient in principle and we will not stop it. We have ordered about 6.5 to 7 million tests ourselves. They will arrive in the next two and a half months. The first deliveries have already been made. This is done by several companies: ZenTech, DiaSorin, Abbott and a number of other companies. The aim is to restore the normality of the system as soon as possible, including for PCR tests. So we say to the companies to deliver directly to the clinical labs, so that they have enough reagents and others to be able to carry out the tests effectively. For example, the government is no longer needed, because there are sufficient serological tests in circulation. If necessary, we will help, for example by explaining to large companies what our testing strategy is. For example, if they reserve a particular production line for Belgium and for clinical labs, they have the assurance that this production will be used. At present, there is no planning on how serology will be used, for example, in family aid or helping the elderly. However, it is my belief that the testing of care personnel can and must be part of a strategy of immunity testing, because they have, of course, worked in the full first line, in contact with patients. They are used on an individual basis and not routinely to diagnose, because they are not intended for this purpose either. However, it is intended to provide some certainty and epidemiological information on the spread of the virus to the care staff. As regards the consortium, the federal testing platform will, as always, be used for six months. It is now intended to consider whether alternatives should be proposed for the autumn, for example. I'm sure you will. We see that the cost of such a test is around EUR 25 to EUR 28 on the central platform. That is significantly less than the repayment is likely to be, and that is also an important point to take on board. There were also a number of questions about medicines and the hospital pharmacists. A number of hospital pharmacists are still represented in our task force. They give direct input to us about the problems they experience and the ideas they want to see implemented. Thanks to the efforts of the FAGG, we have been able to keep the various medicines used in the ventilation of COVID-19 patients sufficiently available for patients and also for regular activities, especially until the summer. To ventilate a patient, there are three different medicines essential, namely sleeping agents, muscle relaxants and painkillers. The stocks of these medicines are therefore closely monitored in cooperation with the companies, the wholesalers and also the hospital pharmacists, so that they can be sure that there is always sufficient stock in the hospitals to ensure that no one gets into trouble. As far as protection material is concerned, I explained last time in committee that we made an assessment of the needs on the basis of what the various professions themselves gave us. For example, in recent days there have been around 1.7 million surgical masks distributed to hospitals, ambulance services, home nurses, dentists, midwives, psychiatric centers and mortuaries. In the meantime, we have distributed 30 million surgical masks. In the coming weeks, another 15 million surgical masks will be distributed among the people in primary care. As you can see in the tables I have been able to deliver, we have also ensured that many orders continue to enter pro rata of several millions of masks per week. For the FFP2 masks, the international situation remains very difficult. It appears that there are very few production lines that provide sufficient quality. We will of course continue to actively search through our contacts abroad. In addition, we are also talking to neighbouring countries, but also in their own countries, to start FFP2 production. It is important that we stick to the recommendations made by the RMG and Sciensano on the use of masks. When is an FFP2 mask indicated and when not? When is a surgical mask indicated and when not? I can understand, of course, that people on the ground indicate that they need to be able to use an FFP2 mask in far more cases than recommended. However, both RMG and Sciensano's recommendations have struck the right balance and balance. We therefore adhere to these recommendations. The same applies to everything relating to testing. For the tests, RMG and Sciensano issued recommendations for the use of protective equipment. We have not changed that view. For example, in nursing homes, we provided all the necessary equipment to be able to perform these tests. I understand that there is still a discrepancy on the ground. The reasons for this are very different. First of all, we work with a push model. This means that we transmit the materials on the basis of the information provided to us by domes, by regional authorities or by the Public Health Office, on the basis of addresses and information given to us. Is that always fine-meshed enough? Probably not. That's why we're also working with the University of Antwerp. You've undoubtedly seen the study this weekend. To see how we can refine that model and make sure that the right information gets to the people about the materials they need to use. There is also another aspect. We distribute on the basis of the RMG's priority lists. A number of professions also claim supplies from the federal government. We have always said that we are responsible for deliveries in the healthcare sectors, for people in contact with patients or potential patients in the healthcare sector. It is not possible to deliver much wider, especially when it comes to people who can take other measures to protect themselves and their environment. We are looking at how we can further refine that model in order to respond to problems that would arise on the ground. I referred last time to the chief medical officer, who is the head of the RMG. If emergency deliveries were needed, this contact could be used. This usually happens within 48 hours and only for people who fall within the RMG criteria. There is a second important aspect. The Regions have requested that they be able to continue to deliver, within the framework of their own expertise, the materials to those in need. On two occasions, during a discussion in RMG, my firm offered surgical masks and other protective equipment to the Regions. On two occasions, they clearly indicated that they had sufficient surgical masks and protective equipment to provide such equipment as part of their skills. Caregivers or family workers, for example, fall within the competence of the Regions. If they tell me they don't need this material and are able to deliver it to whoever needs it, I think we have to ask ourselves whether we have the correct information. If it is necessary to recoordinate all this, I remain very open to any proposal. I think this covers the hatch over the PPE's mostly. I would like to add one more point about the general practitioners. As I said earlier, we discussed with the domes how they want to be delivered, including all materials for testing. We then, at the pre-triage point, delivered 251,000 isolation aprons, 58,000 glasses, 1,5 million gloves and 3,2 million surgical masks to the triage points on one weekend, firstly, to ensure that tests could be carried out, and secondly, so that general practitioners would have protective equipment in their office. That process will continue, as we will continue to test. For other groups, including dentists, we have made some deliveries, sometimes also emergency deliveries, because the dentists had to be able to make emergency interventions. Dentists often need an FFP2 mask, because certain treatments may release aerosol formation. Some 21,000 FFP2 masks were distributed across the French-speaking and Dutch-speaking territories, which are further distributed to the different groups through the domes. Now I come to the questions about the PPE's and the grocery stores. In the considerations on the best possible approach, we have been led by the following things. First, even before the Ministerial Decree of 23 March, major stores were allowed to distribute surgical masks. Mostly they could not be found in the shelves because there was no need for them, but the grocery stores did have the permission to do so. At some point it was decided to reserve this for the pharmacists, as we noticed that there was a shortage in the care sector at that time. The unique distribution via pharmacists, to ensure that the surgical masks and the FFP2 mouth masks would go to the healthcare sector, we have always called a temporary measure. This was laid down in the Ministerial Decision of 23 March. The market for FFP2 masks, as I have already indicated, is still problematic, but in the case of surgical mouth masks, the market has now recovered and we have been able to place large orders. On the basis of the report of the expert group GEES, the Royal Decree was published on 2 May. It is important to note that, first of all, there have never been any masks of the federal stock heading towards the grocery stores. They remain exclusively reserved for the care providers, let that be clear. Secondly, large stores are, of course, international companies and their purchasing centres for the whole of Europe. At some point there has been confusion, to which reference has been made several times, with 35 million and 13 million. At some point it was said that 35 million masks were coming to Belgium. As far as I know, they have never been on Belgian territory and no strategic stocks have been built by grocery stores. As long as there is a ban on selling these masks through grocery stores, international purchasing centres do not distribute their purchases to Belgium, but to other countries. On the recommendation of the GEES we then dropped the ministerial decision, so that the purchasing power developed in the last few days and weeks before by the grocery stores could be used to effectively distribute such masks through the grocery stores. It won't take long. We have seen that the grocery stores have made effective purchases. We have forced that we could effectively buy 5 million high-quality surgical masks for the federal stock, exclusively for healthcare. Furthermore, the control of these masks is carried out by the grocery stores themselves, which also have an obligation to continue ordering and thus provide enough supply. Sales must be made at cost and no profit must be made. The price should also remain below 1 euro. That's not an official maximum price, but it's an appointment we made with this way of working. Why isn't it happening through the pharmacists? Because we have seen that the disappearance of the ministerial decision has opened another channel, the canal of the grocery stores, as outlined. In this way, the demand for more masks on the Belgian market was met, including to the general public. We have spoken effectively with the pharmacist's domes, but not to keep distribution exclusively with the pharmacists. By the way, today we see that there are different information channels on how to wear a surgical or other mask correctly. This is the most important form of information that citizens receive so that they begin to realize how any mask should be worn in a correct manner. For the sake of clarity, the ban on the sale of FFP2 masks outside the healthcare sector remains. After all, it is important that FFP2 masks can continue to go to health care institutions. Another question was about everything related to the community masks. We have seen that there was a very great demand from the various entities together. As the Prime Minister said, it is the responsibility of the various entities (Communities, Regions, the federal government, local entities) to work together to provide enough masks. There is of course another channel that has just opened, namely the distribution not only of surgical masks but also of textile masks. An article published a few weeks ago told us that 60% of people already had a mask. In recent times, I think that everyone has had to buy one in fabric, which is needed in public, but also in public transport. The distribution of filters is managed by Mr. Geens. The order to the textile merchants was made by the Defense because it can avail itself of experience. In fact, she's used to ordering fabric masks for the military. The task force helped to contact other suppliers. In the context of public procurement, some of these suppliers were contacted to assess whether they were able to ensure, within a certain period of time, with a certain quality and volume, the production of this type of masks we need. All these different actions were undertaken simultaneously. It was not intended that these masks of Defense would necessarily be compatible, because they are a different type of mask. In this way we manage to deliver together with the different entities enough masks to the population, of different types, as the people themselves want. Then there was a question about rejected masks. It was a question from Mr Freilich, but I think it has been converted into a written question. However, I would like to remind you that the masks that the federal stock orders are all checked for certificates upon arrival, get a visual inspection and go through an ATP procedure. In the meantime, there are three Belgian labs that can do the latter. This ensures that these masks are of sufficient quality. That's the federal filière. The regional entities can follow the same filière, but can also have the masks delivered directly to their own depots and distribute them from there, without the additional ATP control. That is an offer we have made to the regions. They may or may not use it. That ATP procedure is actually a derogation to ensure that we can do both quality control and be sure that certain certificates are not in order, that the masks are of sufficient quality before we put them on the market and distribute them to the people in the care. There are of course different types of masks, which are also tested differently. There are the FFP2 masks and the surgical masks. For masks that do not meet the standard of the surgical medical mask, one can still apply a separate standard, a French standard, namely that of the so-called community masks, which still have a filtration rate of more than 70%. They can then be made available to other entities, not to people in care, but to people who, for example, come into contact with the general public. The government is also an employer, which masks can also be used for example for social inspection services and others that have wide contact with the public. That is our job as an employer and we carry it out that way. Mrs Depoorter asked a question about several dossiers in which things did not work out well. Since the creation of the Task Force, therefore, a systematic complaint has been lodged against traders who were unable to fulfil their contractual obligations to provide quality masks. Those complaints are now being dealt with by the court. In the meantime, three complaints were filed against three different companies, some of which are well known by you. In this way, when problems are identified, we fulfil our duty to take any legal action, not only to ensure that we get our money back, but also to ensure that those masks are no longer on the market and that those masks are no longer effectively distributed by suppliers. Of course, I will not elaborate on a judicial file. However, I have been through terrible things recently. If there is a problem, even if people act in good faith, there will be a clear judicial succession. We absolutely want to safeguard all our rights in this. I come to domestic production. Today I read that the Belgian company Ontex started its own production in September. Both in Wallonia, with Deltrian, and in Flanders, with Van Heurck and ECA, production will be started soon. At ECA and Van Heurck, 20 million surgical masks are ordered for the price of 22 cents each. This is cheaper than we paid in crisis time to a number of foreign suppliers; abroad we paid between 50 % and 200 % more. The price also depends on the volumes that can be delivered and can decrease to 19.3 cents each. This is an important aspect because Belgium is becoming much less dependent on abroad with its own production. There are also discussions at European level on cooperation. In times of crisis it is important to have easier access to certain medical materials. They can then be used more easily and are of sufficient quality for the care providers. There was also a question about the task force "Data & Technology against Corona" and more specifically the contact investigation. In the meantime, an interfederal Test and Trace working group has been set up. The federal government is committed to supporting the Regions in conducting the tracing, which falls within their jurisdiction. We have created a common platform for call centers, which allows us to have a command unit. All technologies are identical. There is a corona-tracking.info website with more information on how the various call centers work. Everything is done, call centers are operational, staff are already working on it. This one has been trained in the various scripts that have been developed. Certainly, at the very beginning, some concerns and problems were encountered. They are now resolved. For example, there was a problem with e-forms. That is why we encourage laboratories and general practitioners to use this type of digitalisation in order to allow access to certain information as soon as possible. If, after a person has been tested, we have 24 hours, it is necessary to use these 24 hours to inform the various contacts of these people and not to wait three or four days before the information begins to flow through the call centers. As I just said, during last week's pilot phase, we encountered some problems and resolved them. For the time being, we are increasing the number of laboratories and the number of general practitioners who use this system to access patient information as quickly as possible, in order to insert them into the Sciensano database and follow up with call centres in order to inform all contacts. We are in the process of improving and optimising this system, but the system is now working for the people who are included in it. Various call centers are active and have already made contact tracing in recent days and weeks. Reporting will also be very important. It should be made clear how much time there is between all steps. So we can follow up on which people were contacted, who had to go into self-insulation and who was tested. The whole procedure is mentioned on the website just mentioned. It is of course important to involve the general practitioners in the follow-up, to find out how the people keep themselves under the self-insulation. As the various regional ministers have said, we are, of course, counting on the public spirit of the people to abide by it. So we can cut the wires that connect people as quickly as possible. The quarantine certificate will be prescribed by a general practitioner or health inspector. We are currently considering whether this could be done even faster. There was also a question about export licences. I was rather surprised that a quality newspaper writes such a thing without a serious check of the story. What's the situation? For some time now, Liège has been designated by the WHO as one of the major airport hubs, one of the eight airports that can be used worldwide for the supply of medical equipment. We therefore have a large transit of medical materials, an important aspect because it allows us to have many medical equipment specifically intended for Belgium with those different flights. Belgium is a transit country, located in the centre of Europe and is a transit hub. We have also always said that we would let that transit through, which is the only way, since we are in a customs union. So we just have to let it through. We have also said that every time an export licence has to be issued, the competent department has left the companies to look at what it was about. In most cases, these were humanitarian deliveries, particularly small quantities that would not have had any impact on the delivery to Belgian hospitals or healthcare providers. If so, then we have always asked whether there was a possibility to order from them, to keep or get some of the materials in Belgium. And has always been made the agreement that there would be a concession for Belgium. For example, a number of companies have started production in Belgium and we have decreased that production. A number of companies have started to import additional materials through Belgium to make them available to medical staff in Belgium. For the record, there has never been any export abroad from the federal stock or from any government stock. The conclusion of the story in several newspapers that we have sent Belgian masks to Monaco is complete nonsense. That was also very clearly confirmed by the Monegascan Government. The corrections that appeared in the newspapers after one or two days leave little to be desired. Mr President, if I have any time left, I would like to look at the specific questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u52	There'll be 11 minutes left, but you'll have to split them up with Minister De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u53	Mr President, I will leave it at that. If there are any questions, I can answer them in the reply and give you some extra information.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u54	I would point out that those members who do not speak are considered absent and have until tomorrow morning to turn their oral question into a written question or to postpone it - otherwise it becomes irrelevant. Mrs Reuter, since the MR Group has in principle exhausted its speaking time, I should be grateful if you would be extremely brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u55	Mr President, thank you. I just wanted to ask Ms. De Block about the use of ultraviolet lamps to clean up horeca establishments. This system is used mainly in medical settings as part of sterilization. Is this technique considered effective and is there a risk of side effects? Is its use possible in horeca establishments, in order to allow them to welcome their customers again in a healthy environment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u56	Mrs De Block, I give you the floor for a maximum of 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u57	Mrs Gijbels asked if there was any information on who is or is not a care staff. There are several sources where that can be requested. In particular, there is the request form when the test is taken, but this is not always fully completed. In the case of tests carried out in the context of screening of residential care centres, there is also a report. That's where it's recorded separately. For the hospitalized persons there is a non-compulsory questionnaire. Then there is a barometer and a survey of the primary care providers. We know only of very accurate information about the tests carried out in all residential care centres at the request of the Communities. The tests for staff shall be kept separate. The tests of residents are included in Sciensano's report. Currently, there is also a screening of asymptomatic cases in residential care centres. There is also a study with the health professionals in the hospitals. This is an initiative of Sciensano in which PCR tests and serology look at the evolution of infections over the course of several months. In the course of next week, a proposal will also be drawn up, in consultation with hospitals, for the serology screening of asymptomatic staff in hospitals, with priority being given to those working on a COVID-19 unit, to know who has antibodies or who does not. We will be given more precise information on this. There were questions about the restart early this week of chronic and preventive health care and non-urgent care. During the period of the increase in the epidemiological curve, there had to be enough capacity for the corona patients. Non-essential care was thus postponed with the exception of oncology treatments, dialysis treatments, immunological treatments, all treatments that could not be interrupted. Clinics, general practitioners and specialists were in the best position to determine the urgency and needs of each patient. Co-morbidity was taken into account for patients, but the patient's mental state may also be a determining criterion, for example. However, it is up to the clinic to assess this in a concrete situation. Before 4 May, when non-COVID-19 medical activities began again, consultations took place with the advisory councils of different professions and with the professional associations of general practitioners and specialists. The FPS Public Health has communicated the conclusions and guidelines to the various healthcare sectors through its website. Lists by medical specialty have been drawn up by the Belgian Group of Professional Unions of Specialist Physicians. In collaboration with the Public Health FPS, pathologies and activities are classified by emergency category, on their elective nature, with an estimate of their burden of use, including intensive care. Under each list, it is pointed out that these are indicative lists. It remains the clinician's responsibility to take into account the specifics of the patient, the actual and anticipated capacity, and the hospital's safety environment. The flexibility of capacity conversion in the context of possible further outbreaks of VOCID-19 must be taken into account. A detailed response from the Office of the Superior Council of Specialist Physicians and General Practitioners exists, dated April 19, 2020. We have always provided a minimum reserve hospital capacity for the problem of the epidemic. In addition, hospitals will have to monitor the evolution of the epidemic on the basis of national daily figures and their local situation, and, if necessary, increase this capacity, once again in the short term. Let us hope that all precautionary and tracing measures will be able to avoid as much as possible a strong recovery of the epidemic. Continuous monitoring will remain very important. Guidelines to ensure the safety of procedures have been communicated. They will reassure patients in search of the necessary care from their general practitioner and specialist physicians, both for extra-hospital care and for hospital care. In April, the Public Health FPS contacted hospital and non-hospital professionals, referring to the website where the various Council opinions are published via the eHealth-box and through the Federal Councils of Health Professionals. I am responding to a question from Mrs Fonck. These are safety guidelines and classifications of dynamic pathologies. As I said, it is always possible to modify them because clinicians decide. Professional and scientific associations also communicate with their members who provide them with information. With regard to dentists, on 19 April 2020, the Dental Council issued an opinion on the subject, which is available on the FPS Public Health website. Following a risk analysis, the guidelines of the Superior Council of Health were confirmed and supplemented by a patient triage matrix based on risks, emergency categories and restart phase. The Federal Council for Kinesitherapy also delivered an opinion drawn up in April. A distinction is made between imperious treatments that cannot be deferred and non-imperious treatments. The various forms of practice of the profession are analysed, such as practice in the hospital, in a rehabilitation centre, in a residence for the disabled, in a private practice, solo or in a public practice. This opinion is also available on the FPS Public Health website. In their opinion, the various advice boards pointed out that each care provider has the skills and abilities to assess each patient and individual situation. The professional will assess the degree of need of the patient as well as the safety environment and the potential capacity. If so, the claimant will decide to postpone an intervention or refer the patient. I come to Mrs Depoorter's question about the extension of visits to people who have been in hospital for a long time. For those people, getting a visit is not a painful thing when they are old or if they have to stay in the hospital for a very long time. I share your concern about this, but the hospitals have decided to temporarily restrict the visit in order to avoid the spread of infections by patients or visitors in hospitals. We have asked the GEES to put forward proposals for a phased introduction of visit. There are now two exceptions, in particular for people in a palliative phase and for children under the age of 18, where both parents can be present. The term "parent" shall be limited to the couple who takes care of the child. Mrs Schlitz, with regard to the deconfinination plan for maternity wards, as for other medical specialties, the government has not made any recommendations for the organisation of care for pregnant women. However, the general recommendations for hospitals provide for the prohibition of visits and the postponement of non-essential treatments. In addition, hospitals also implement procedures to prevent nosocomial infections and to ensure the safety of staff and patients. There is obviously an exception for the partner of the woman who gave birth. Here too, it's up to her to decide who she's going to invite. Professional associations also provided advice on how best to organize care. There is no lower threshold for the practice of a caesarean section anywhere. The special measures have probably been harsh for pregnant women and we hope, like you, that everything will return to normal as soon as possible. However, when this return to normal can be expected will depend on the epidemiological situation. Since 4 May, measures in hospitals have been phased out. Mr De Caluwé asked which parameters were taken into account in the evaluation. The main indicators that Sciensano succeeds are absenteeism in government officials based on Medex figures and compared to previous years' figures, the incidence of influenza-like flu syndrome in the general population through general general practitioners' level practices, whose task has been extended, the number of newly reported COVID cases, the number of newly reported hospitalisations, the number of occupied beds on intensive care and the number of new deaths. Since Wednesday 6 May, trends in these indicators have been discussed at a press conference on the basis of a seven-day average. The threshold is always considered within the expert group that guides the exit strategy. Mrs Jiroflée asked a question about the recommendations of Kom op tegen Kanker. GEES is responsible for the analysis and recommendations on the exit strategy in a general sense. The aim of the Working Group is to develop a strategic vision for the period during which measures to combat the coronavirus will be relaxed, taking into account the economic and social aspects of this transitional period. In the event of a relaxation of measures, the safety of the population, and certainly of the cancer patients, is a central issue. At the beginning of the crisis, I stressed that proper treatment of cancer is essential. Therefore, at the start of the active phase on 13 March, I indicated that all non-urgent care should be postponed, but I stressed that ongoing treatments and essential medical assistance, such as cancer treatment, should remain absolutely guaranteed. In an administrative letter dated 16 April, this was laid down again by the administrations. The restart will be discussed in the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee, which meets every afternoon in the bosom of the FPS Public Health. A letter from the Committee to the hospitals on 30 April clarifies the modalities for the phased re-start from 4 May. It's the patient's focus. The capacity for COVID patients should be maintained. In consultation with professional associations and in consultation with the federal government, a framework on the need and urgency of care was developed per specialism. I have already said that this is a policy framework. Furthermore, any person who comes on consultation for day hospitalization may be accompanied by one person, preferably from the family or the permanent environment. This person has to wear his own mouth mask. If necessary, the hospital will provide him or her with a mouth mask for the visit. It is possible that a caregiver will accompany the patient to the hospital. The assistance of carers was always allowed, even during the crisis. People with cancer can rely on the facilities developed for the general population: medical consultation via online video, automatic extension of access to some medicines for which the intervention of an advisory doctor is necessary, and the possibility of using first-line psychological assistance on simple prescription of the general practitioner, regardless of the patient's age. Additional measures were also taken in the context of cancer. Without being exhaustive: the maximum age for uncofreeing, the period for breast reconstruction; the application file for (...); the admission of multidisciplinary oncological consultations, which can also be done via online video meetings, the temporary admission of hypofractionation in the radiation scheme of people with breast cancer. Then I come to the question about the transport of sick people. The 112 system is there for urgent medical assistance. It is not possible to use this for transport in the planned care. If a person needs to transport sick lying there, he must turn to the non-urgent transport of sick persons. As you know, that is not my competence but that of the Communities. Finally, I would like to say a few words about reimbursement. For health insurance services developed specifically in the context of COVID-19, patients were not required to pay brake charges. For other health insurance benefits, the existing rules on compensation and the patient's personal share continue to apply. Mrs Gijbels, you had a question about the reopening of schools. You must ask this question to the Länder, because they are going to take on this testing and tracing. Mrs. Dock, you had a question about the e-consults. Given the containment situation, we decided to allow both analog and digital telephone consultations. This is a good alternative in many cases, but it does not apply to all cases. The examples you provide are relevant. However, there are also many other examples where electronic consultation is quite equivalent to physical consultation. In other words, the framework should be correctly defined to determine when an electronic consultation should or should not be carried out. This is one of the actions that we will take as soon as possible. Let it be clear: a patient can never be forced to use an electronic consultation. The patient will always have the choice to request a physical consultation, even in a situation that would lend itself entirely to an electronic consultation. Mrs Depoter's question about remdesivir was also with that group. That is where the competence lies with the European Medicines Agency. In normal circumstances, all data supporting an application for a market authorisation should be submitted at the start of the assessment procedure. For remdesivir, the EEA already has an accelerated procedure, called rolling review, which started on 30 April 2020. Such a continuous evaluation means that the data from the clinical studies will gradually be submitted by the company and evaluated by the EEA, until there are enough to achieve a political risk-benefit balance and accelerate the granting of the market authorisation. The medicine has not yet been registered with the EEA. That is a condition for its traditional reimbursement. We are therefore awaiting the decision of the EEA. There are several possibilities for reimbursement. At that time, agreements should be made with the company, such as the early temporal access, the temporal reimbursement or the compassionate use program. Of course, the price will be an important factor in this. There's very little data on it at the moment. At present Gilead has announced that it will provide a stock of approximately 40 to 50 patients per week for Belgium. The company is also increasing its production capacity, given the high global demand. The FAGG maintains close contacts with Gilead Belgium in order to keep up to date. To provide sufficient remdesivir for Belgian patients, there are several randomised clinical trials in different patient populations, ranging from severely ill patients to patients with mild symptoms. It remains to be seen to what extent remdesivir will affect the target populations. Actually, it appears that the sooner treatment can be started after the patient's infection, the better treatment would work. This needs to be confirmed by well-founded clinical studies. There are the studies on Plaquenil. There are currently 7 COVID-19 studies registered in the EU Clinical Trials Register and 49 in ClinicalTrials.gov looking at the prophylactic use of hydroxychloroquine. An observational cohort study with patients who are already chronically treated with Plaquenil has not been initiated in Belgium, as far as my services know. It is also not a priority, as such data only provide additional information to approve an indication in support of data generated from one or more randomised, placebo-controlled clinical trials. An observational cohort study is also more subject to variable factors, which may also affect the prevalence of COVID-19 compared to a randomised, placebo-controlled study. It may be started afterwards to study retrospectively the effect of chronic use of Plaquenil on the prevalence and impact of COVID-19. Mr. Rigot, Ms. Rohonyi, the CORIMUNO study is a large multicentre study conducted in France that evaluates different types of treatment, both antiviral and immunomodulatory, against VOCID. Tocilizumab has been studied in patients with VOCID, in a medium or severe condition, in hospital and requiring additional oxygenation. The first results would be positive, but no official publication to date has presented these results in detail. In Belgium, there are several studies assessing the effect of tocilizumab in a similar patient population. There are now several studies, of which two are in Belgian hospitals, with only tocilizumab being studied in about 60 patients. We have to wait and see the results. I come to Mrs Van Hoof's question about rehabilitation. Mrs Depoorter, Mr Rigot, Mrs Taquin and Mr Bertels have asked a similar question. Patients should receive the rehabilitation they need and health insurance should intervene in rehabilitation programmes. There are indications, but these are not bound by any disease, and the existing rehabilitation protocols. There is now a shortage of capacity. The conditions are not subject to a disease, so we should not take action to include that pathology in the conventions. It has to be done according to certain criteria, and there are now only four centres that have been set up. I have asked the College of Medical Directors at the RIZIV to examine whether the rehabilitation programmes that are now being funded adequately meet the specific needs of corona patients and to propose measures if that is not enough. However, I have not yet received any advice. Then there was Mrs Creemers' question about the focus on mental health care in the GEES. I have already spoken with Mrs Vlieghe about the focus on mental health care in the exit strategy. The measures chosen and their impact also had to be considered from a behavioural point of view. The GEES consists of 10 experts appointed by the Prime Minister and no behavioral scientist is present, but they can obtain information themselves. Mrs. Vlieghe and her team are working on that right now. They are discussing with us what is being discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference and the additional measures we have taken. So I leave it to the GEES to see how they can best support the National Security Council on this issue. It is good that we are involved in this, so that they also know what was discussed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference. A report will be delivered by the end of May and the intention is to fill the blind spots. After all, there is no point in double-doing some cases and allowing blind spots to exist elsewhere. They will take into account everything that comes into this and the lessons that can be learned from the past period. Mrs Farih had a question, but was not present. We will give her that answer in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u58	Mrs Farih's questions were postponed to next week. So you can keep the answer until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u59	Mrs Schlitz, you are asking me about the risk of a shortage of sexual and reproductive health-related equipment and medicines. You are aware of the PharmaStatut application in which all unavailability of medicines must be notified. Via PharmaStatut, it is also possible to see which medicines were unavailable as of May 5 in the anatomical therapeutic chemical class. These are sexual hormones and modulators of genital function, the indication of which is female contraception. I have a whole list of eight drugs that have been unavailable for at least three months. I'll send the list for the report. We also see the alternatives available on the market, so that unavailable ones are not considered critical. With regard to condoms, we have not received any reports of any problems with the availability of the field. We consulted with professional associations of pharmacists, wholesalers and traders. Initial reactions indicate that they also did not receive feedback on condom shortages. I don't think they're made in Asia. Anyway, we still have enough. But they said that a survey of their members is planned to obtain confirmation. It is not possible to already guarantee that the reserves are sufficient for the next six months, as unforeseen events can occur at any time. But for the moment, there is no concern. As with everything else, the AFMPS monitors the situation. Mr Rigot had questions about the masks. In response to a question from Mr Rigot, I can say that the Crisis Centre was contacted by the Fédération francophone des souds de Belgique (FFSB), which advised him on various possibilities. For example, the person concerned can obtain oral masks partially composed of transparent plastic or a facial screen instead of a oral mask. However, it should be stressed that the recommendation to asymptomatic persons to wear a mouth mask is an additional measure within the deconfining period and should therefore not be considered as an isolated measure. In schools and institutions working with hearing impaired people, for example, one may consider not wearing masks during classes but rather using a plexiglas screen and maintaining more distance while ensuring good hand hygiene. Similarly, the wearing of the mask does not belong in households, except in cases where a member of the household is ill. The National Security Council has decided to impose the wearing of the mask in public transport and schools, thus maintaining the strategy defined for the deconfination. Thus, social distancing and hygiene measures take precedence and masking is compulsory only when it is not possible to guarantee social distancing. In the workplace, it is the responsibility of employers to ensure the health of their employees. Since telework remains the norm, wearing the mask is not mandatory everywhere in the workplace, provided that sufficient distance is maintained between colleagues. Official information is available on the website www.info-coronavirus.be and on a separate page accessible directly via the homepage (www.info-coronavirus.be/en/masque). Last week, illustrations and animations on the proper use of oral masks by citizens were broadcast continuously on social networks. A summary sheet containing sound advice on wearing, maintaining and storing masks at home has been published. It will be added to the website in the near future. A national information campaign was conducted by the Prime Minister's Chancellery about the added value of wearing the mask, its correct use and its maintenance. This information is also available from the 0800 telephone line. Various questions have been asked about Kawasaki's disease. Mrs Depoorter, you're talking about a peculiar syndrome, but if I read it correctly, I think you're talking about Kawasaki syndrome. In Europe, the annual incidence of this syndrome in children under 5 years of age is 1 in 6,500 to 20,500. This is a disease that was discovered some 20 years ago by a Japanese doctor and which occurs mainly in Asians. With us, the incidence is very small. The RAG had a consultation with the Belgian paediatric COVID-19 Task Force, which is dealing with the COVID-19-related diseases. They haven't figured out whether there's a connection yet, but it's definitely being followed up. The current scientific information on COVID-19 in children shows that few children are getting ill, but we do know that Kawasaki's disease is a viral disease. Pediatricians report the occurrence of this inflammatory disease in children. The RAG has put forward a proposal to adapt the questionnaire for hospitalised children so that information on this syndrome can also be requested. This will be further developed and approved by the RMG. Most recently, the heads of service of the Belgian centres provided an update on the situation. It is mainly the parents of children with congenital heart defects who are concerned. The teachers of Leuven, UCL, ULB and Ghent University say that children who are followed for cardiac malformation must follow the measures dictated by the authorities in the same way as other children. These children can therefore go to school as planned by the authorities, with the exception of those who suffer from severe heart failure, pulmonary hypertension or have undergone a cardiac transplant. These children have already been personally contacted by the respective cardiology services of the hospitals. The danger would be higher in children suffering from these types of conditions. There would be patients suffering from Kawasaki's disease, but that has not been proven. The disease is similar, but these are older children, from 10 to 16 years old. In that syndrome an echo of the heart is always taken and medication is given. There is currently no scientific article showing that measles mumps rubella vaccine might provide partial protection. For the article you refer to, Mrs Depoorter, there is no peer review yet and it has not yet been validated by the scientific community nor officially published. This is about a version in pre-publication that can already be consulted online. The study also concludes that additional studies are needed. Further scientific evidence is needed before further action can be taken. We reiterate the importance of continuing to ensure the primary vaccinations of children during the COOVID-19 crisis. Mrs Merckx had a question about the vaccine lab in Belgium. I have a very technical answer to that, which I will certainly deliver to her in writing. Mr De Caluwe asked about the consultation. On 7 April there was an informal consultation between health ministers on the European approach to vaccination. The Commission proposed to the Member States to develop a European vaccination plan. We have, of course, fully supported this, so that we would also have access to a vaccine. The proposal was also accepted by all the other Member States. It also stated that priority target groups should be identified. There will be a whole debate on this. I've already anticipated this, and I've asked for advice from the Supreme Health Council. Then we can put it next to each other. We believe that the number of people who are more sensitive on the basis of certain factors will be considered first. The care providers are also an important group. The order of precedence to be treated with the vaccine should also be developed. The final strategy will depend on the decisions in this area, on the further evolution of the pandemic and on the presence of any antibodies, which have now risen slightly to 6%, which is not enough. Let me turn to Mr Rigot's question about the additional costs. It is not allowed to recover the cost of protective equipment on the patient. A regulatory framework is being developed to prohibit this. At the same time, an initiative is being taken by RIZIV and the consultative bodies to develop a reimbursement system for these costs. In his letter of 30 April, the RMG President, together with the Public Health Office, the RIZIV and the FAGG, informed the healthcare professionals and their professional associations. This work is under way. There is a discussion on reimbursement within the structures of health care providers as well as health insurance. The measure must therefore be balanced and feasible. Mr Rigot, as far as the requisition of healthcare professionals is concerned, I have already expressed myself clearly and at length yesterday in committee on this subject. So I am sending you my three-page answer. Mr Rigot and Mrs Taquin, with regard to the psychological support of healthcare staff, in addition to the Medical Intervention Plan (MIP), the Risks & Manifestations Plan (PRIMA), the Health Intervention Plan (HIP) and the Psychosocial Intervention Plan (PSIP) activate and coordinate psychosocial actions in collective emergencies. For psychosocial care, a distinction is made in legislation between acute and post-acute missions. This means that the Federal Government is competent for the first phase and that the Communities are competent for the post-acute phase. Although the fight against the pandemic has not yet been completed, we are already in the post-acute phase. The federal government maintains its resources for the entire population, as well as for care providers, specialized and residential care providers and front-line psychologists. A large number of hospitals organized themselves very quickly to use their own psychological support capacity for their own staff who took care of the VOCID-19 crisis. But it is important to stress that it is the federated entities that deploy their post-acute plan, which is why the intention was expressed in the Interministerial Conference on Public Health to coordinate and strengthen appropriately the various initiatives aimed at ensuring the continuity of mental health care, building on the cooperation initiated in the previous legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u60	Minister, let me tell you that Question No. 55005713C by Ms. Marie-Colline Leroy is postponed. I must also let you know that your speaking time is, in principle, up. However, as we want the answers to all our questions, I give you a little more time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u61	Mr President, a number of the questions that have been asked to me are very technical, with many figures, such as Mrs Gijbels' question. We will send him in writing a numerical response concerning any previous contaminations. Mrs Sneppe, you had a question about protection measures in the event of the repatriation of compatriots at the airport. I don't watch TV and I don't know when the Belgo-Moroccans or Moroccan Belgians came back. In any case, masks are now mandatory at airports. I don't know if it was then. You say that they were not wearing masks, so that will be from before. The airlines also take strict measures: if there is not enough distance, people must wear masks. You asked what would happen to the repatriates. Well, they must be quarantined, like all people who come from abroad. What about a Belgian living in Spain? If he comes back for medical treatment, he'll be quarantined here for 14 days. After treatment, which can only happen after those 14 days, such a person must return to Spain in quarantine for 14 days. I think someone like that's going through a rough month. In any case, the rule of distance must be followed. In fact, there is enough information now that one has to wear a mask before entering one of the airports. The infoline about the coronavirus is controlled by the National Crisis Centre. That is a matter for Mr De Crem, but we have asked ourselves about it. The infoline answers both telephone calls and questions by mail. These questions are mainly answered on the basis of the FAQ, which is also available on the website. The purpose of the infoline is therefore to provide information without interpretation. In practice this is sometimes a bit difficult, because callers sometimes try to send the answer in the direction they would like, but the infoline adheres to the FAQ and confirms that, if requested, also by mail. In case of too complex questions, an employee of the infoline sometimes answers that the question is first passed on to an expert. If no telephone reply can be given, the caller will be called again later or the answer will be sent to the questioner's address. Ms Merckx, the quarantine certificate is available to the general practitioners on the website of the RIZIV. It is delivered to people who are fit for work but who have been in contact with an infected person, to an asymptomatic possibly infected patient, to persons with weakened immune systems and to workers who are asked to enter quarantine. The RAG issued an opinion on 5 May, which was discussed by the RMG on 8 May. The RMG's opinion was delivered to the RIZIV, which presented a proposal on the indications and reimbursement of the tests before the end of the week. At present there is still consultation with the representatives of the Committee of Clinical Biologists. We were promised that everything would be cleared by Friday. The certificate shall not apply to family members of a person at risk. They must comply with the general prevention measures. Measures are also being taken at company level. The serological tests can be used by the employers, via the platform, to find out how many of their employees are immune. They can be requested by all general practitioners for the people for whom it is appropriate. The RIZIV will only refund the tests in the given indications. In the case of an employer wishing to have all his employees tested, he must call on his occupational health service and bear the costs himself. Those tests will not be borne by the RIZIV. If an individual patient is thought to need a test and falls within the scope of the opinion, the test will be refunded. The labs are still discussing this. To answer Ms. Reuter's last question, ultraviolet lamps are used in hospitals, but under strict supervision. In this context, a health benefit is expected. For this reason, some limited side effects are acceptable. However, in public space, it is the opposite: no side effects can be tolerated. The effectiveness of the method must therefore be fully demonstrated. In an opinion to be published in the coming days, the Higher Council of Health considers that this system based on ultraviolet rays as well as disinfection tunnels are totally ineffective in the fight against the virus and are potentially dangerous. Under no circumstances will this type of facility replace access to a place to wash your hands in the right conditions, as well as increased distancing and disinfection measures in public places such as those in the Horeca – whether indoors or outdoors. The Public Health FPS will contact the Horeca Federation, Brussels Expo, Carrefour and all the organizations that have announced that they want to use this mechanism. As soon as the opinion of the Higher Council of Health has come to me, Mrs. Reuter, I can send you the link. Mrs Merckx's last question dealt with the switching centres. There are currently 6 centres in Flanders and 2 in Wallonia. So far, 131 people have been admitted, as early as May 18. Only 7 persons were referred by an emergency service and 3 directly by a triage centre. At the moment there are 47 people left. Most of the people who left the center returned home or to their families; 15 people returned to a residential care center; 6 people had to return to a hospital. The departed subjects remained between 1 and 34 days, with an average duration of 11 days. The decision to open or close new switching centres remains the responsibility of the Länder. These centres may be used for other purposes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u62	Mr President, I would like to thank both ministers for their answers. I remain behind with a few reservations and questions, including about the tests at the health care providers. I cannot get the impression that we are late in reporting on this. It is also difficult to find where the data are available. I understand that Sciensano is in the process of studying. I look forward very much to the results of that. I had put a question about the possible previous infections in Belgium. I understand that there will be a written reply, which I look forward to. I would also like to take this opportunity to ask you to look at the answers to the other written questions. After all, a number of questions have been tabled by our group. Specifically about the dentists, I heard from Minister De Backer that 21,000 FFP2 masks were distributed among the dentists. The problem is, however, that these masks have initially gone to emergency practice, while the other practices are now starting to start up, primarily with the necessary treatments. It appears to be very difficult to get FFP2 masks now. The production of aerosols is not uncommon. Aerosols are produced for each treatment requiring drilling or tartar removal. Sciensano points out that after each production of aerosol the mask must be discarded, which means that one day a lot of masks will be removed. I would therefore urge you to consider whether the dentists are not on the list of priority care providers. After all, I do not immediately find them on the list. That's it for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u63	Mr President, Minister, Minister, I am very disappointed by the answers that have not been given for a great deal. The questions were mainly about the healthcare sector. I certainly don't think that's correct on Nursing Day. I hope you will come back to this in the second round. Two weeks ago, you did provide answers. At that time, you gave an update on the distribution key for the billion euro allocated to hospitals for advances. You also said that a structural approach was being worked on. I asked you for an update now. Unless I missed it, but I remained loyally behind my screen, I didn't get an answer. As far as home care is concerned, you said two weeks ago that a concession was forthcoming. There was indeed no nomenclature number at the time. Today that is still not the case, unless you want to smoke white. That would be very nice for this day of nursing. Since you are so late with this, a second concern is what will happen to the costs that have been incurred in recent months. What kind of compensation and support do you provide for this? Finally, as regards the protective equipment, and especially the gloves, you gave two weeks ago as a solution that the chief officer had to be contacted. Just because he didn't give these two weeks at home doesn't mean I'm down. Minister De Block, you did answer my question about the face shields versus the fabric masks, but you just answered the situation as it is today. Yes, the government provides fabrics mouth masks and yes, a face shield can be more effective and is also used, for example in education. I already knew all that. My question was why no face shields were chosen for the entire population. The federal government has opted for fabric masks and, as has been said, it could not keep that promise, so that local authorities now have to take this on. There must be a filter for it, there must be certain material for it, but worse is that substances only protect mouth masks and release the eyes. I had put my question briefly, but the proposed version of my question contains much more detailed information on the benefits of face shields, while the costs are very limited. I repeat my question. Why wasn't a face shield chosen? I am not asking who is wearing a face shield today and what is happening today with the fabric masks and who is wearing one or not. I ask why no choice was made, in accordance with the JAMA article that has been scientifically substantiated, to protect our population with face shields instead of with fabric mouth masks? I hope to get an answer to that in the second round.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u64	Madam and Minister, I will briefly summarise my questions on the masks. So you haven't gotten Mahmut Öz's money back yet. As far as exports are concerned, I have with me the European Commission's file on export licences. In one week, between 26 April and 3 May, 150,000 mouth masks, 18,000 protective suits and 4,000 glasses were shipped from Belgium. That is to say 21,000 mouth masks a day, 2,500 protective suits a day and 570 protective glasses a day, while our general practitioners were naked in the same week when they took tests in suspected COVID-19 patients. I really don't understand why you didn't confiscate those products, like you did with the chloroquine. No export licence has been refused. I find that very special. What bothers me is the deal with Comeos. You had a deal with the pharmacists: for 5 cents a day they would distribute the mouth masks. They would give a pharmaceutical, individual advice, they would register and phase. There were 35 million mouth masks available at Comeos, with a purchase price of 53 cents. So you could have had people bridge that first exit period with 3 surgical mouth masks for 1.65 euros per patient. I don't understand why at a time when public health is paramount to everything...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u65	Mrs. Depoorter, your time is up. Can you finish?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u66	... have not given preference to public health and why you have not called on the pharmacists to do so. Finally, Madam Minister, why was the strategic stock not discussed at the Council of Ministers and at its core?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u67	Mr Minister, I would like to talk about the discrepancy between what the healthcare sector indicates to needs and what you are contrasting. That system is not yet waterproof and needs to be refined. I therefore propose that we continue to follow up this week after week. It would be useful if there were a hotline where this could also be followed, as it was said in committee two weeks ago. As far as Comeos and the pharmacists are concerned, I am still hungry about how the population should wear that mask correctly. I see that there are currently mass masks being made and bought, but that a lot of people wear that mask wrongly. I know that Minister De Block has often communicated about this and it was also the reason why she postponed the obligation to wear a mouth mask for so long. On public transport, I see a lot of people wearing their mouth masks wrong. If they are sold through the grocery stores and they are no longer sold exclusively through the pharmacies, then there is definitely a need to catch up in the field of communication. Now we are risking more infections due to the misuse of the mouth masks because, so to speak, prevention is not sold. As far as the filters are concerned, I continue to find it very strange that these filters were never intended to be compatible with the oral masks that are distributed. When these filters are distributed, I hope they communicate very well how to use them. I can see it happening that those mouth masks are being held on the outside, which is a great deal of risk. When these filters arrive at the population, explain very well how to use them. Mental health care must be provided. I have absolutely great confidence in Professor Vlieghe and I hope that you will continue to stress the need for care for those who care during the interministerial consultation. I really hold my heart for the period of late May, beginning of June, if the care sector can breathe just as relieved before the next wave arrives. I'm absolutely holding my heart for the psychological impact that's coming. Please don't forget them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u68	Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. Mr De Backer, I understand your proposal with regard to equipment distribution devices. It is imperative not to fall back on the same lines as we experienced at the beginning of March. In doing so, if you have to realize that there are concerns on the ground and that the process that has been put in place is not optimal, you still have time to adapt it because the crisis will not be over tomorrow. But first of all, the most important thing is to properly equip the first line. I have taken note of your proposal to coordinate with the Regions and the first line in this distribution. In any case, you should know that the expectation is very strong. As far as serological tests are concerned, you said that the RMG, together with INAMI, will give its opinion on Friday, if I understand correctly. The error that has already been made in promising an immediate capacity of 10,000 tests should not be repeated, whereas it took three weeks to use it because the RMG criteria were not appropriate. Let's not repeat this mistake and let's go very quickly! If these tests exist well, let us proceed and make them available with clear criteria accepted and recognized by all! Finally, with regard to masks, I will not repeat what my colleague Barbara Creemers said. The masks ordered by the Defense are supposed to arrive on May 24th. However, a whole range of citizens have already made their own masks. They're going to receive a home filter that looks like a table set, wondering what it's all about. There is no information anywhere on how to use these filters, which are hydrophobic, have a certain cost and have been paid with public money. People need to know clearly how to use it; just a simple tutorial. It is really necessary to move forward on this because it becomes ridiculous!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u69	Madam Minister, thank you for the specific answers you have given me. I understand that there is some autonomy of hospitals from the protocols put in place. Of course, the fight against VOCID-19 will remain a priority, but what I am asking for is, above all, that there is proportionality in our actions. From the moment we untie the Cora, where we can go to Primark without a mask, I think it is still possible to envisage protocols for women who give birth that are less invasive and allow them to spend this moment in the least difficult way possible. All the returns from the field tell me that wearing the mask during a delivery is terrible. I ask you to send the request to the Risk Assessment Group to assess how you could get back to normal as soon as possible with regard to childbirth and maternity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u70	Mr President, the meeting lasted three hours, during which we tried to get answers to questions limited to two minutes. It's not obvious. Exercise is complex for everyone. Nevertheless, I see an indisputable gap and even a clear gap between the elements of response and the reality lived or perhaps felt on the ground. I am thinking of the situation of the general practitioners who shouted at the lack of information. Perhaps it is a communication problem, but the same thing happened yesterday in another committee on the issues of nurses, requisitioning and delegation of acts. There is a real concern for communication and a clear gap between what is being said here and what is happening on the ground. Then some answers are not provided. There is probably no emergency regarding tracker dogs, but I hope to get an answer at least in writing. Finally, I would like to say that the answers we get are often: "It's coming"; "It's going to happen"; "Discussions are under way"; "The circulars are under consideration"; "The directives are in preparation". Reimbursements for serological tests appear to me to be something of the utmost importance. You are telling me that this reimbursement will take place on very precise criteria and indications, but we do not yet know them. You don't deliver them. However, it seems to me that these measures were among the preconditions and criteria for deconfining. There is therefore an urgent need. The criteria must be determined. There is an urgent need to move forward. As far as tracing is concerned, the responsibility for monitoring and call centres lies with the federated entities, but nevertheless, things will be done upstream. This is both the encoding of all this data and the way in which the test information is delivered quickly, so that people can be contacted as quickly as possible. Are we going to test all the people who have been in contact with the contaminated people who are called by call center? I think we need to get an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u71	Mr President, I am pleased to have heard Mrs Depoorter ask similar questions to my own, which allowed me to get some answers. Indeed, I feel like I never hear my name in the answers to the questions. I won't go back to hospital cash flow problems, but I want to go back to those famous masks sold in supermarkets. Clearly, Dominique Michel has been very successful in lobbying. Last Thursday, the Prime Minister told me that there was no longer a shortage of masks because we had a strategic stock of 40 million masks. However, as we have pointed out in this committee, some dentists are still not properly equipped, and today we find millions of masks made by large distribution and sold at a derisory price, while healthcare workers still lack protection. It is therefore a new slap that this government has imposed on pharmacists, who have played an essential advisory role since the beginning of the crisis and who have been forced to build up stocks whose sale has been regulated for several weeks. I would add to that that the control of the masks in question is more than random.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u72	Thank you. I was hoping for clear answers but I still remain on my hunger for many points: the distribution and control of filters – I am not convinced by this response that has evolved over time – the reasons for wearing the mask in transport and not in shops when they are heavily occupied, dentists. For the latter, I welcome the fact that the consultation is under way, but I regret that you do not condemn these practices, which are designed to make patients bear the cost. Patients have had to postpone health needs due to coronavirus for a long time and they will now have to postpone care because they cannot afford to pay for it. This is not acceptable, it must change. We need management, consultation, and the patient cannot be the turkey of the farce. For the nursing staff, you say we are in a post-critical, post-acute situation. But this morning the experts have been clear, we have to prepare for a tsunami for the healthcare staff! It is now that we must act and I do not believe that we are in a post-acute situation. The question is not who should take charge today and say, "It's not me, it's the other." What caregivers want is an answer! Will their expectations and needs be considered? Yes or no? Health care is the federal responsibility, it's important. It's time to act! Minister, one mistake is human, but repeated mistakes become decisions!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u73	I thank both ministers for the questions. Some questions were not answered or not answered in full. Minister De Backer, you said that in the distribution of protective equipment there are lists of the professions. I think the osteopath group has forgotten. I've been informed they haven't received any protective equipment yet. Perhaps you should add that group to the list or check that the information is correct. I also had a question about the export licences. Is it possible to provide me with a list of the recipients and the companies that were granted permits, because I did not receive an answer? That would also clarify the situation. People are entitled to clarity, especially in the story of the mouth masks, which has become a serious debacle. Minister, you claim with your hand on your heart that nothing has gone wrong. I think it's really necessary to clarify things. So can you give the recipients and the companies that received the permits? Maybe you can also tell me which material was in transit. That would make sense. There would be no more cowboy stories. Minister De Block, I didn't get an answer to the question of how many infections have occurred through the airports since the lockdown. Perhaps you could tell me in writing? I also hope to get an answer to my question on essential movements and their control at airports. This time I did get a satisfactory answer to my question about the corona phone. The phones and the e-mails will indeed be answered. At the same time, I was talking about a specific case. Can the answer given on the phone also be confirmed in writing for the caller, who can then print that answer and take it as a statement, if he is stopped by the law enforcement services? Furthermore, if I understand you correctly, the student with an autoimmune disease should be quarantined for a month each time. I don't know how many times he has to come here for his therapy. Either he has to stay here, or he has to stay in Spain. Does that apply to anyone who comes from abroad and wants to go back? Or is that because he's from a high-risk area? Or does it have to do with his autoimmune disease? I would have liked to have had some clarification on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u74	Thank you for the answers regarding the mouth masks. So the population can turn to the pharmacist, who is the first line and closest to the people. This is better for everyone, especially for those who are vulnerable or who belong to a risk group. Let us not forget that a mask that is worn in an incorrect manner is useless and can even be dangerous. As far as the generalists are concerned, if your answers are a priori reassuring, I am struck by the contrast with what comes to us from the ground. You've partly answered about dental protection equipment, but I haven't heard you say anything about dermatologists. I recall that there is a form of VOCID symptom that is dermatological. They must not be forgotten. As far as the e-consultation is concerned, I fully agree with you, Madam Secretary. Of course, we must ensure that the history is carried out correctly, but we can learn something from every crisis. If there is an interest in e-consultations, we certainly need to think about it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u75	Mr President, I would like to thank the Ministers for their answers to my questions. I don't have a supplement to ask for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u76	Mrs Merckx, you have two minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u77	Mr President, just in relation to time. When we get home, we won't see the counter. I do not know whether it is technically possible to show us how long we have been talking. As far as the quarantine certificate is concerned, I do not know whether it is possible for Mrs De Block to send me her reply in writing. I didn't quite get it. There was also a refund of a certificate. That is certainly completely new and something that administratively has an important implication. I do not know whether that is possible, but I would like to hear that, because some of the answers have already been given orally. Minister, with regard to the contracts with the labs, you have given some explanation that a PCR test at the consortium will cost 25 to 28 euros per test. Is it possible to look into that contract? How much does that cost for a regular lab and what exactly is in that contract that's been signed for six months? We have also learned that we will pay 19 to 22 cents per mouth mask produced in Belgium. I find it strange that the mouth masks in the grocery stores are sold for less than 1 euro. Why wasn't there a maximum price for that? Then no profit would be made, although we will pay 20 cents for one mask. That's 80 cents difference. Yet you say that Comeos makes no profit on that. I don't really know if I should believe that. Do you know how many mouth masks have been sold by Comeos to this day? You say those 35 million masks were never in Belgium. That is strange, because there have been a lot of masks on the market.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u78	Your time is up, Mrs Merckx. You're gonna have to wrap up now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u79	Then I'll finish up here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u80	I realize that a two-minute speaking limit is sometimes difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u81	Mr President, I will do my best to keep to the speaking time. I thank the ministers for their answers. The time is indeed short to replicate all the answers. In general, however, I have received an answer to my questions. I notice that some Members are very focused on the problem of mouth masks, although very concentrated on some specific cases, while there is some blindness for other situations. I am referring here to MEPs who want to be in the VTM news with the delivery of mouth masks, but when it turns out that there are certain problems with that supplier, they no longer go forward, but they constantly focus on other problems that have arisen. It is true that all the problems must be solved and that money must be repaid, but it would be of some decency to deal with all the mistakes in deliveries in the same way. I just wanted to say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u82	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I do not understand why the agreement with the pharmacists was not further developed. The professional guidance for wearing a mouth mask is now totally lacking. I keep thinking it's a really weird deal. Madam Minister, with regard to the dental supplement, I understand that you have written a letter and that we are now examining who is to charge it. Frankly, I find it scandalous that up to EUR 50 extra is charged as a corona supplement. In other sectors of medicine we do not find such a supplement at all. I think it's a long way to go. If the patient has to pay for this in one way or another, either directly or through the RIZIV, we do not think this is possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u83	Mr President, on the rehabilitation routes, I understand that we still have to wait for the advice of the College of Medical Directors. We will have to do that. Madam Minister, I have not heard anything in your answers about the health premium and your own words about submitting the dossier to the Inter-Ministerial Conference on your own proposal. Does this mean that the proposal has been completely written off and that the IMC has not continued or reached agreement, which will be closer to the truth? I didn't hear anything about that. Perhaps you could explain this in a few words. The most important thing is that we get structural funding. That's much more important than the care premium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u84	Mr President, Madam Minister, since we still have nine seconds, I would like to add that it is very unfortunate that you have the recommendation No. 8, which is done by Kom op tegen Kanker as a result of the sick transport, does not succeed. After all, this is a fairly simple follow-up. I wonder why that should be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u85	Mr President, I thank the two ministers for their answers. I would have a few comments, reflections and proposals. First of all, I would like to say that tracing, testing and isolating carriers is at the heart of the success of this deconfinity and that we are not there. We're not there for testing since we still don't have a result in 24 hours, which must be guaranteed to be quick. We are not there in terms of tracing that skates a lot to get in place while it is crucial. We're not in serology either. I hear you're coming at the end of the week with recommendations, guidelines and refunds. Let us remember, however, that all these elements were indispensable prerequisites before the deconfination! Now we're trying to catch up. We've got to hit the accelerator again. In operational components, including with the consortium to have the results in 24 hours, this is still not the case. I would also like to insist that general practitioners receive all the tests from carriers and their contacts because it is essential that general practitioners do this persuasion work with positive or suspect people so that they are isolated. Again, I insist that any collector of a sample should wear an FFP2 mask. I do not understand why Sciensano has completely amended his directive on this matter by accepting that a surgical mask is now sufficient. For dentists, it is good to give a figure of 21,000 FFP2 masks, but at the same time, I find in the field that those who have taken care of themselves do not have one. When you do a milling, minister, there's an aerosol on your own, and so you're on your own in a high exposure. Minister, you talked about the children who were at risk. In particular, you mentioned transplantees, but all children with primary immunosuppression are at risk, as are children with chronic illnesses. It is important for families and children to be clear about the resumption of schools and nurseries. These children must truly continue to be protected and belled. On their behalf, I would be grateful if you would have complete instructions. This is essential for these children and their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u86	Madam and Mr Ministers, thank you for your answers. I have to react first of all to the sale of masks in supermarkets. I understand that the orders and deliveries of masks take into account the recommendations of the Risk Management Group. Except that, at the same time, surgical masks are being sold in supermarkets, while since the beginning of the crisis it has been known that surgical masks must be reserved for healthcare staff or even front-line actors. It seems to me that there is a big problem of consistency with this. You justify having preferred supermarkets to pharmacists for the sale of these masks by the fact that it was a matter of guaranteeing the sale of these masks to as many people as possible. However, it is not only enough to ensure the sale of these masks; it is also necessary to ensure that the citizen is properly informed and advised about the wearing of the mask, but also about its maintenance. In this case, pharmacists could have helped us with their great expertise. With regard to the resumption of non-COVID activities in hospitals, I am pleased to hear you say that cancer treatment is a priority. However, in practice, oncologists confirm that their services have been deserted during confinement, and that this is still the case today. It is therefore necessary to inform and reassure patients that they are still able to continue their treatment. I didn't hear you either on the claims made by the Caregiver Movement Take Care of Care. These are legitimate claims to be heard. I also hear that psychosocial services are available to them. That's very good, but I'm really dubious about saying that the federal government would no longer have jurisdiction over these services, that it is now the Regions, as we are just beginning deconfination. I find this rather curious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u87	Mrs. Rohonyi, thank you for closing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u88	I also do not understand the absence of an obligation to wear the mask in the shops. We're leaving the traders on their own. The same applies to the communes: it is artistic blur, it is the scramble. I think it would be more than time to have real coherence in the management of this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u89	Madam and Mr Ministers, if we want to close our business at 5:30 p.m., I can only give each of you a speaking time of 7 to 8 minutes rather than 10 minutes as originally planned so that the members who wish to do so can reply again, even if it is for a very short period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u90	Mr. Chair, with respect to the numbers for testing in communities, Sciensano reports every day. You can find on the Sciensano website the results of tests related to staff and residents of nursing homes for example. In addition, I have already explained the follow-up that will be reserved for communities. There was another question about the face shields. I just got the article. It is a viewpoint in JAMA and therefore not necessarily scientifically substantiated. The author states that clinical studies have yet to be carried out. The article dates from 29 or 30 April. The choice of mouth masks seems logical to me at the moment. Mrs Depoorter, you have given the figures for the export licences. If you want details, this is under the authority of Minister Muylle. So you can ask her a question about the lists. I would very much like to say that these are export licences that are humanitarianly substantiated. In the week in which the export licences were issued, we distributed more than 3 million masks, 250,000 aprons and 60,000 glasses among the triage centres and general practitioners, plus another 1.5 million surgical masks specifically for the general practitioners. These figures do not go against the figures you just mentioned. It is also absolutely important that we continue to carry out a quality check on everything we deliver. That is essential, because we have seen that there are a lot of parties on the market who are trying to use the situation not to respect certain quality standards. It is important to keep saying that we have always consulted the domes for the general practitioners. It is the domes that have asked to be allowed to communicate with their members themselves. That makes sense, too. If there's any improvement points there, I'd love to hear them. We also constantly consult with the clinical labs, the general practitioners and many other groups. We are also always trying to find solutions together. Yeah, something goes wrong sometimes, but we always manage to solve things together. We also saw this last week with regard to this contact study, where we made certain adjustments during the start-up phase, in consultation with the general practitioners and the regions. That goes on like that. Mrs Fonck, we must indeed receive the results of the test within 24 hours. The central platform indicated that 95% of the results were available within this time frame or 36 hours later. So the rhythm seems good to me. For clinical laboratories, I think they should be based on a new system based on the data reported by Sciensano. We are thinking about improving the process. You are right: in case of a positive test, the general practitioner must take care of the follow-up, while the contact tracing must start. To this end, we remain in close contact with the Regions within the Inter-federal Committee. By the end of the week, 95% of labs and general practitioners will be included in the system. I agree with you that this is essential. Every day, we work with the Regions to accomplish this immense effort. In my opinion, we have made good progress, especially in testing. Second, the RMG has already given its opinion on 8 May. Now we are working on a very clear communication for general practitioners, so that they know how to use PCR and serological tests. That seems essential to me. Finally, for masks and Comeos, the RMG gave its opinion on their use in medical settings. Several priorities need to be met. Indeed, some professions are not included because the RMG felt that they could make other decisions. Second, the GEES requested that the government's decision of March 23 be reconsidered in order to be able to redistribute surgical masks in shops. We have therefore followed this recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u91	Mrs Van Camp, you asked about the exact nomenclature number and the amount to compensate for additional costs in home care. I am told that this is in the pipeline: it will be published at the end of this week or at the latest next week. As you know, the development of a nomenclature number at the RIZIV would otherwise take at least six months. So they have worked very hard on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u92	Does that also apply with retroactive effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u93	I still have to ask. I asked my advisor, but she didn't know that either. As far as the face shields are concerned, we are following the advice given to us. As Minister De Backer said, that's not really about a study. Mrs Fonck, you question Sciensano's opinion for the testing and for the definition box. It's obviously your right, but you have to know that Sciensano is an independent scientific institute. I cannot therefore ask Sciensano to change his mind. Sometimes he changes his opinion along the way. The definition box has been modified several times since the initial definition box.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u94	Mrs. Rohonyi asked me a question about the bracelet. According to an article I have read about this, this type of bracelet is sold at a price of 40 euros and is part of a pilot project implemented by a commercial company, so that it is not yet appropriate to buy it. You heard me right, Mr Bertels. There was an agreement on the care premium in the nuclear cabinet, what it would look like and to which people in the care that could be given, but there are also people in the care that fall within the competence of the Länder. That meeting's still going on. So there is no agreement on this. You heard me right. Mrs Tillieux, I did not give the oral answers concerning dogs. Indeed, this response was made by ERMG Animal. It was a four-page notice given by the risk assessment group VOCID-19 Animal, which was formed following the detection of a cat carrying the virus. Mrs. Sneppe, you asked if a boat was a second stay. That's an interesting question. I don't know. It is not yet on the agenda, but I will take it with me to the GEES. One always talks about apartments, holiday homes, chalets, mobile homes and ordinary caravans as a second stay, but I hadn't thought about a boat myself. If one can sleep in it, I assume it can be considered a second stay. I have to ask. The 14-day quarantine is the same everywhere. I have read that there is now a 14-day quarantine in the UK when one comes by plane, but not when one comes with the Eurostar. I don't understand. I'm sure the Prime Minister has his reasons. The 14 day quarantine applies in Spain, France and all European countries. I based myself on that. Isn't it better to stay there? Or to come here and go into quarantine and not go back. Mr Rigot, you probably didn't listen well. I said that it is forbidden to charge extra fees for the equipment. There you go. I made it clear. No materials can be charged, that cannot be done. That is why consultations have been held on this subject. Mrs Jiroflée, we have gone so far as to reimburse patients for all costs of interhospital transport with COVID-19 cars. In the case of secondary transport for other patients, that is something for the Communities. I have read that, among other things, Minister Beke is working on a similar arrangement with a lump sum like ours. Mrs Rohonyi, I take the recommendations of Take Care of Care very seriously. A meeting has already been scheduled with the representatives of this group this week.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u95	I note that Mrs Van Hoof is no longer present, while she was just there. She might have another reply that she can send informally via e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u96	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof has said through the chat that she no longer wishes to reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u97	Then I propose a very short second reply of three minutes, two minutes and one minute depending on the size of the fraction. For example, that's a minute for every N-VA speaker. Mrs Gijbels, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u98	Madam Minister, as a dentist, I would like to repeat briefly the remark that some colleagues have charged a corona supplement. I fully agree that the patient should not suffer from the higher protection measures that are now needed. At the same time, we need to consider whether the nomenclature in force is still in line with today's dental practice. There is an urgent need to set the cost of treatment so that personal protective measures are included. At the same time, we will have to focus on preventive treatments so that savings can be achieved in the longer term.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u99	Madam Minister, thank you for the answers that have been given. Apparently they come up with bits and pieces. As far as home care is concerned, it's clear. If I understand correctly, there will be a nomenclature number next week. I would point out that we would like to see the application with retroactive effect. I understand that you are examining the matter, and that is fine with us. As far as protective equipment is concerned, you have acknowledged that there is still work to be done, and that is regrettable. I have still not received an answer to the question concerning the compensation to the care staff in a care institution and the allowances to the health care institutions themselves. You have not yet outlined the extent to which EUR 1 billion will be allocated, the key to be used, the structural funds released and how they will be allocated. As far as the face shield is concerned, you respond to the advice of the National Security Council. I would urge you to ask why you didn't choose face shields. We can then discuss this opinion later, if you do not have an opinion on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u100	Mr President, I will repeat Mr De Caluwe's reply, because apparently he is the Minister's spokesman. Mr De Caluwe, do you know what decency is? Decent is when a member of the opposition offers a solution to a problem that continues to drag on, recognising that solution. That's just going with it. I really have no problem giving ministers their daily media moments, but apparently that is a big problem. Do you know what decency is? That is not a prohibition for a supplier to be in contact with that Member of Parliament. Indeed, I was not involved in the second delivery, because the supplier was afraid that otherwise he would not be selected. I have heard that no money has been lost because of the second delivery, which has gone wrong. That is something other than the 3.5 million still parked in Mr Öz's office. Madam Secretary, in the context of mouth masks you acted too late, destroyed the strategic stock and not replenished it. That's negligence. You have kept a lot of suppliers waiting, you haven't even answered suppliers who had signed up, and you haven't approved others. In the Netherlands samples of every order placed have been requested. That was not considered necessary in Belgium. You have made deals with the grocery stores, much rather than protecting your care providers, and you have not been able to protect your citizens, despite the fact that you had six ministers who were competent. That's hallucinating. I really have no lessons to learn in decency from your group, Mr De Caluwe.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u101	Mrs Hennuy has now left and stated that she does not wish to reply, but perhaps Mrs Creemers will.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u102	Mr President, it was indeed agreed that I would reply. Basically, I don't have any extra points to make. My points about 'care for those who care' and, not to mention, to ensure very good communication about the mouth masks and how to use them, were already made during the first round of replies. So I will fulfill our promise yesterday, to make up for and make up for time, and give the extra minutes to the group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u103	Thanks for the answers I got. Mr De Backer, I do not see what other measures osteopaths can take to protect themselves with protective material. Maybe you should try explaining that next time. The list of export licences will indeed be requested from Mrs Muylle. For the rest, I can be reasonably satisfied with the answers I received today. I hope that will remain so in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u104	If I followed correctly, I think the minister talked about tracking dogs and four pages of answers. I would like to thank her for these answers. I recall that I asked very recently about the planning centres and access to the voluntary termination of pregnancy (IVG). Unfortunately, I have not received an answer to this question and will therefore be happy to receive any information you may have in this regard. Finally, I'm obviously surprised that we still don't know if we're going to test people who have been contacted by call centers and who were in contact with people with coronavirus. In my view, this is an essential question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u105	Yes, when these people are in an area at risk, they will obviously be tested. Otherwise, there is no point in tracking. As far as family planning centres are concerned, I did not reply because I had already sent this answer to the secretariat for the same question asked by Mrs Rohonyi. But we'll send it to you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u106	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u107	Minister, Minister, allow me first of all to ask you to excuse Mr.Rigot, who will not intervene in reply because he was lucky enough to get answers to all of his questions. As far as I am concerned, it must be noted that I have not obtained more answers as to the failing cash flow of hospitals. In addition, Minister, after hearing your little supplementary explanation about the masks sold in the large distribution, I am still not convinced. As you said, the RMG decided that some professions could not yet receive masks. However, this has been repeated today, dentists and other professions are cruelly lacking masks while the network of large distribution has built up stocks with millions of masks for weeks in order to be able to sell them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u108	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u109	Don't say no!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u110	Dentists have FFP2. We're not distributing FFP2s! You're mixing it up!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u111	When I spoke to the Prime Minister on Thursday, we were told that there was no shortage anywhere and we know that it is still failing. If there are people who are at risk of mixing, it is the citizens who go to the shops. As I said, pharmacists have an advisory role. In large distribution, people buy masks but do not know how to position them and think they are protected when they are not. I find that this government has once again slapped pharmacists who have an exemplary role since the beginning of this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u112	Is Mrs. Taquin still with us?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u113	Mr President, as before, I am always well present, but I have nothing to add. I thank the Ministers for having answered all my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u114	Mr President, I do not know whether I can take advantage of Mrs Creemers' minute, since she said that she was giving her time to speak. Unfortunately, I wasn't very lucky the second time. None of the questions I rested received an answer. I have the same syndrome that Mr. Prévot is currently suffering. Sometimes I also wonder how the kern+10 is going on Saturday. I see that once we're here in committee, we see...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u115	It's going very well, Mrs. Merckx. There's nothing to worry about. The hours spent together on Saturdays are excellent!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u116	I am surprised because it seems that no Member is in agreement with the royal decrees you take. Since you have just answered this question, I will ask such questions again. Minister, can you provide me with a written response to the quarantine certificate? Mr. De Backer, you keep turning around the pot. Can we, yes or no, see the contract you entered into with the labs? The same applies to the delivery of masks. Is it credible to say that we can buy a 20 cent mask, while so-called supermarkets don't make a profit on these masks? That's what you said earlier. I don't think that's credible. And what about the number of surgical masks sold? Even today, in some services, people are asked not to wear surgical masks for more than four hours, while they are on sale in supermarkets.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u117	The sp.a. members having left the room, I take it that they no longer wished to intervene. The next item is the report (Doc. From Caluwe.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u118	Mr President, I would have liked to say in the first round that I have been given answers to my questions. I've just learned something, too, so I'm satisfied and satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u119	Madam and Mr Ministers, as has been the case since the beginning, I am taking over from caregivers who face a number of problems on a daily basis. You hear them or not; it varies. You answer or not to their problems or sometimes late. I will not stop speaking on their behalf, even if it irritates you. Having said that, Minister, I would like to emphasize that for home nurses, there is a need to provide for the fees associated with nomenclature codes for the follow-up of home-based VOCID patients. You made a promise about this mid-April. At some point, you will have to keep your promise with retroactive effect. With regard to carers' premiums, permanent referral to federated entities is quite annoying. Let me make a suggestion: go ahead on the issue of the caregiver premium at the federal level and the Regions will follow because they will have no choice but to follow. This will obviously be a minimum correction for all caregivers. This kind of technique sometimes makes it possible to move forward on a file. Continuously pretending that you cannot move forward because of the other levels of power is not acceptable. I've already commented enough on the mask file. Let us consider this VAT which falls at the same time as the possibility for Comeos to sell, while pharmacists, hospitals and municipalities paid a 21% tax. In terms of time management, it's weird. In any case, it is harmful first of all for caregivers and for the financing of structures which are in difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u120	Mrs. Fonck, you have to close.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u121	Mr. President, I'm done. This is ultimately regrettable for the patients. Indeed, if they wear the mask badly and don't re-emphasize the need for proper wearing, everyone will lose, as the virus continues to grow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u122	I would like to go back to the near absence of a reply from Mr. Backer about masks and filters. As much as I can understand that Defence has been called upon in the light of its experience in the procurement of large-scale public procurement, so much I cannot really understand why there is no coordination between the various ministers responsible for ordering masks and filters, when we have precisely a minister responsible for coordinating this procurement in Mr. Backer! I will conclude by going back to the Minister's response to the bracelets that measure social distancing. I regret that we are not able to take advantage of the pilot experience that is currently under way in the port of Antwerp, because this would allow us to reflect on its possible enlargement. It is indeed this kind of extremely concrete measure which could save sectors which have suspended their activities and which are only asking to take them back, in compliance with the health rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-12-55-commissie-ic176x.u123	This concludes this question-and-answer session with Ms De Block and Mr. Backer. We're meeting again in principle next week.
