ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u1	I welcome everyone. I will give the floor to the N-VA, stating that speaking time applies per group. You have the opportunity to refer to your oral questions entered into the system, but you must mention them. Everyone has the opportunity to do so. I had given the N-VA group eight minutes. Mrs Gijbels has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u2	Madam Minister, first of all, it is striking that we have very little information on infections in healthcare providers. However, the level of infection in this group was relatively high in China, Italy and Spain, for example. Today, moreover, care providers in the United Kingdom are commemorated. How many health care providers tested positive in us? Is that reported and where? Are samples organised among healthcare providers? If so, with whom? Does this happen to the care providers both from the first line and from the second line? Secondly, it is not easy for doctors and dentists to determine exactly what can be done in terms of essential and non-essential care at this stage. Are the directives issued by Sciensano binding or not? The RIZIV would now also carry out checks on doctors in relation to the performance performed. Is that what's happening? Are those controls targeted or random? Does the Order act here or the government? It's not clear for dentists. We read in the Sciensano guidelines that it is appropriate to postpone non-essential treatments, but we also read in the relevant document that they should be postponed. Dentists work in an infectious environment with an aerosol. So it is not entirely clear what exactly can and cannot be done. Can only urgent treatments be carried out for the time being, or can necessary care already be provided? Will normal treatments be carried out soon or will there be an intermediate period? Are there any guidelines? Are there any custom hygiene protocols? If so, where can we find it? Of course, there will be some preparation. Thirdly, care providers returning from abroad must be required to quarantine 14 days, like other citizens. But the hospitals need them now. Can no exception be made for them, since they work in a risky environment anyway, provided they are able to protect themselves well? Fourthly, there is another problem with the foot carers. Pedicures must suspend their work, but they are sometimes needed, for example for diabetics, for whom foot care is very important. Podologists may still carry out these tasks; they are covered by the paramedical professions. The problem is, however, that they are not so numerous. They often don't come to the house either, so foot care is postponed. Do you have any advice on this? Can an exception be made for specialised foot caregivers who, for example, treat diabetic patients or other patients at risk? If they use protective equipment correctly, can they, if necessary, proceed selectively? There's also a lack of clarity with the paramedics. Is it true that there is a difference between professional and voluntary ambulances regarding the recognition of COOVID-19 as an occupational disease? Can this inequality be eliminated? Furthermore, there is still a problem with regard to personal protective materials. Is that right? Where exactly is the bottleneck? Finally, I have a question about the residential care centres. Not every home-care center appears to be able to co-hort care. Why isn't a cohort plan mandatory? Is it a federal jurisdiction? If so, are you planning to impose cohorting plans? The patients who are currently being hospitalized were infected during the lockdown measures. Are they and their surroundings being questioned about the possible place of infection, so that we can see exactly where the cause is located at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u3	I would like to return to my questions about the healthcare sector for the fourth time. They weren't answered last week either. I'll put it very schematically. With regard to hospital care staff, how much money is involved in reducing the financial pressure on hospitals? What is the distribution of resources? As you announced a bonus for hospital staff, which I would like to know when it will appear on the account, you would also have announced a relief for home care. It was a forfeit, but only for the care of patients with COVID-19, which is not a solution for all the costs incurred in globo. I repeat my question: what measures will you take in this respect? As my colleague pointed out, we are still getting daily reports of a lack of protective material. As far as I'm concerned, it's mostly home nursing. I would therefore very much like to know what exactly you are going to do about these three problems. Last week I also asked about the Stockholm case, where a third of the inhabitants have already built up immunity. While the economy remains much more operational there, the number of deaths and infections appears to be much lower there. I would like to have your opinion on the approach and vision in Sweden. How do you view our strategy in the light of these findings? Finally, I asked a question about strategic stocks in 2018. With the COOVID-19 crisis, it has now become painfully clear what it means to make wrong choices about strategic stocks. So now, after a month of crisis, it's time to look long-term. What is the status of all our strategic stocks? To my question in 2018 about the strategic stocks of vaccines, medications and protective equipment, not only for infectious diseases such as COVID-19, which we face today, you replied that you had appointed a coordinator. In the meantime, is a report available? That's two questions. The most important questions concern the care sector, compensation and protection. I've been proposing it for four weeks, and I hope to finally get an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u4	Mrs. Depoorter, you have one minute and 40 seconds left.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u5	So, Mr President, I will have to be very quick. Madam Secretary, I have followed the press conference with great attention, as have you all. I am asking myself questions, like most of the population. Based on what models, parameters and criteria have you made the decisions about the exit phase? What conditions will have to be met in order to start the exit phase effectively and to ensure, for example, that chronic care can be restored? Mrs Van Camp has already referred to the RIZIV checks for chronic care. As a result of a true Gestapo, the doctors are harassed and prang between, on the one hand, the controls of the RIZIV and, on the other hand, the charges of the patients. How will you deal with the doctors in the exit phase when it comes to the interpretation of urgent, semiurgent and chronic care? How can they count on you to find an ally instead of a judge? The government has also announced that masks would be provided. What type of masks are they gonna be? When can we expect it? What scientific basis did you base yourself on to say that a scarf protects as well as a mouth mask? Then I would like to ask Minister De Backer what the problem is between him and the experts. How come he's being contradicted in the news by an expert when it comes to the 25,000 tests? Some experts say that this will be abused. We trust our doctors. They can decide which patient needs a test. I hope the Minister will do the same. For the rest, I refer to my written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u6	I repeat what I put in the e-mail. If you wish your question to be recorded in writing, you must say so explicitly, possibly with the number of the question. It's easier for the services. We are actually sitting here with a mixed formula, but the principle is that you either say nothing and refer to your written questions, or you ask your questions and your written questions are not included in the report. In order not to make it too difficult for the services, you must refer explicitly to your written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u7	Madam Secretary, I would like to put a question to you from general practitioners. Since the start of the corona crisis, the general practitioners are allowed to hold telephone consultations and to charge a sum to the RIZIV, which is a very good arrangement. Last week we learned from the general practitioners that there is a maximum of that number, namely up to five consultations per month per patient. I have experienced from close range some patients with an infection who could stay at home and who were closely followed by their GP for three to four weeks. The number of five telephone consultations was really not enough. That is why, Madam Minister, I would ask you to adjust that figure and what your idea as a general practitioner is about it, because I can imagine that you have some experience in that. Minister, my question to you is from home nurses. Home nurses, especially those who work independently, still report a shortage of gloves. The wholesalers are no longer able to supply them, or if they can, they will do so at usury prices. The material that comes from the government simply is no longer sufficient and in the private market it is impossible to acquire material. So I'm hearing alarming messages from the nurses. Self-employed nurses are still not eligible for an occupational disease if they are infected and are now without protective equipment. I am somewhat afraid that they are giving in to it, when we absolutely need them at the present stage. Mr. Secretary, what about those gloves? Can you give an overview of the numbers going to primary care? Can the shortage of gloves be corrected on site, as there is supposed to be sufficient material available in our country? This morning, I learned that dentists have the same problem. I fear that the patient will pay for the costs, and we absolutely cannot allow that to happen at this stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u8	Mr. Chair, Minister, Minister, I would like to ask three questions that are of particular interest to you, Madam Minister of Health. The first concerns continuity of care. For many patients, postponing care becomes a real problem. In the statement on last Friday's deconfining strategy, the practical modalities for the resumption of consultations were not clarified. As you have often said, health is a priority. In doing so, citizens, as well as doctors, medical specialists and the paramedical sector, need to know very precisely when and under what conditions consultations can be resumed. At this stage, however, no information has yet been provided. It is therefore becoming urgent that you take the necessary steps to plan and organize the consultations. Minister, what do you have in mind? Can you give me any information on the timing of the recaptures? My second question concerns the agreements for the reimbursement of tests. To go faster, I refer to the text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u9	This is the third time I've asked you about this. Finally, I will not refer to the text of my question on masks for the population, which is already obsolete. The federal government and the federated entities have put in place a common strategy that will ensure that every citizen receives a free mask, at least a gilded tissue protection that covers the mouth and nose. I refer here to Friday's statement. Although responsibility for the production of masks has been divided among several successive ministers, let me ask you, since this is primarily a public health issue. Minister, what does the federal government intend to put in place in practice to ensure that every citizen receives a mask? What is the timetable for implementation? I'm dropping the rest of my question about the filters ordered by Minister Geens, as it seems to have fallen into the water.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u10	Mr President, for the full report, I would like to refer to the questions raised on access to contraception during the Coronavirus crisis and on access to family planning centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u11	I also come back to two themes that I would like to develop. The first concerns immunity. Minister, knowing whether we can contract coronavirus twice is an extremely important fact because it can lead to political decisions accordingly. Researchers have indicated that immunity may be temporary. They tested the presence of antibodies in volunteers. If these are present for 15 days after the disease, they appear to be significantly less present after three weeks. Screening kits, including ZenTech, are known to show that immunity decreases over time, but these results need to be confirmed by more accurate serological tests called "ELISA" Minister, why do university hospital centres not have access to these ELISA tests? Will you allow them to have them available for research? Without the ELISA tests, we would not be able to assess the survival time of our antibodies. However, it is essential for the development of a vaccine to determine whether or not it should be renewed. The second issue I want to address concerns screening. In recent days, Sciensano has published new screening criteria on its website. You announced that you want to broaden the criteria and take your responsibilities in that regard. Some criteria apply to communities or caregivers. However, only hospitalized patients are now being tested. Why? You mentioned the fact that doctors might decide whether or not to test on the basis of clinical condition and symptoms. We still don't see anything in that direction. Do you think the criteria are broad enough today? And above all, are you considering a new enlargement? Logistical problems have been mentioned in our previous exchanges. Have they been solved today? What about the mobile teams you mentioned? Finally, there are still the same questions as at the beginning of confinement. Barely 10,000 tests in a month; the latest figures for the weekend are systematically falling.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u12	Mrs. Tillieux, we can't hear you anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u13	Mr. President, this is due to a computer problem. Minister, we rest on the same issues as we did at the beginning of the confinement. When can we expect to reach the capacity announced by the Prime Minister: 45,000 futures tests, but especially 25,000 tests to start defining on May 4th? May 4th is in six days! How, in such a time frame, will we be able to increase from less than 10,000 to 25,000 tests, when it took us more than a month to try to achieve these 10,000 tests painfully? I really expect answers to those questions. Secondly, with regard to the distribution of tests between the regions, I would like to get a clear answer, because I ask you the question every time. Finally, are serological tests in progress? You said they could be deployed during the deconfining. We're approaching it. What about it? When will these tests be used? And, above all, for which target groups? Who will take care of it? Will they be reimbursed? Citizens are waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Tillieux. Be careful, Mr. Prévot and Mr. Rigot, you only have 3 minutes 20 left.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u15	Mr President, as Mrs Tillieux has dealt extensively with my question of test analysis addressed to Mr. From Backer, I'll drop her off as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u16	To continue with what Mrs Tillieux has said, I am completing my question. The Prime Minister announced that all laboratories would be associated, while Mr. De Backer preferred only the consortium for reasons of efficiency. What is clear today? Mr. Does De Backer confirm that laboratories outside the consortium will be able to participate in testing analysis? How many daily tests will he be able to perform? On March 23, the Minister of Economy issued a ministerial order authorizing only pharmacies to sell FFP2 and FFP3 masks, as well as other products to combat the VOCID-19 pandemic. On the other hand, it is up to us that they do not limit the sale of these masks to health care workers alone – including, in the absence of a prescription, although these masks remain too small for caregivers. What about the ministers? It should be noted, moreover, that the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association recommends that these masks be reserved for health professionals. Finally, I would have liked the ministers to give us a snapshot of the situation, given the AViQ's statements earlier this week about the famous KN95 masks that were not compliant, before they became compliant. I stop here to give my colleague Hervé Rigot time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u17	Minister, Minister, I come back to the issue of masks. At last Friday's press conference, masks were announced for everyone. Right after that, Minister Geens said it wouldn't be possible. Recently, Defence announced that it would conduct a public procurement for an order for 12 million masks. Where do we finally stand? Is there an agreed and clear message? When, how much, for whom? What types of masks? Who can we count on to have? With regard to non-emergency medical activities, they are essential and must be resumed. How will they be resumed by ensuring the protection of patients and caregivers? Are there any negotiations between the different hospitals? Is there coordination? Is there a debate to determine the degree of priority? If so, who is leading this debate? It is essential to be able to set priorities in order for care to resume. With respect to the launch of clinical trials for VOCID-19, we did not participate in the Discovery program or the Solidarity clinical program. Is that correct? If so, what are the causes of our non-participation in these clinical testing programmes in which Germany and France participate? Could Belgium be part of this study? Finally, can remedesivir be tested? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u18	I now give the floor to Mrs Sneppe. Your group has five minutes in principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u19	Madam Minister, I hope that you will take advantage of the time to finally answer my questions, and I hope, Mr President, that you will be strict but just, so that other groups do not take up this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u20	Mr President, I understand that my question to Minister De Block will be answered by the Prime Minister in the Committee on the Interior, so I just have a question for Minister De Backer. Before I ask that question, however, I do not want to take over Mr De Caluwe's task. I would like to thank you, Minister, for the answers you sent by e-mail, because they were short, powerful and very clear. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u21	Minister, Minister, first of all, in terms of treatment, could you tell me if our scientists are currently involved in clinical trials and if we can participate in the joint Solidarity trial? How many studies are currently under way in our country? What are the results of treatment with chloroquine, hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir or ritonavir in our hospitals? With regard to masks, can you remind us of the compliance tests carried out following the incident involving masks that were distributed to nursing staff in nursing homes but that had to be recalled before being recently reconfirmed as being compliant? If I don't doubt for a moment the difficulties you are currently facing, imagine the degree of trust that drives some professionals in the face of conflicting information on such essential criteria... In addition, in response to the new recommendation on wearing the mask, could you specify what fabric masks and filters will be distributed to the population? What departments are in charge of these orders as part of the progressive de-confinition? What are the dates of delivery and the procedure for the delivery of this material? Could you also tell us how practical information on the optimal use of the above-mentioned masks – instructions for use, instructions for maintenance will be communicated? In this regard, by whom and when will local entities be informed of this distribution related to deconfining? With respect to chronic diseases, you told me that meetings were planned for consultations in the specialist physician hospital. Could you tell me where that is, given the latest measures adopted by the National Security Council? In addition, what about protective equipment for private practice specialists and for consultations and home visits of general practitioners as part of the decoupling? On the role of pharmacists in the context of progressive de-confinition, could you tell me what measures will affect them directly as part of their front-line work, in particular in terms of information on the use of medicines against influenza symptoms? Is an information exchange structure in place? In addition to orders for 400,000 immunity tests for May and 800,000 for June, what are the plans for carrying out these tests? Can you tell us why accredited laboratories seem to be waiting for tests to be carried out? Finally, with regard to INAMI checks on doctors and hospitals, it appears, however, that no checks have been carried out. Could you clarify this INAMI initiative, given the administrative burden on healthcare providers and the timeliness of these requests for information from INAMI?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u22	Minister, can you tell us or confirm where we are today in terms of our daily testing capability? Can you provide us with a more general explanation of the testing strategy that will be used during the defining? A PCR test capability was announced at the CNS. What strategy are you putting in place to reach the announced figures? Will the deadline be sufficient? What is the state of play today in the dialogue with private laboratories in order to increase our testing capacity? How is it determined which groups will be tested? What is the current situation and what are the prospects for the future? Madam Secretary, you announced that everyone with influenza-like illness will be tested from 4 May. That would go through the GP. What is meant by influenza-like illness? We know that some patients do not develop a fever, even if they are relatively severely affected by COOVID-19. Will fever be a determining symptom to gain access to the test or is the general viral status considered? If the general practitioners are going to perform that test, the first line will lie with them. At the very least, we will see a duplication of the first line to the general practitioner. Will the protective equipment available to general practitioners be sufficient? In the event that the test is positive for a person developing influenza symptoms as you have defined it, what will be the testing of his or her relatives and possible quarantine? Minister, at the beginning of the VOCID-19 epidemic, general practitioners were on the front line in the face of the virus. Currently, they are still receiving patients and are therefore at risk of non-negligible contamination. Whether it is to test patients or during deconfining, generalists are and will be again on the front line. Can you explain the specific role that will be given to general practitioners for testing patients? What measures are currently being taken for these health professionals to ensure their safety during consultations? Are specific measures envisaged for general practitioners in the context of the forthcoming de-consolidation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u23	Mrs Van Hoof, your group has three minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u24	My first question concerns non-urgent aid. The exit strategy of 24 April provides for a gradual extension of access to chronic care. Madam Secretary, when will there be directives on this matter? After all, Domus Medica already has its own guidelines under development. The second question concerns the RIZIV which carries out checks on the continuation of non-urgent medical treatments. Do you think these inspections are a priority? Have any fines been issued yet? The third question is again about psychological care, because we do not seem to understand each other. The extension of the refund is noble, but it remains a measure of nothing if the thresholds are not removed. I'm just gonna sum up the thresholds. There is a doctor's referral and the system is very complex and untransparent in the 107 network, where the reimbursement is arranged. Few psychologists have yet to be contracted because the trajectory rates are too low for many of them. Finally, reimbursement is limited to people with anxiety problems, depression and a state of addiction. Do you recognize these thresholds? How do you intend to dispose of them? My final question is about the contributions for the care staff. Can you explain in detail how the consultation on this incentive premium has been conducted for the care staff? Has this been discussed with the regional authorities? Where are the difficulties before the impact? Is this bounty definitely off the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u25	I would just like to stress that I would have liked to have had an answer to my question concerning the key for both the serological and the ordinary COOVID tests. I have asked for this on several occasions, but I have not yet received an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u26	Madam Minister, yesterday, at the RTBF JT, an infectiousologist from the CHU in Liège said: "We are not heard. We're not even asked for our opinion." These words from a field infectious scientist really made me think about what the general practitioners are going through today. The government's exit plan has been criticized, not only because it puts more emphasis on the economy than the human, but also on other aspects such as the speed of deadlines. We're going to change the strategy from week to week when we know that each time we need two weeks to see possible effects on a new surge in the epidemiological curve. Why did you choose the time limit of one week? Today, in general medicine, but also in hospitals, we are reorganizing care so that we can resume chronic care. We are not yet very far away at this level as the colleagues have said. Recommendations are missing. There is a lack of equipment and we are also very afraid of the second wave that is coming. I will sum up by saying that the prerequisites for moving to a deconfination by mastering the curve of the epidemic are not fulfilled. My questions are about the framework conditions for easing. It was decided that the shops could open before we were allowed to see our families. However, if the measures of 4 and 11 May lead to an increase in the number of victims, then the family visit may really be at stake. First of all, we need tracers. On this subject, the newspaper says today that the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC) has already advised you to set it up on 2 March. On 11 March, I also presented the idea of setting up trace teams with PVDA. Now, on 28 April, almost two months later, we have exactly 20 testers in Flanders. Mrs. De Block, I don't know if you're listening to what I'm saying. If you listen to what Members of this House are asking you, I can appreciate it, otherwise it will show little respect. The second necessary condition is of course to have sufficient testing capacity. How are we going to perform 25,000 tests when only 9,200 tests were performed on the most efficient day? What now, Mr. De Backer, about the contract you entered into with the pharmaceutical companies instead of the conventional laboratories? As Frédéric Cotton says today in Le Soir, I am curious to know the budget and the cost of testing on the Pharma side. That's a question I've already asked you twice. When are you going to change the recommendations so that in front line and in sorting stations, we can go to testing? I made a short summary: testing, tracing, isolating. I was inspired by Mrs. Van Camp. How are we going to achieve this because it is necessary to untie?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u27	Mr. President, Minister, Happy Birthday to you! Apart from my questions, I would still like to go back to a few specific points. First of all on the testing guidelines that have been amended, but not in the sense of a freedom of the prescriber. This is obviously important. We find ourselves in absolute nonsense today because a pregnant woman who is about to give birth, for example, has to do a lung scan because she does not have access to a PCR test before being hospitalized to give birth or just after her delivery. It's obviously nonsense. Secondly, with regard to all the decisions taken by the National Security Council, I would like to address several aspects. First of all, with regard to testing capabilities. To get out of the containment, experts recommended at least 25,000 PCR tests as of 4 May, coupled with 35,000 serological tests as of 4 May. Are we there? And what will be the procedure for positive people, I hope, from any symptom, the slightest doubt? And what will be the procedure for positive contacts? In practice, for all those tested positive, will you automatically plan isolation, about 40? And how? This was not addressed at all at the NSC. But it's crucial to break the transmission lines of the virus. Part two. The NSC has decided to resume medical activities. I know that working groups are under way with caregivers to discuss this, but I would like to refer here to two major problems. Dentists and kines who have been forced to stop in recent weeks do not have protective equipment, unless urgent, even though they are in close contact and the risk is major. On the other hand, I would like to alert you to the current shortage of gloves. I have been informed of this by many nurses at home. Part three. I find that the inspection, the fact-finding mission that you have sent to the hospital level on the control of examinations performed, consultations, surgeries or NMR (magnetic resonance) in recent weeks is quite shocking. I would like you to clarify things, and I would like above all to leave a longer period of time out of respect for the hospitals that are under pressure today and the caregivers that it takes time to do so. I share their incomprehension. Fifth part. In the city of Harbin, China, a new genotype of VOCID-19 was highlighted. Do we have any information on this? What about PCR testing? Can the PCR test used in our home be used in this case? Should we not develop others? Finally, Mr President, I should like to refer the rest to the written text of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u28	For the sake of efficiency, I will refer to all my questions for the record. I must, however, supplement them with elements designed to update them, in particular with regard to deconfinity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u29	Many colleagues have addressed the decisions that were issued at the conclusion of the National Security Council last Friday. Many experts are concerned about the steps that have been presented on this occasion, since, at present, none of the conditions for deconfining are fulfilled: admissions to the hospital have still not been below 100 per day and we still cannot reach the 25 000 daily tests promised in a month. Things are going on at the testing level, but again this morning in the Economy Committee, we have explained quite unanimously that all the guarantees of privacy – both at the call centre level and at the mobile application level – could not be put in place. As regards the wearing of the fabric mask by the population, things are beginning to hurried, since it will be mandatory – especially in public transport – in less than a week, by 4 May. Experts are concerned about this and fear a second wave of epidemics for which hospitals are not ready today. I look forward to very specific answers to each of these points, Mr. and Mrs. Ministers, also in relation to the growing concern among experts about the time between the various phases of this de-confinity. The dates of May 4th, May 11th, May 18th, are announced, but if there is one thing that has been repeated since the beginning of this epidemic, it is that it takes a minimum of 15 days to be able to assess the effect of the measures taken at the social and economic level. On the other hand, we decide which steps are to be taken from week to week. They are therefore worried and I would like to know what answer you are giving them today and why, on the contrary, have provided such a short period of time between the stages. As far as testing is concerned, it is my responsibility that the army could help in this regard. Are you planning training in this area? Have you considered this possibility and, if so, what are your conclusions? Finally, are you going to return to the laboratories that have been approved so that we can increase our testing capacity, which is now insufficient? Two weeks ago, you explained to us why you excluded them for the benefit of pharmaceutical companies: it was because they didn't have enough reagents. Today, the problem is solved and these laboratories are under-used. Are you going to ask them? This would increase our testing capacity, particularly for tests that can be performed by general practitioners for patients with symptoms, as this is the strategy we are adopting for the coming weeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u30	We come to the end of this round of questions. We have generally respected the timing. Everyone respected her. Thank you. We have agreed with the ministers that they should have ample time to answer all the questions, 45 minutes for each, i.e. an hour and a half for both. Who's gonna start, Mr. De Backer or Mrs. De Block? Mr de Backer also has a powerpoint presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u31	Mr President, that is the fashion.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u32	Mr. De Backer, you begin. I will inform you when your 45 minutes are up, if you need your speaking time at all. The rest of you will meet each other.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u33	Mr President, I cannot share my screen. So I can't show you my powerpoint presentation. Normally you can do that in that setting. I was going to share my presentation with all Members anyway, because after our discussion last week, I had the impression that there was a need for more background information about the task force Shortages and about testing. So I had prepared a number of slides, which I now see appearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u34	The Secretariat has taken care of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u35	Mr President, that is the previous version, in which a number of slides are missing. I will explain them myself when necessary. May I have the next slide, being slide 4 on the structure? You may also allow me to share my screen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u36	The Secretariat shall ensure that this is done. I'm asking you for a little patience. It's new.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u37	Mr President, I would like to begin by explaining how our task force is structured and also what its relationship is with other organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u38	The secretariat tells us that you can basically share your screen now. [[Powerpoint presentation appears on the screen.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u39	Mr President, you see the structure of our task force, as it has been worked out. The aim is to demonstrate that different flows have been worked at the same time. This task force is divided into five groups. The first working group on testing is led by Emmanuel André, who also works for the reference laboratory in Leuven. The second, for medicine, is managed by Xavier De Cuyper of AFMPS. For the group responsible for masks, gloves and blouses, it is Mr. Gino Claes of the Public Health FPS who takes care of it. For Medical Devices, it is again the responsibility of Xavier De Cuyper. As for distribution, we received assistance from the army, in the person of Lieutenant-Colonel Christophe Blondiau. Experts join these working groups as needed. The whole is headed by a team of 13 people for purchasing, who are therefore in charge of international purchases. They have a close knowledge of the medical market, as well as Asia in general and China in particular – in short, of all the countries where they need to look for this material. In addition to the Public Health FPS, we received assistance from the Economy FPS and customs. In case of problems with certificates and regulation, we can contact them to receive their advice. Then, the task force "data" helps us to make models to know the quantity of material to order. Of course, there is also the input of the Regions. These working groups have, of course, very close relations with the Risk Assessment Group (RAG) and the Risk Management Group (RMG), two autonomous and independent organisations of the "hortage" task force, which were created to meet international demand. It is important to mention this, because we are often asked why we do not determine the criteria for testing ourselves. You see here that this procedure is governed by international rules. The GAR analyses the risk to the population on the basis of logical and scientific data and, in particular, epidemiological data.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u40	Mr. De Backer, we don't see your slides anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u41	I'll try again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u42	Minister, I would ask you to send the powerpoint presentation to the secretariat of the committee so that we can distribute it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u43	Mr President, I intended to do so in any case and in two languages. Mr President, the RAG is composed in such a way and has that competence. The RMG decides, on the basis of the opinion of the Risk Assessment Group, what measures are necessary for the protection of public health. You also see here the composition of this group, which decides independently and independently of the task force. It is important to mention here that it is the RMG that decides the priorities for all materials and testing. There are representatives of the different regions, the Communities, and also of the federal level, but there are also many other experts who are part of this RMG. It is they who decide together what the testing criteria are, how the material is distributed and all the other discussions. On testing, the importance of testing is really two or three different things. First, it is a diagnostic tool to really implement and detect patients who have the virus and who have the ability to contaminate someone else. On the other hand, testing is also important to take more targeted measures, for example in nursing homes, but also when you have a cohort in nursing homes or for home nurses, you can also make equipment available, to be sure that they are used in the right place. It is essential to do tests in the management of the epidemic and also in the future, during the debunking. PCR tests are really diagnostic, very reliable in the detection of contamination. There are also rapid antigen tests that are developed by the Walloon company Coris that we will market after approval of the AFMPS. They will be used in hospitals in the context of patient triage. If the test is negative, a PCR test is always performed. Serological and immunity tests are used to determine who contracted the virus a few weeks ago. As indicated in a few questions, you really need to be very careful with that. Why did we choose to create the central platform? We first had the idea of working together with clinical laboratories. We contacted different clinical laboratories and found for all laboratories that there are not enough swabs, not enough reagents, not enough machines. One additional difficulty is that they all have different machines, different suppliers, different reagents. We contacted the various suppliers. You see here that we contacted Roche, Qiagen, Thermo Fisher, BioMérieux, Becton Dickinson, ELITech, Accuramed. Suppliers were not able, at that time, to offer the guarantee of the necessary volumes to mount up to 10,000 tests per day. That is why we made the choice, three-four weeks ago, to take another route. We have really tried to make every effort to determine the ecosystem to do these tests on a larger scale. We have contacted universities, pharmaceutical industries, laboratories, suppliers, information systems, test machines, authentication services. We have also, of course, worked together with Sciensano, AFMPS, the reference laboratory to see if we can increase this testing capacity in another way as quickly as possible. Here are the different steps we have taken to create this ecosystem on the central platform. Firstly, we have looked at the University of Namur, which had created a new protocol that would consume fewer reagents, and the University of Liège, which claims to have a method to carry out the testing on a much larger scale. We have validated these two methods and then rolled them out over the various university labs that are part of the consortium and they are now being used there. However, we have also received a number of offers from universities, biotech companies and pharmaceutical companies to carry out high-throughput screening and, therefore, to ensure that we are able to carry out a lot of tests on a very large scale in a short period of time. The universities of Liège, Bergen, Namur, VUB and ULB are involved, as are Janssen Pharmaceutica, GSK, UCB and Biogazelle. The University of Liège has also been added from the GIGA Consortium to do the high-throughput screening there. So we have tried to involve as many labs as possible. It is also important to mention that it has never been excluded that the clinical labs would be part of it. They are connected to the first line, to the general practitioners and hospitals, so they get all the samples they can process from there. We have also created a framework to see how we can secure machines and reagents. To that end, we agreed with Thermo Fisher, which agreed to provide a guarantee on the number of re-assets, the number of wipers and so on if we wanted to test on that scale and with that kind of consortium. So we have chosen to create a central platform where everything is brought together. It requires an effort to check whether the whole system is being closed down. So there are also various computer systems that play a role in this. We have also had this validated by external parties and, of course, we have also thought about the logistics side, where we have two companies with BARC and PPD that supply the tests to the residential care centres, for example. The ecosystem in the field of information flow thus functions as follows. UgenTec has actually ensured that the validation of the results of the PCR machines can take place. The MIPS system allows the doctor's information to flow back to the lab and back to the doctor and the patient. Microsoft has made sure that everything can happen in the cloud. DexMach has made sure that the entire configuration of that cloud can be linked to the eHealth system and with the different modules of the CyberLab and itsme serves to authenticate the doctors who take the tests. What else have we done? The agreements made with the labs that are part of the central platform were all validated by the reference lab and thus meet the same standard as the clinical labs and undergo the same quality control. They also work at cost, so they fall outside the RIZIV system. No refunds will be made. There is a separate contract to carry out these tests on a large scale on the central platform. Meanwhile, for the hospitals and clinical labs, there is an agreement on the RIZIV refund provided that they comply with the criteria laid down by the RMG. Here's what I'd like to give you. Sciensano reports the number of tests every day, we thought. However, that does not seem to be right. In the database of Sciensano, we have investigated a number of things ourselves. Sciensano has provided us with a new slide today, on which you can see that we have been close to 10,000 tests for several days and since 22 April we have actually been above that number. Last weekend we took about 15,000 tests a day and analysed them. These are the correct figures, straight from Sciensano. I would like to mention this because there is some confusion about daily reporting. Day-to-day reporting is not about the number of tests that have been reduced, but about other figures, which will be explained by those responsible for Sciensano himself at a press conference next day. What I have now informed you are figures that we get directly from the labs and the residential care centers and that have been validated by Sciensano. As you can see, we have long exceeded the capacity of 10,000 tests a day. The capacity is therefore available and is also fully exploited. In the last three days 13,000, 15,000 and 15,000 tests per day were conducted respectively. Allow me to compare our figures to Germany. In Germany, 50,000 to 60,000 tests are carried out per day. The German population is about 8.5 times larger. So, in proportion, we are testing more than some of our neighbouring countries. You can also see this on the website of Our World In Data. The debate on capacity in relation to the number of tests carried out I would like to clarify again clearly on the basis of the grey line in the graph. The grey line shows the capacity that the different labs, i.e. both the central platform and the clinical labs and the hospital labs, can build together. Today the capacity is well above 25,000 tests. If 25,000 samples are delivered tomorrow, they can be analysed. You can also see the other two lines. You can see that the number of tests carried out is rising, of course. As you can see, the capacity is well above the number of tests being carried out. Why is that? I've explained that a number of times. That's because the test criteria are fairly rigid, fairly strict. The RAG and the RMG take their precautions there, because they do not want the system to be flooded, even if there is sufficient capacity. As you know, I have asked a few times to extend the test criteria. This has been discussed several times in the RMG. Meanwhile, the extension has taken place to testing any person who may be a victim of COVID-19, regardless of severity and based on a definition that goes beyond pure respiratory symptoms. The implementation of that definition will start from the déconfinement, i.e. from 4 May. In addition, each person will also be able to be tested in a collectivity, new cases of COVID-19 who are themselves in contact with persons in a risk group.This is an important category to conduct contact research on.. and anyone who enters a new collective structure, in order to take precautions so that COVID does not re-introduce in certain residential care centres or other collections. That is the test strategy that has evolved in recent days and weeks. As you can see, there has been an effective enlargement. The extension to flu-like symptoms or even wider enlargement, based on not just respiratory symptoms, will start on 4 May. In order to do so, we are currently looking at how we can effectively implement this extended testing strategy on the ground. There's been a conversation going on, for several days, between general practitioners and triage posts. That's almost finished. We want to make sure that the general practitioners and the triage stations have sufficient protective equipment to enable them to carry out these tests. The capacity can be further increased to 40,000 tests per day on the central platform only if we add a third shift per day. It is therefore not a question of reagents or other material, but above all of personnel. The willingness to run that third shift is there, by the way. The available capacity should and will of course be used taking into account the number of patients. So if you're asking me if we'll ever do 25,000 or 40,000 tests a day, I have to tell you that I don't know. It is possible, because the capacity will be there, but it also depends on how the samplings are done, how many patients present, which people will be tested and how many people need to be tested after the contact study. At least we've made the necessary preparations and the lab capacity is there. It is important to report that at that time all clinical labs, all hospital labs and the central platform will have to be able to deliver capacity together. I'll come back to that later. They also asked the very specific question of how many tests did not succeed. Well, 0.3 % yields unanalysable samples. It is sometimes a question of human error, for example, if one forgets to give samples, or if one forgets to give samples, or if there is a false registration in the system. By testing in the residential care centres, we have been able to solve a number of logistical challenges. For example, 30% of the tests allocated to the regions for use in the residential care centres did not return to the lab. For example, this was because some people had already been tested and refused to be tested again or because certain residential care centres had already had tests done through clinical labs, which did not require re-testing. We have cleared that process and coordinated the number of tests we make available with the regions on the basis of their recent figures on the number of people in the collection. This is how we determine the number of tests to be taken. As far as the antigen test is concerned, there are now about 85,000 tests distributed and it is the doctors in the hospitals who decide to use this test. If the result is positive and it is certain that COOVID-19 has been established, then it can be decided very quickly to take action. If the result is negative, a PCR test is always performed. This procedure is followed in the rest homes and hospitals. I'll get to the immunity tests. We have already discussed the serological tests in detail here, and we had to find that a lot of tests, some even with a CE marking, do not meet quality standards. They are not reliable because of too low specificity or too low sensitivity, which would cause problems if we allowed those tests on the market. On the other hand, we cannot stop them if they have a CE marking. We have therefore decided to do an additional validation, set up by the FAGG and the reference lab and carried out by the universities. With this additional validation we want to check how a test behaves under real conditions. We also decided to give the labs a head start if a test is validated and has the CE marking. The federal level will secure a stock to have sufficient availability from the beginning. It is important that the next steps are taken by the clinical labs, because they will have to perform the serological tests. It is not that the clinical laboratories were not able or authorized to make ELISAs, they did not in fact have access to certain kits from certain suppliers because, as often, the latter requested a letter from the State to secure part of their production. This is what we did with ZenTech, DiaSorin, Roche, Ortho Clinical, Abbott and others. The roll-out of serological testing will be done through the capacity in the clinical labs. They will once again play a very important role and be able to make full use of their expertise. It will be done on the basis of criteria that will be re-validated through the RMG. A number of elements are already known. The care staff will be screened and monitored. Studies will also be organised in certain target groups to examine how the virus has spread. The aim is to secure and make available the tests today and to make the following orders pass through the clinical labs. For serology, a RIZIV protocol is still being negotiated today. By the end of the week, it will have to be clear what is the opposite of repayment and when. We will therefore have to continue to test continuously, both in the field of PCR, to quickly identify patients who are mildly symptomatic and their contacts, and in the area of serology, to ensure that we get a good view of the spread of the virus. For example, a study has been carried out by a number of organisations that have carried out serological tests on blood banks. This shows that the virus has spread in about 3% to 5% of the population. That is very little, if we look at a general immunity. That is why we must remain vigilant, and continue to test and screen, even in the coming weeks. This graph shows what tests we have been able to secure for the period April, May and June. You can see that we are getting the figures given at the press conference on Friday. We have effective tests at our disposal that allow us to roll out the capacity of testing on the ground. In addition, the clinical labs are free to purchase reagents themselves to carry out the serological tests. I would also like to talk briefly about the contact investigation. A National Contact Research Committee has been set up. I believe that all entities should assume their responsibilities. But I would like to make it clear from the outset that contact research is an exclusive competence of the Länder. That was the case before the crisis, during the crisis, and it will remain so during the period of relaxation. That is a clear point I want to make here. At the same time, I also believe that we should all work together and bring together our competences to ensure that we make contact research a success. What should we do on the federal level? We're going to increase the number of tests and make them available. We also offer our eHealth infrastructure to support everything related to databases, data processing and so on. Drawing up the different scripts that will be used in the call centers by the call center agents will be done inter-federally, between the Länder and the federal level, to ensure that they are the same everywhere. The call center technology that has just been closed will also be available to the Länder, so that everyone can work with the same platform. The regions will still have to recruit the people who have to man the call centres, as well as a number of field agents, people who can go on the spot and follow up who has been in contact with whom. The recruitment and training of these people are the responsibility of the regions. That has been agreed and will be confirmed at the Inter-Ministerial Conference tomorrow. The test strategy linked to the contact study is indeed of such a nature that we expect people showing mild symptoms to contact their general practitioner and that the general practitioner will decide where to take the test, either in his or her cabinet or in a triage centre, where the necessary materials to take those tests will be present. Those tests will be processed in the hospital and clinical lab circuit. We will therefore make full use of that classic circuit to organise the first-line testing. The contact research itself, namely who the persons have been in contact with and which people need to be tested, after they have been called by the call centre, will then happen again on the central platform and will be carried out via the triage centres. That is about the agreement that we are working on and which will be implemented today or tomorrow in clear agreements with the general practitioners, the triage centres and the hospitals, so that everyone knows clearly where to take the tests. In this way, there is a very clear distinction between the patient-doctor relationship in the first line, in which a test is conducted, and in the second line, the people doing the contact research that will be carried out through the central platform and where there is actually no risk problem. As far as personal protective materials are concerned, I would like to repeat the global context. The whole world is looking for the same products and protective materials. We are in a globalised market and are therefore highly dependent on other countries. An international race is therefore in progress to obtain the same products that can only be obtained in a limited number of countries. What have we done? We have sought contacts with existing suppliers to push them to continue delivering to hospitals, residential care centres, home care and other institutions. We have also partly succeeded in this, because some of those deliveries have been able to continue effectively. Not only has the federal government delivered to certain institutions. Wholesalers and others are also partly able to continue with this. Of course, we've been looking for new suppliers. We have brought back Belgian stocks from abroad. We have started our own production. We have also been able to place a number of innovative applications on the market, which I will explain later. I repeat that the priorities for the distribution are set by the Risk Management Group. I explained at the beginning what that group is, who is in the group and how the work is going. The RMG has set out the priorities for the distribution of materials. At the start of the task force, we discovered that there was a general shortage of resources, that ordered loads were often seized and even snagged and resold to other parties. Sometimes they just disappeared. It is not only Belgium that is confronted with this. Every European country is faced with this. I read an article in a Spanish newspaper yesterday, which also lists what happened in Spain. Test kits were not compliant; ordered materials were not compliant and you name it. Every country - France, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain and Portugal - has the same problems as we have. So it is certainly not only a Belgian challenge to be able to bring these materials here to a sufficient degree and with the necessary quality. What were we still faced with? A large order of millions of masks does not come entirely from the same factory. It's very often about heterogeneous lottery tickets, so lots that come from different factories. In this way, it is also difficult to check whether the different lottery tickets are of sufficient quality. Quality control prior to the start of the task force was as follows: There was a check on certificates prior to the order. The problem was that the certificates were forged several times. There was also no verification of production on the spot. Sometimes the problem was also that the goods produced were of insufficient quality. There was also no quality control in Belgium, except that the certificates were checked and that a visual check of the masks took place. That was the standard procedure, which has always been applied and applied in other countries, until we found, of course, that there were problems with a number of loads that had arrived in Belgium. What have we done? The task force has made a number of changes. We do a very heavy screening of the reliability of suppliers. We have appointed professional purchase teams who have the international technical experience to do so, who have knowledge of the Chinese market, for example, but also of other markets where we place orders. We have used the knowledge of our diplomats and our trade agencies to see if they were able to apply good leads, to see how we could acquire sufficient quality material. As of 14 April we have established an alternative test protocol, whereby a Belgian lab checks all tickets entering via a federal order. We have people on the ground in China who are helping us to do quality control. If the quality proves insufficient, legal action will also be taken to lodge a complaint. Because we were overwhelmed by people who wanted to help us, we have created a central ticketing system to centralise those offers. We have received about 3,000 leads through our ticketing system, but when we started to apply the control procedures to them, 95% of these leads proved to be unusable. It has taken a lot of time and energy to distinguish the good proposals from the bad ones. Most of the proposals were found not to meet the quality requirements we have set. We reject many of these well-meaning offers. How's the trial going? At the time we have identified a lead, it will be examined whether the supplier is able to meet certain quality guarantees and requirements. If that is the case, the FPS Economy will check whether the FAGG's certificates are in order. In this way, we are trying to ensure that this control can be carried out in advance. Once this has been done, an on-the-spot check of the samples will be carried out and then the purchase will be carried out. Once that purchase is formalized, a payment is made. You can see here in all transparency who plays what role in that purchasing process. That is not something that one starts on one-two-three and buys on the market. There is a whole process of quality control and such before we proceed to the purchase of material. What does the alternative test protocol consist of? We introduced this because we wanted to have an additional quality control for the goods that arrived from federal orders in Belgium. It looks at how the filter material passes through certain substances, how certain drops and liquids pass through the mask and whether they can be exhaled. Those tests happen in the lab. That gives a certain test result. Those results can be very different. If the test results are okay and the certificates conform, the masks will be placed on the market. If the results of the tests are positive, but the certificates are not 100 %, the masks are released with the warning that an alternative test protocol has been passed, that the masks are compliant according to the Belgian lab test. There are stickers on the masks, so people are aware of this. Sometimes, for example, there is a discussion about ergonomics because the masks would not be sufficiently closing. The words "tape nose' shall then be inserted. This means that an additional measure must be taken to use that mask, namely a tape to make the mask fit properly. If the test procedure is negative, the mask shall be removed and a complaint lodged. If it is still of sufficient quality, it can still be released as a comfort mask. That is the procedure that we put in place at the start of the task force. How much and what material do we need? We have tried to make an assessment of this as well. We've set targets until the end of August. It is a scenario with input from the sectors themselves. Hospitals, residential care centers and home nurses have reported how much they think they need at the height of the crisis. We have applied a margin of 25% and we have made an estimate of the quantities required until the end of August. These targets are based on the needs of the broad healthcare sector. I just showed you the RMG criteria of distribution. These are the same groups that have been consulted to analyze the needs on the ground in terms of masks, blouses, gloves... Here you can see the orders placed at the federal level, to which we have added the orders made by the Regions. The control system is therefore twofold: the federal power is placing orders, but the Regions have also expressed a desire to continue placing orders and to ensure their distribution in terms of their own skills (rest homes, communities). One of the questions I have been asked concerns the material received by the various entities. You see here only the federal stock as well as the distribution of equipment among the various entities such as hospitals, rescue services, sorting centres, general practitioners, physiotherapists, dentists... for the last three or four weeks. For example, we have distributed ten million masks to hospitals and one and a half million masks to generalists. The green line on the graph represents the number of surgical masks available on Belgian territory before we can reconstruct a strategic stock. This is therefore a critical line. In the case of surgical masks, we have, of course, taken care to place orders in such a way as to have sufficient capacity for the various groups concerned. I would add that today there is a request from the Regions, which wish to distribute federal stock to the various entities under their responsibility. For the FFP2 masks, we stay at a critical border. We'll keep ordering them. We think we can meet all the emergency deliveries right now. Emergency deliveries have been made for dentists and a number of hospitals. We can meet all requests for emergency supplies from the site. That is an important element. In some entities there may still be a shortage, but we can meet the supplies on the ground. We have also found a solution for the hand gels. So that's the problem that's gone, too. We have sufficient capacity to allow the hand gels in the market to do their job. There was also a question about the Nocospray. The Biocidal Products Service is competent for the delivery of an authorisation of disinfectants. They contact hospitals to find out about the different needs. The various admissions holders have said that there is no danger of a deficit. There's just a problem with the delivery times. They're longer than usual because there's a lot of demand. Alternative products, which can be used for the same uses, have now also been placed on the market under a temporary authorisation of the FAGG. We have also started our own domestic production. You know the story of Van Heurck. Four machines were purchased there. We said we'd take 20 million surgical masks, if they were of sufficient quality, 5 million per machine. On the Walloon side, Deltrian will produce surgical masks too. These conditions are negotiated by the Walloon government. We also research a lot of innovative applications. A circular from the FAGG allows very clearly to use in-house solutions in hospitals. This is an important aspect, because it is very often necessary that these are validated by hospitals. A derogation shall then be granted. So many of these innovative applications are already being used today. We also have a number of innovative applications used by different developers, from industry or universities. For example, we use 3D-printed wipers. They are made by a Belgian company. In this way, sufficient domestic production is ensured. Volvo has offered a number of things. Many companies have helped us with very innovative solutions, for which either a derogation or a validation has been granted, so that they can be used safely. There has also been very specific attention to the reuse of materials, e.g. gamma-ray contamination. Some hospitals already use them. We are now looking at how we can further develop this reuse, so that certain materials can be used several times through validated decontamination protocols. This will help us to deal better with a possible new penuria in the second wave. In the meantime, a national re-use directive has also been issued. As far as the masks for citizens are concerned, we have launched a government contract at the federal level for textile masks. Mr Nones is working on national production and the 22 million filters, but it must be an effort of all governments together. The regional governments are engaged in group purchases. The municipalities are also ordering. Once it will be clear that textile masks can be used, there will also be the supply in the shops on the market. We must all work together to ensure that there are sufficient textile masks available. I would like to make it clear that medical masks, surgical masks and FFP2 masks should be reserved for those working in medical care. We know that occasionally there are people, such as pharmacists, who sell medical makers to non-medical staff. The FPS Economy has to take action against that. If this is the case, you can always report to the FPS Economy. Distribution will continue through the RMG criteria. I'll get to the medical equipment. As far as the ventilators are concerned, the needs have been met. There has never been a problem in hospitals or in invasive ventilators. The task force has helped the regions specifically for residential care centres, which have specific needs, because it is a question that came from them. They are competent for residential care centres. The task force has helped to fill the needs through a number of emergency deliveries. We have also helped, for example, to map out how many oxygen concentrates we are talking about. We have set up a ticketing system to ensure that the devices can circulate better and thus be used better. We held several meetings, together with industry, to generate additional capacity. Eventually, we also facilitated a group purchase to help the regions out of need and to ensure that sufficient ventilation equipment is available in the residential care centres. That's the overview I wanted to give you. I have received a number of specific questions which need to be addressed in greater depth. With regard to infections in care providers, the intention is indeed to follow up the serological testing, in order to determine how they are infected with the virus. A number of studies are already under way. For the PPE's at the doctors and the dentists, I have just shown you the figures. If there were any specific needs, we would be happy to hear them. Then we'll see how we can accommodate that. As far as strategic stocks are concerned, if we get above the green line, we can rethink the creation of strategic stocks. That is, of course, important, for two reasons. Firstly, to have a strategic stock, but also to be prepared for a possible flare-up. This way we can quickly deliver at certain times. I come to my discussion with the experts. I have a lot of faith in the doctors on the premises. You have also seen that in the RAG and RMG there are also a lot of experts who have clinical experience, people with a scientific background, people from hospitals and general practitioners at the table. We also consult with the experts on a permanent basis. Last week I had two meetings with the clinical labs and a number of meetings with the GPs to see how we can involve them effectively. That consultation is going well right now. We are also going to include the general practitioners and clinical labs in a number of sub-groups of the National Committee for Testing and Contact Research to ensure that everything can go well there. I just showed you the numbers on the deliveries of masks. I do not have the figures in front of me, but I can also check how many gloves the home nurses received. If there is a need there, they may contact the chief medical officer, who is always able to make emergency deliveries on the premises. As far as the reimbursement of tests is concerned, for the PCR test, it is already settled. The RMG (risk management group) criteria are used. The reimbursement follows this recommendation. For central platforms, there is no INAMI refund, it is another type of contract. For serology, the criteria for reimbursement are currently being discussed with INAMI and RMG. Indeed, in the medical context, it makes sense to pay back. But if companies ask to test all their staff, it doesn't make sense. For serological tests, only 3 to 5% of the population is tested positive. If companies want to do this, it's up to them. I also talked about immunity. It is clear that serological tests are not always reliable, even if they bear the CE marking. For this reason, additional validation was considered necessary. We only buy CE-marking tests. Studies show that some patients have a fairly strong reaction and a lot of antibodies. Others have a lower reaction and not enough antibodies. Scientists will have to see how people are immunized and how long. These various researches are under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u44	Mr de Backer, may I remind you that your 45-minute speaking time has expired?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u45	Mr President, I would like to answer two or three questions punctually. Then I'm done. As I said, we're gonna need all the labs. The clinical labs will be used in the first line. The central platform will be used in the contact research, for the large mass to be collected. With regard to the AViQ masks, a lead was received and an order was made at the federal and regional level a few weeks ago, before the task force was set up. We saw that the lot was very heterogeneous. It was also found that a small part of this lot was not of good quality. As a result, AViQ was notified, which continued to order from this supplier. It was recommended that a double check be carried out as these controls do not go through the ATP procedure. The Regions have done the test and their lots are apparently of good quality. So there has never been a question of not protecting people who work in health care. For clinical studies, I refer you to the AFMPS site, all clinical studies are listed: studies with hydroxychloroquine or other antiviral methods. There is still a question about the distribution of tests. We don't distribute tests. Hospitals and clinical labs have their own providers, and the distribution is based on the number of patients in the hospital and the number of tests performed by the labs. For nursing homes, we have a distribution key. It is based on the number of residents and staff. There are enough tests planned for each person in nursing homes and other communities. These tests are done on the central platform. I think I've answered most of the questions. If there are any more questions, I'd like to come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u46	A second round of replies is foreseen after the replies. Mrs. De Block, I'll give you 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u47	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr De Backer for this presentation. Firstly, there was Mrs Van Camp's question about Sweden. That country has decided not to enter a lockdown. That's what the head of the Swedish Health Agency has declared. That statement states how different Sweden's approach is from that of other countries, and that Sweden, like Belgium, is also committed to social distancing. However, the difference is how this is put into practice. Sweden is very different from Belgium in terms of population density, but also from habits and cultural factors which obviously have a particularly significant impact on the evolution of the epidemic. As the recent debate on mortality rates in Belgium has clearly demonstrated, it is particularly difficult to compare international mortality rates, as each country uses a different method of reporting. Perhaps the most objective parameter is excess mortality. The mortality data from the European platform EuroMOMO clearly show that there is a very high excess mortality rate in Sweden compared to neighbouring countries Finland and Norway, where lockdown measures have been taken. Moreover, Sweden is also one of the few European countries where the number of cases of COOVID-19 continues to increase. Our location is also very different, because our country is centrally located and has intense contacts with a number of neighbouring countries. With our approach, we have achieved that the maximum capacity of intensive care has never been exceeded, which has proved to be good for our patients. Since this is a new virus, it is impossible to have perfect models and decisions must always be made with a safety margin. The question is what price we are willing to pay for obtaining group immunity. There is no doubt that allowing the virus to circulate freely leads to an immune population more quickly, but it may require a higher price. This means that the health system is now under threat, something we have always wanted to avoid. Group immunity is not the only way to avoid a second wave pending vaccine or therapy. Therefore, strategies on testing and tracking are being worked out in several countries. Several members have asked questions about the exit strategy. The National Committee for Testing and Tracking prepares the strategy for testing all possible cases and identifying their contacts. Social-distancing measures are being progressively relaxed. In this context, the directives on insulation will also be stricter, for example for the roommates of persons who are found to be positive. This information will first be passed on to the doctors by Sciensano. One of the tasks of the Committee is to plan a communication campaign for the public. This will deal with the usefulness of wearing mouth masks, as well as the way in which they should be worn and what should be avoided in order to reduce the risk of infection. Quarantine instructions for people who are ill at home were written out and published at an early stage. In doing so, we worked from two angles, namely how a patient should behave in home isolation in order to protect the family members and the environment, and how one can safely provide a family member who needs to suffer from home isolation without running the risk of others being infected. That information is available at www.info-coronavirus.be and can be downloaded in the form of a useful brochure. Print copies of these brochures were also distributed to the pre-triage points of general practitioners to give to patients who do not have access to the Internet. Because it is important information, this brochure was translated into 22 languages. It is also available in Dutch and French deaf language on the website. Then I come to the questions of Mrs Depoorter, Mrs Fonck and Mr Prévot. Mr Prévot, the resumption of elective medical activities is a double challenge for public health. First of all, we must remain vigilant about the continuation of the VOCID-19 epidemic, and about a possible resurgence, in order to take into account persistent abnormal situations and ensure that care capacity will be available and sufficient for the VOCID-19 problem if necessary. As has often been said, chronic diseases, but also other medical problems, have not disappeared. The virus didn't make them disappear. During the crisis it is true that emergencies and high-risk situations have been dealt with by different medical disciplines, and that other interventions that are less urgent or less risky have been postponed. That is where a difficult balancing exercise needs to be carried out. Normal functions must be re-recorded, but there must also be a certain buffer. A lot of meetings have already been held on this subject. This consultation takes place at the FPS Public Health with all the groups involved: specialists, general practitioners and hospitals. Indeed, all safety measures will have to be respected during medical activities. But other interventions, other diagnostics and other necessary therapeutic care also need to be resumed. Hospitals will also be supervised to ensure that the entire system remains in balance. This is done in consultation with them. Some have already resumed duties. Others are planning that. They are now completely organized to keep the COVID-19 patients apart. The question is whether this can be maintained in the long term. After all, this requires an entire organisation. There was also a question about Mrs Depoorter's RIZIV. She has said a word that I would like to have deleted, Mr President. This is an information survey of the RIZIV on benefits in kind provided and planned at the hospitals. I will give you the floor in writing. I believe that this word does not belong in the written report of the Chamber, Mr President. You should know that the last checks of the RIZIV took place on 12 March. Last week, the RIZIV requested information from all hospitals to map all medical care outside the COVID-19 activities. This is necessary information to ensure and monitor the continuity and quality of essential care. Why this question? This is to get an overview of the medical activities, performed or planned between 30 March and 3 May. This is important to know, so that hospitals can resume their usual activities soon. This can only be done if the necessary treatment capacity of people and resources is safeguarded in the fight against COOVID-19. That's certainly not harassment. That's not control either. This questioning was by no means repressive. The analysis of the information is discussed with the Risk Management Group and other stakeholders. The RIZIV took exactly these initiatives to support care providers so that they can ensure continuity of care, but also, if necessary, continue to focus on the fight against COVID-19 in a second wave. We have taken measures for each of them in the form of administrative simplification, switching care, teleconsultations, triage centres and so on. People with different medical education have also volunteered to work on the ground, for example in those triage centres, the residential care centres and the psychiatric institutions. It is a common struggle and the RIZIV stands side by side with the caregivers. However, they must keep the overview, because if 105 hospitals decide for themselves what they will do, then that is simply not possible. That is why RIZIV took that initiative. Mr De Cock issued a press release on 23 April, because apparently there were quite a few misunderstandings. Mrs Van Camp, you asked about the billion-dollar key, which is primarily intended to prevent hospitals from continuing to pay the recurrent costs. Of course, they have seen expenditure increase because of all the measures they had to take, but they have also seen revenue fall because consultations and interventions have been removed. With less revenue and extra expenditure one can quickly get into financial difficulties. The current distribution of the advance is based on the hospital's turnover. Later this will be regularised according to criteria that still have to be determined definitively. We're working on that right now. In the meantime, the forfait has been deposited on April 22nd. The amount is flat-rate, for what the hospital has done and another piece is related to the number of patients being treated. That was also a question in the COOVID committee yesterday. It should be borne in mind that some hospitals have received far more patients than others. This is a first move to prevent the hospitals from getting into trouble. The next exercise is already under way, as Mr De Cock explained yesterday in committee. In addition, the invoices will be looked at. The March invoices must be inside at the end of this month and processed in the course of May. We will then be able to see which way this is going, because in March the COOVID story was already very much present. Mrs Van Camp, you asked a question about home nurses. There is consultation with its representatives. If you follow the website of the RIZIV, you will see that we are not sitting still. There is an increase in the fees and reimbursement of visits by a home nurse, which also compensates the home nurse for the costs of the special protective equipment and the special time needed to use that material correctly. There is also a new nomenclature number for follow-up and monitoring of patients suspecting or suffering from COVID. Video consultation is possible for nurses-diabetes educators. At the moment we are discussing how we can finance the home nurses to take care of cohorts. The Länder are also involved in this. There is therefore constructive cooperation with the sector in order to provide the patient with the best possible care, but also to do what is necessary for home nurses in the first line. Something has already been said about foot care, about which several questions came up. Mrs Gijbels, foot caregivers cannot actually act now, but the medically recognized professions, such as the podologists, can act. The general practitioners must decide what urgent care is and, if necessary, refer it to them. I hear a lot of that. I miss my pedicure, too. For some people with problems at the feet it starts to weigh heavily that they have not had their pedicure for several weeks. That's one of the concerns of making contact. If we get on the road, I hope that they too will be able to resume work, provided that the necessary precautions are taken. The GEES is also working on this by group. Mrs Gijbels and Mr Rigot had a question about testing in healthcare providers. Using various sources, information on COVID-19 is requested from healthcare staff, via the request form for a test, for tests carried out in the context of screening in the residential care centres, for hospitalised patients via a non-compulsory questionnaire...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There is also a study of health professionals in hospitals, looking at the evolution of infections over several months through PCR tests and serology. If we're going to extend the tests to all people with symptoms, it might be useful to know who is a health care provider and who isn't, to get a clear picture of which groups the virus is spreading. One condition is that the claim forms for steel collection are correctly completed. Furthermore, in the course of next week, a proposal for serology screening is being prepared in consultation with hospital representatives, including asymptomatic staff in hospitals, with priority being given to those working on a COVID-19 unit, to know who has antibodies and who does not. This has also happened in the residential care centres. Sciensano processes all this data, but it will therefore be a while before we can draw any conclusions. Mrs. Gijbels, you asked if a care provider returning from abroad should be quarantined. At present very few people come back from abroad, but the general rule is indeed that one should be in home isolation when one comes from abroad. If the boundaries open again and in a context where we have more test capacity, that can be re-examined by COFECO, because these are different circumstances. A new opinion can then be requested, but in the meantime that remains the rule. Other countries also apply the same approach. Mrs Gijbels, this week a press release was distributed on the approval by the Council of Ministers of the recognition of COVID-19 as an occupational disease for voluntary ambulance workers. This concerns not only ambulances, but also firefighters in the safety zones. We therefore align the rights of volunteers with those of professionals for the recognition of COOVID-19 as an occupational disease. That was necessary to give Fedris a dotation for this, because Fedris has a joint management. We have actually based ourselves on the model of the Asbestos Fund, which works with money, a federal donation, but in which we get the same rights as others through Fedris. The administrative treatment is also done by Fedris. Mrs Dock, what about the situation of general practitioners? Screening was conducted in triage centres. Now we wonder, when we do more testing, if we still need sorting centres. We're discussing it with doctors and nurses. As Philippe De Backer said, we need to think about how to screen our population. Access to general medicine must also be resumed. We know that people were afraid to go to their general practitioner. Try to keep separate circuits. This means that when a person has symptoms that may be related to VOCID-19, action must be taken. Care must, of course, be taken to ensure that it is treated separately from other patients. On the Sciensano site, professionals and general practitioners find regular updates on protective measures. Of course, their situations vary. This is important because the other medical problems of the population have obviously not disappeared during this period. Controlled access to general medicine may also gradually increase in the coming days. Mrs Gijbels, a phased plan was drawn up for the dentists by the professional organizations and the experts in the field at the Council of Dentistry. This plan includes modalities for the resumption of activities and lays down precise protocols with health rules for the organisation of care and care for patients. The measures in force developed by Sciensano remain valid. I have also read press reports that the professional associations are considering the question of what hygiene measures should be taken to protect both the patient and the dentist in order to resume their activities. The phase of resumption is indeed in the coming weeks, but this will depend on the capacity of dental practice and on strict rules. The government remains committed to the purchase of protective equipment with a view to coordinated action so that dentists can provide safety for themselves and the patient. The RMG continues to assess the needs of the various occupational groups in the field according to the evolution of the lockdown. Every further step will also be discussed. Mrs Rohonyi, you still have a question about the ethical management of seniors with coronavirus. We received this question yesterday when you introduced it on 20 April. I have already clearly answered your questions during the debate in plenary. I refer to what I said then, in order to save time. A lot of questions have also been asked about the premium for the care staff, on which I will return later. Mrs Rohonyi, I can send you the answer to your question on ozone tunnels in writing because you have not mentioned it. Mrs Jiroflée and other Members have spoken about the exit. Everyone's working on that now. We can say that this is an extremely delicate operation. We can learn a number of things from countries that are already further advanced in evolution, which have been over the peak for a long time. There are many parameters in the game, which can play a role. There is nothing about three green lights when there is one bright red, because then one has to stop. It is important to continuously observe and analyse what the trend is and where and when an adjustment has to be made. An important measuring tool is of course the number of new recordings in hospitals and occupied beds on intensive care. But we should also take into account that people go to the doctor first, maybe two weeks before they end up in the hospital. So we need to look at whether we are monitoring the situation through the monitoring practices. These monitoring practices, which are not yet fully operational, normally have a good system for determining the number of influenza patients. We think we can use it. However, we will still have to ask other general practitioners to report when they again see more than x-number of patients a day with suspicion of COVID-19. We can certainly use the first line, just not just to look at hospitals and to be able to play on the ball earlier. We are trying to evolve into cut-offs or milestones, but that is not about strict figures. I refuse to give numbers. We need to see a downward trend. If it rises a little bit on a given day, the other parameters must be looked at. It will be difficult to make choices in that regard. Once again, we must be very careful, because in the end we have made a great deal of effort to be able to take care of and follow up all our patients. We must avoid a second wave throwing overboard the result of all the efforts we have made. Cooperation is becoming more important than ever. The monitoring of the various parameters happens to be at different levels of policy. Good cooperation, through the Inter-Ministerial Conference, is certainly important. Mrs Fonck, as regards a new form of the virus, I will send you my answer in writing. Mrs Taquin, with regard to the chloroquine and hydroxychloroquine clinical studies, I have already given some answers, the rest will be sent to you. Mrs Merckx, as far as the shortage of medicines is concerned, it is true that AFMPS has regularly cooperated with industry associations and contacts are regularly held with drug manufacturers. For each of the drugs considered essential for the treatment of in-patient VOCID patients, AFMPS requires companies to report the status of the stocks three times a week, along with sales data from the past few weeks and expected future deliveries. Hospital pharmacists transmit their stocks twice a week. On the basis of this information, the AFMPS has a good overview of the available and planned stocks and can verify that the quantities are sufficient. To this end, AFMPS uses epidemiological models that provide an estimate of the number of patients hospitalized and/or intubated for the coming months. If the stocks prove to be insufficient or if the planned deliveries prove to be insufficient, they shall contact the undertakings concerned. In this respect, it is examined whether the company can increase production. In some cases, this has been done. They look at the amount allocated for Belgium and the possibility of importing foreign lots. This was also done for the Belgian market. For example, at the request of AFMPS, a Belgian company temporarily doubled its production of morphine bulbs. The AFMPS also checks whether deliveries can be advanced, in some cases. If certain consignments were not originally intended for the market, they may be released, for example in the case of a near expiry date, provided that stability is demonstrated by stability tests, or in the case of consignments presenting an error in the package leaflet, only in the case of a medicinal product for hospital use. If Belgian companies are unable to find a solution, AFMPS is looking for stocks abroad. They've done this several times. This is done through a wide network of wholesalers, businesses, manufacturers, importers, etc. Thanks to the proactive monitoring of the AFMPS, I can confirm today that, for most drugs, we have more than enough stock until the end of June. We obviously continue the work because the possibility of having a surplus of patients in September and October exists. We are still looking for solutions for a handful of medicines but we can also be assured that they will be found in good time. Indeed, we are in the process of negotiation. Since stocks of most drugs are sufficient until the end of June, the AFMPS is now committed to ensuring the availability of drugs until the end of 2021. For Mrs Dock and Mrs Creemers' questions about cancer monitoring and continuity of care, it is true that the postponement of the treatment of cancer patients or some other pathology – of a neurodegenerative nature, for example – may have unintended consequences for health. However, in addition to the care of patients affected by VOCID-19, hospitals continue to provide care to many patients who need it. Hospital services were organized to isolate the VOCID patient. It is therefore up to doctors to assess the needs of each patient in terms of medical follow-up, depending on their clinical situation. The assessment of the providers will take into account the strictly medical aspects, but also the psychosocial context of the patient, in particular by assessing the risk that the patient alone will decide to discontinue treatment. The biggest problem in some cases is to convince the patient that he/she can go back to the hospital to receive his/her care, or even to convince him/her to contact his/her doctor in case of difficulty. General practitioners know very well that patients are afraid to go to the hospital for the time being. So we tried to do a few things, but we're told they're coming back to hospitals. On 16 April, a joint letter from the FPS Public Health, INAMI and AFMPS on the application of the guidelines was sent to health care providers. It stated at the outset that all necessary consultations, reviews and urgent interventions could of course take place. All ongoing life-saving therapies (chemotherapy, dialysis) can be continued. The treatment of chronic diseases whose suspension caused irreversible or unacceptable deterioration in health status must also be considered as essential care. This letter also points out that once these measures are lifted, regular activities can be restarted. There is also a decision of the National Security Council. Traditional activities will gradually resume from 4 May. Contacts are under way with all health professions with a view to organising this gradual resumption of activity in the best possible safety conditions, for both patients and professionals. Under the coordination of the Health Branch of the FPS, several committees have been organized. I have sent you in writing the tasks and composition of these committees. One of them is the Hospital & Transport Surge Capacity Committee which meets daily with representatives of all entities, hospital federations, scientific committees and others. Another important committee is the Primary and Outpatient Care Surge Capacity Committee, which will play an essential role when resuming activities. On 24 April, a first letter was sent to the hospitals in preparation for the exit. The priority of re-starting hospitals is on the Committee's agenda and the guidelines will be communicated in a very dynamic way. After all, there will be a continuous monitoring before re-starting. I have sent a letter to the hospitals how and when the distribution of the EUR 1 billion will happen. I have also made it clear when the next steps will be taken. Is the Directive of elective care mandatory? To the questions put by Mrs Sneppe, Mrs Depoorter and Mrs Gijbels, I can answer that it is important to follow up. Under the coordination of the Health DG, the committees are called on daily and we get the results twice a day. Based on this, RMG is reported. That committee also had a number of decisions validated by the Risk Management Group. These directives were introduced from 14 March. They will end when normal activity resumes. Hence the importance of carrying out that monitoring and passing that information on to the FOD and the RIZIV. It is a mixed group of................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ There were questions about the activities of a fertility centre and its so-called commercial nature. A complaint has been lodged against that centre with the Order of Doctors, which will analyse the substance of this complaint. We therefore have no influence on this at the moment. There have been articles published that inspectors would have gone to the hospitals. That was about the letter. However, I have been confirmed by Mr De Cock that no physical check has been carried out. Only that letter, which certainly did not impose a heavy administrative burden, was sent, Mrs Van Hoof, because it is specifically about requesting lists used in the day-to-day operation of the hospital, and that has also been clarified where necessary. It is therefore a selection of implemented and planned concerns over a period of five weeks. The explanation given subsequently by the RIZIV has ensured the necessary rest. Mrs Van Hoof and others also spoke about psychological care. There has indeed been an extension of the first-line psychology convention, first and foremost to 18-year-olds and, second, to 65-plussers. For that, an additional budget of 2 times about 8 million euros has been given, I think. It is not true that we are going to use the under-utilisation of the budget for this, which is only EUR 22.5 million, Mrs Van Hoof. On the contrary, budgets have been added to provide for enlargement, which was also included in each party's electoral programme. The thresholds to which you refer are based on a policy decision of the entire government. Those decisions were made on the basis of a vision. I do not agree with the fact that we are making the path to psychological aid more difficult. On the contrary, we have taken additional measures to work more multidisciplinaryly, also in order to strengthen the first line. We see that this is also being organised on the ground. There will also be echoes of clinical psychologists, of general practitioners and of other actors who want to engage fully in this field. Indeed, this convention requires something more than what you call a simple reimbursement relationship between care provider and patients. I think a relationship between caregivers and patients is never easy. You say that the reward can be greater for all concerned. I would like to reiterate that scientific guidance at the end of the convention will enable us to make well-founded decisions to strengthen psychological care in the first line. That is where the discussions will reappear, especially about the remuneration. The indications limited to anxiety, depression or problematic alcohol consumption were indeed based on scientific insights. These are the most common, not the most innocent. But this can certainly be discussed again at the end of the convention, to see how we should broaden. We've now taken the age that was ruled out. At the time, that was impossible because of insufficient budget. Now we've given up budget. So I think it is important that this is discussed again. Mrs Dock, you asked for the criteria that will be used for the tests during the deconfination (flu symptoms: fever, cough, sore throat...). It's not up to us to say, the diagnosis remains in the hands of the doctors. It is the full-analysis interpretation and examination of the patient that will have to determine whether or not a test will be performed. And if there is any doubt, I propose to run a test in any case. It'll be possible. We know that testing and tracking will be very important during the deconfining period. Tomorrow, this item will be on the agenda of the Interministerial Conference. Every week – sometimes several times – we work with the Regions to organize the work. Questions were asked about the care premium. He's been on the table. He's been discussed. A number of issues have been agreed on at federal level, but we would also like to see an exchange of views at the level of the Länder. How are we going to explain to a nurse that who works in a hospital gets a health insurance premium and who doesn't work in a residential care center or a psychiatric hospital? We must allow consultation with the Länder to take place in order to see what is possible there, but, as far as we are concerned, a compromise has been reached. Discussions are under way with the Länder. It would be difficult to explain why it is impossible for one person to do so and for the other, since they have all made the necessary efforts. Mr President, I have lost track of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u48	I have left you to speak, you have only gone three minutes past your time. I think we have now received much more detailed answers to the various questions. For the report, I would mention that yesterday, in three e-mails, the cabinet sent six answers to questions of a more technical or scientific nature last week. We will now proceed to the replies. I proposed six minutes of speaking time for groups with three effective Members, four minutes for groups with two Members and two minutes for the other groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u49	Mr President, before we begin, I would like to say that our colleague from Green, Barbara Creemers, has been in the waiting room for a while. She can't get into Zoom anymore. Anyone want to check that out? I thank both ministers for the answer. They were very clear this time. I would also like to thank everyone who prepared these answers. I didn't hear an answer about the cohort plan in the residential care centers unless I missed it. Apparently, that's not mandatory. I wonder if this is a federal jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u50	No, that is a matter for the Länder. That will be a question for your colleague in the Flemish Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u51	Mr President, there were indeed many more answers than the last few weeks. I would also like to thank the Minister for that. It is now also clearer why certain things are blocked, such as the care premium. With regard to home care, there is indeed an announcement on the website of the RIZIV regarding an additional allowance for material and a fee, but the fee number and the amount are still not known. Could you give me the exact nomenclature number and the amount that has been released for that purpose, Madam Secretary? Then that concern about home care is also removed. Finally, there is still a large shortage of masks and gloves. I will put in the chat the e-mail of your own services, confirming once again that there is insufficient material. It is especially time to solve the problem with the masks and gloves for home care. The other material can also be found on the market only at usury prices. That is why I refer once again to the nomenclature number and the concession that really needs to be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u52	Minister, Minister, they were indeed clearer answers to our questions. But they do, of course, expose a number of problems that have been mentioned here before. Minister De Backer, you made your move in March, but this crisis has been going on for a long time. We have had a discussion about testing and testing capacity. I see that you have made an enormous effort, but I would like to return to an earlier discussion. In mid-January Germany had completed a protocol for testing on the basis of the genome of this virus. Germany passed that protocol on to all the peripheral labs. Belgium has held on to one lab. At the committee meeting on 3 March, we had a big discussion about this: that it was defective, that the patients were not tested in time. We were told that this was not the case, that there were enough tests. Your answer clearly shows that there has been a real drag and that there has been a lot of life and testing. That's a shame. Also with regard to antigen tests, which have been repaid by the community. It is now becoming clear that they are not working enough. That's a waste of money. And I'm talking about the mouth masks. A great deal of effort has been made in this regard too. You had a very nice graph. Chapeau, congratulations for that. But that is also the story our group has been quoting since 28 January. By the way, I still haven't seen the pharmacists on your list. First-line care providers who didn't get mouth masks from the federal government. I don't really understand that. What I don't understand is the communication about the mouth masks after the exit strategy. You say that Minister None will now consider how to give everyone mouth masks, and that the regions will also play their part in this. Well, our local government decided yesterday that it will provide everyone with a mouth mask. But why did my congregation do that? Why did so many other mayors do that? Because you, as a federal government, did not accept your responsibility for this. They did. Mrs De Block, you say about the mouth masks that there is now thought of communication about how to wear them and how to protect them safely. Why is that being considered now and not last week, before that press conference? If we're gonna communicate with our citizens and give a press conference, we're gonna have to be done. I don't understand this. Finally, Mrs De Block, you can have words deleted from the report perfectly. That's not a problem for me. But do you know what the problem is for me? That's that those words come right out of my mailbox and straight out of the field. The doctors approached by the RIZIV feel really caught. The timing is very unfortunate. Now we are all applauding our doctors. It is also at that time that the RIZIV should support and guide our doctors. Indeed, we need to monitor our care and ensure that our hospitals are able to prioritize, but we need to give our doctors confidence. That's something I've really missed here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u53	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u54	Mrs. De Block, isn't it better for you to answer in a second round? I now give the floor to Mrs Creemers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u55	I was just getting out. Preteaching and working at home is apparently difficult for the Wi-Fi. Mrs. De Block, I don't know if I've missed the answer to the five telephone consultations per patient? However, if it is picked up, I am already satisfied. I might have missed it because of my Internet problems. Minister De Backer, your presentation shows that a small percentage goes to home nurses. Especially when it comes to those gloves. We are still waiting for a big delivery there, if I could follow it correctly. If there's a problem, you say it should be reported. To this end, I agree with Mr Van Camp and I would like to report it again. Today there was also on the radio that the dentists seem to have no choice but to count it on the patient because they have to buy expensive materials. I think we should avoid that at all costs. If insufficient material can be provided, we as a government should be able to determine that the RIZIV will provide for a refund. It is not possible for 30 to 50 euros to be passed on to patients for the cost of the protective equipment. I would like to call on you to follow that very closely. If there is not enough material available, I ask you to look for solutions together with the RIZIV.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u56	I really would have liked an answer to the question of masks for the population. A question has been asked about this to Minister Goffin, another to Minister Geens, and I, too, have tried my luck here in the Health Committee. The situation is becoming truly surreal, and it is high time that we got a clear answer on the federal government's strategy for the masks to be distributed to the population for the imminent definity. Nor do we have any information on the agreements for the reimbursement of tests, even though I have already asked the question three times. Can you tell me what the current situation is with respect to the reimbursement of PCR tests performed by clinical laboratories and the tests carried out by the consortium? We would really like to see all the clarity on this point. Finally, with regard to continuity of care, it is essential that the federal government clearly inform citizens and caregivers of the date and conditions for the resumption of activities. You say this will be the case from 4 May. I hear you're working on this with the Health FPS, but all hospitals and general practitioners are waiting for very clear instructions on what's serious and what's not. The implementation of the measures may require perfectly safe, non-COVID spaces, as well as additional protective equipment to allow general practitioners to continue their consultations. All these measures require a practical organization. In the field, medical staff are exhausted, and this should be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u57	I would like to return to the question of testing, which I have already mentioned twice in my presentation. Clinical PCR tests shall be reimbursed on the basis of the criteria determined by the RMG. All tests carried out are part of this framework. Tests carried out on the central platform shall not be reimbursed but shall be the subject of a contract with the laboratories forming part of the central consortium. Finally, we are in the process of defining the criteria for reimbursement of serological tests with INAMI.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u58	Mrs. H annoyance, does this answer satisfy you? We're still in your reply time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u59	Minister, these tests are not reimbursed on the basis of a contract. We would therefore like to know clearly the terms of this contract. I will not fail to rest the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u60	The different criteria are included in my slides. They work without profit.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u61	I can't believe it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u62	In the meantime, the secretariat sent the slides as a pdf file to the members.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u63	Mr President, I referred to my questions about access to planning centres and contraception. I didn't hear an answer. I guess I'll get written answers to those questions. Many elements of the response were provided by Minister De Backer, whom I also thank for his presentation, which was very clear, fast and dense. We will certainly need a little step back to digest this information. Nevertheless, from there to say that we are testing almost as much as in Germany... we are far from it. I did it today. Between 1 March and 27 April, we have around 220,000 tests in Belgium. In Germany, it would take three days to achieve these figures. I know the country is smaller, but still. For almost two months the crisis has persisted, we have been far from German performance. I do not have an answer on the distribution between regions. The distribution between regions is visible for the number of cases that prove to be positive, or for the number of deaths, on the Sciensano site, but compared to the tests as such, I still do not have the figures. They were delivered once, but we were at the time at 30,000 tests. We're at 220,000 today. I would therefore like to have an answer to that question. I also have concerns about the evolution of testing. You seem to reassure us. However, today, the 9,000 daily tests are hard hit, with a drastic fall on the weekend, as the number drops by half. On 26 April, there were approximately 4,600 tests. I would say a little like in La Fontaine's fable: there is no point in running, minister, we have to go at the point. I did not hear a response from the mobile teams you alluded to trying to carry out the tests in nursing homes and nursing homes more quickly. I hope that what you are announcing about the criteria will be implemented, and that there will be a much stronger enlargement by 4 May. I think I've used the time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u64	The band still has 3 minutes 30. But you still have two colleagues or comrades who want to intervene, I suppose.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u65	I'll let my colleagues intervene. I will come back with other questions. Everyone saw the reactions from hospital labs. We will ask you to consult the professionals better, in any case on the issue of serological tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u66	Mr President, I would like to thank the two ministers who have shown greater openness to our questions. The presentation of Mr. De Backer really helped us. Minister, you have shown the number of tests performed every day. Strangely enough, we arrive at figures that are significantly different from those found on the Sciensano site. How can you explain it? Minister, I have not had an answer to these pharmacies that sell FFP2 or FFP3 masks to people other than health care staff. I saw again this morning some pharmacies report the sale of 8 euro FFP2 masks for Lambda citizens. I don't think that's right. Even the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association recommends that these masks be reserved for health professionals. Madam Minister, what do you intend to do to prevent this and to ensure that these masks that are still sorely lacking by health professionals in one or the other place arrive directly at home and are not used by the Lambda citizen to go shopping, which is obviously a total ineptitude?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u67	Thank you for these presentations with actually far more answers than in previous sessions. I will come back to the medical activities and the absolute need, Minister, to coordinate the recovery, because it is important, in order to avoid a new wave of deaths that would not be caused by the VOCID-19 but by a failure to take care of the necessary medical care for chronic patients, but also for acute diseases. I think that both healthcare staff and patients need to be reassured about the process that is going to take place. We have to prepare for it, always with fear in the belly. As far as masks are concerned, I still hear a lot of good intentions but I still don't hear who goes, when and how, providing these masks to the population. And if use is necessary, then it is necessary to give the necessary means so that everyone can have it within the required time frame. If it is 4 May 2020, as indicated, it must be done within these deadlines. To have it is to have the means to distribute it and on a free basis. Recommending can't be enough. There is no question of escaping behind recommendations. Minister, we need to know, to have a clear course, right now. It's essential. I'll come back one more time to the census and testing of the health care staff. It is very positive that this census is being implemented. Let's speed it up because it's about the safety of everyone, both patients and staff. There is also the need to reassure everyone in a context that remains difficult despite the current positive signals. These signals must be supported. We must therefore continue to act, coordinate and support. Minister, I will conclude by telling you that, whatever our views, we are politicians. But today is your birthday and I wish you well!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u68	Mr President, Minister, Minister, thank you for the answers. I can thank you this week for having answered a lot of questions. Nevertheless, I have some reservations about this. Mr De Backer, on the subject of testing and mouth masks, we know that the whole world is looking for such material and that it is therefore not easy. That is why we can emphasise the importance of production in our own country. I notice that one company in Liège specializes in that. The research also seems to be concerned only with Walloon and Brussels universities. I just wonder if Flemish universities and companies do not have that expertise. Why is there this imbalance? On the exit strategy, I would like to emphasise two points, namely the importance of testing. If measures are to be relaxed, it will be important that we test as much as possible. The test capacity must therefore be increased. The point has already been made here. Compared to neighbouring countries and, for example, Germany, Belgium is free to step up its efforts. Mrs. De Block, we are not allowed to look at possible results from any of the stories. We have to look at the results or the information of hospitals, the information of the general practitioners, and the level of practice. After all, measuring is and still remains a thing of the past. About the mouth masks at the exit it is important that there are sufficient available. It must also be properly communicated. Especially for the exit strategy, communication is very important. It may be said that our government is not doing well in this area. It is therefore necessary to use mouth masks and communication.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u69	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for your explanation of the approach to making personal protective equipment available. I also understand that your department will not play a coordinating role in the strict sense of the word when cities and municipalities, individually or in group, look for PPEs. If I understand correctly, you are not afraid that there will be competition, or at least not to the extent that it will affect you. To my great pleasure, almost all my questions were answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u70	Madam and Mr Ministers, thank you for your many answers. It has long been reported to the population that wearing the mask is not necessary. That is why I believe it is essential that all practical information and instructions for use and maintenance accompany the guidelines and materials which will be distributed to all Belgians. I had also asked you about the obviously crucial role of the pharmacist in the progressive definity. It is in fact on the front line, as it is at the source of drug capacity and has a direct connection with the population – especially with people who are not tested, but who may have influenza-like symptoms. Attention should be paid to any warning signs. A specific exchange was made possible between the chronic patient and the reference pharmacist. This requires essential attention to this new stage. So I'm counting on you. Finally, we all know that screening is essential. As such, the use of full laboratory capacity will play a central role.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u71	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your information and for the detailed and effective PowerPoint. In my opinion, it was definitely worth it. Testing is one of the keys to the exit strategy. There will certainly remain questions in the future, but your pedagogy will allow us to return to the field. Indeed, citizens who sometimes find it difficult to unravel the truth of falsehood, we can understand them, remain anxious. Madam Minister, I take note of your answers to my questions on cancer and neurodegenerative diseases, such as multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and last week on chronic diseases and HIV. You share my concern about a greater risk of death or collateral damage to public health if these patients do not receive the care they need. I would not want us to suffer an even greater wave of death, caused by other diseases. It is in this sense that I asked you about the role of the general practitioner, because his discipline remains the medicine of proximity par excellence. Nothing will in fact replace an anamnesis, on the sine qua non condition that the generalist be protected. We will therefore have to remain very vigilant in this regard. Finally, I wish you a happy birthday, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u72	I would like to thank the Ministers for their comprehensive answers. Effectively, it took an hour to provide insight. I would like to mention psychological care, because we are faced with a psychological first-line care that is affordable and also reimbursed. It is a good thing that it is being extended, but there is no point in enlargement if the system is not accessible. In fact, the system should have been evaluated before enlargement. The clinical psychologists will not be very satisfied with your answer, because there is already a petition that says that this extension is in fact of no use. There is still work to be done on the budget, the thresholds and the target group. You said you were working towards the end of the convention. However, the convention is still running until 2022 and I hope that the thresholds will be removed sooner. In today's society, we really need payback psychological care, because that has become an acute concern that many people need. It is therefore sad that a great deal of budget is being provided, probably not enough for the people who need it, who are not being used. I would therefore ask you to evaluate the convention before it is concluded. You can cancel them before the end of the year and thus remove the thresholds. You have replied extensively about the start-up of chronic care, but it was not quite clear to me when which target group could get to work in what way. A general framework is needed for each target group and, of course, for hospitals, so that people know where they stand. I have the impression that there is a lot of work going on and I hope that they can be completed quickly, so that everyone knows which directives are to be followed in this dynamic restart.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u73	Minister, thank you for your PowerPoint. That said, you talked about a clean production in masks. But the question arises as to when the first mask will actually be produced in Belgium. Can you be more specific about this? You said that the purchase and control procedure was very complicated - I would say - but also very complete. Do I have to conclude that this procedure is only applied to orders placed by the federal government or that it is also applicable to orders placed by the Regions? Could you also provide me with information on the specific contract that binds the government to the pharmaceutical consortium to carry out the tests? Could you communicate the precise terms of this contract to the members of the commission or, in any case, to those interested in it? Indeed, it is normal that, in the interests of political transparency, the latter should be transmitted to us in so far as I think it does not fall within the scope of Article 81. With regard to testing capacity, on April 1st, you said that the number of tests would reach 10,000 by the end of the week, that is, on April 3rd. However, if we refer to your PowerPoint, it was theoretically a question of 10,000 tests for April 7th, whereas in practice this figure was reached on April 23rd. You say today that 25,000 tests will be carried out in six days and that the criteria will only be changed on 4 May next. So I have very serious doubts about the realism of the figures you are putting forward. Minister, you are saying that generalists will be able to test symptomatic people but not asymptomatic people, which risks creating, once again, an imbroglio of very complicated procedures. It is therefore very unlikely that everything will be ready for May 4 or 11. I'll say to conclude that I received calls from patients who wanted to know when the tests could be carried out....
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u74	Mrs Merckx, your time has expired. I'm gonna have to turn off your microphone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u75	Mr President, following Friday's press conference, there are very many questions on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u76	Mr De Backer, we will continue with the replies and you can reply afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u77	I would like to thank both ministers for their comprehensive explanations and their answers. I have indeed noticed that many questions have already been answered. I don't have that many more of them myself. I am particularly pleased to hear that so many tests are being carried out or that at least there is the capacity to carry out the tests. It is clear that this will be an important element in the fight against the virus. I understand that the recruitment of the call centre staff is being started by the regions. I therefore trust that this will happen soon. As far as the mouth masks for every citizen are concerned, I understand that there is currently a call for tenders through the Ministry of Defence and that it is not a real obligation for the municipalities to take initiatives themselves. Or did I misunderstand this? For me, it is still not quite clear what citizens can expect when and from which authorities in this area. If you could clarify that further later, I am satisfied.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u78	Minister, you have been close to 10,000 tests for a number of days, you say, but you need 35,000. Capacity processing can be increased, but will there be enough testing? It seems to me that enough testing is the responsibility of the government. The same goes for the contact tracing. On 3 March Belgium already knew what manpower was needed for the contact tracing. Eight weeks or two months later, no vacancy has yet appeared. You call that the responsibility of the regions, and I'm sure you do, but you are the coordinator, Minister! Madam Secretary, I agree that we should be careful with the exit, which is a very delicate operation. At the same time, you illustrate what I am saying: you do not have any criteria yet, yet data are being communicated. That creates enormous uncertainty among the people, Madam Secretary! Finally, Minister, you said that there was too little at the beginning of all the material. That seems to me to be a responsibility of the government too. You've both been a part of that for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u79	Minister, the consortium is a new player in the market for analysis compared to the approved labs. Rest on the ground requires transparency of the agreement. I agree with the question that has already been asked to give us this agreement so that we can take note of, among other things, the assignment and the duration. Madam Minister, it is a good thing that a working group is dealing with the file on the re-launch of "normal" care in hospitals. Let them begin quietly and make sure that the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV again controls the care provision and acts against the cowboys between the doctors, taking care to create a false perception of the expectations or intentions. That is not necessary, because then Mr De Cock will have to come and straighten it out. Let's all work together on good health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u80	Madam and Mr Ministers, thank you for your different answers. It is true that today's challenge is to avoid, in every possible and imaginable way, a rebound. It is therefore necessary to give itself the means, in particular, to maximise the barrier measures. The alternative mask is coming. Defence ordered 12 million fabric masks and 22 million reusable filters (two per person). It's a shame that this happens so late because you won't be ready for the debunking when we've known it for a long time. The other big part is "test, isolate, trace". Minister, you have given figures on this, but there is always a gap between theoretical and operational capability, for two reasons. The first is the guidelines. The minister said the doctor could have the freedom to prescribe a test. This is still not the case today, so we really have to open up. The second reason is operational concern. Indeed, for mass screening in communities, you have decided to rely primarily on the consortium. I've been telling you for a few weeks. Let's make a great alliance of laboratories! We have a much greater theoretical capacity, so we can also accelerate the effectiveness of tests for the benefit of public health. I would also like to insist that the results of the tests be given within 24 hours. Too often, this is not the case. Sometimes it takes several days. Mr De Backer, you said that the positive person in tracing would be tested by the general practitioner. That's a good thing. Conversely, the contacts will be made by the sorting stations. I plead that the attending physician should be associated and that he should be able to take care of the patients in the contacts, but also to ensure their adherence. I also insist on gloves for home nurses. The ERMG should, in my view, review the distribution of equipment since all elective activities are resumed. Finally, Minister, two promises had been made for home nurses on the fees for patient visits under the VOCID-19 and for the follow-up and monitoring of patients with problems. These two positive measures for home-based nurses have not yet been taken. What about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u81	Minister, thank you for these finally complete answers about testing. I hear things are on track, but I have to put two more specific flats. Firstly, I note the fact that approved laboratories, in particular Brussels laboratories, remain underused, at the time of today, when they can participate in the testing capacity effort. I continue to believe that they have been removed too early in our testing strategy and that, therefore, they must now be reinstated. I also believe that, beyond the ability to test, it is also necessary to ensure that the samples are properly collected, properly transported and analysed. However, you have been telling us for weeks that there have been delays between sampling and analysis. We know that the sooner we get the results, the sooner the person can be isolated if his or her contamination is confirmed. As far as fabric masks are concerned, I remain cruelly on my hunger. I think you evacuated our questions very quickly. I remain very disappointed with that. You have not given any response to your specific production and delivery strategy. How will each Belgian be able to dispose of these masks by 4 May, when it is known that the municipal administrations are closed during this long weekend of 1 May? I hear that this is an effort that must be made by all levels of power. It's a little easy. As soon as the federal government is committed to ensuring that every resident has these masks, all the more so as they will be mandatory in certain circumstances, particularly in public transit, it goes without saying that the federal government has its role to play. As far as deconfining is concerned, in a more general way, neither have I obtained any answer as regards the concerns of the experts. Why have week-to-week steps been planned when it is known that it takes 15 days to assess the positive or negative effects of the social and economic measures taken? You have not answered the question whether hospitals will be able to absorb a new influx of patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u82	I thank the Ministers for their more detailed responses. It was my understanding that the members were more satisfied with the meeting this time. There are, however, a few questions which have not been answered or which require clarification. We have planned to give another ten minutes of speaking time to each minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the charité protocol was immediately incorporated by the University of Namur for processing and use in Belgian university labs. That's what happened. As soon as I started the task force testing, we looked for ways of building as broad a consortium as possible. Clinical labs are also part of this. They can carry out tests on the site if they comply with the framework provided by the RMG. They are not excluded from certain tests. My slides show that it's very difficult because all these labs work on different protocols, machines and reagents. If 20,000 to 25,000 tests per day are to be carried out, logistics is also easier to do at a central point and not spread. If, as they claim, the clinical labs can do 11,000 tests a day, I'm very happy with that. We're gonna need them. If we want to test people with mild symptoms in the first line, we will be able to use that capacity. It should be borne in mind that, at the same time as other concerns start to arise, the PCR capacity will have to be kept available for certain investigations into other infectious diseases, cancer tests and so on. That will be a balancing exercise that we will make together with the clinical labs. I've always said we're going to create capacity. I find it a little odd that every time we do it, we confuse the ability to run tests with the number of tests we do. For example, during the weekend, yes, there is a drop in numbers. Why? Because fewer patients go to the hospital, and so there are fewer tests. There are very specific reasons for this. I think the health care staff is doing everything they can to do as many tests as possible. When a patient enters a hospital, has symptoms and needs to be hospitalized, he is tested. Yes, there are fluctuations in numbers, but there are also reasons for that. I'm really confident and it's not always because of the staff, on the contrary. As far as capacity is concerned, let us also reason in terms of scale. For example, in the white card I read today in Le Soir, it is mentioned that Germany is running 50,000 tests a day, and that we are only doing 6,000 tests a day. But if we do the calculation, Germany is 8 or 9 times more populated, and I think we reach the same proportion as Germany. I wanted to correct the content of this white card. Distribution by regions. It really depends on the number of hospitals, the number of clinical laboratories, the number of nursing homes. For nursing homes, we have these numbers, I can give them to you after this meeting. For the clinical laboratories, I will ask Sciensano to see if they can make a clear decision on the number of tests that are carried out in the different regions. For pharmacists, we need to look effectively within the RMG to see how the criteria can be extended. The regional authorities are also at the table. Production in Belgium is likely to start by the end of May 2020 because the machines have to be installed, the material has to be purchased and must come to Belgium. By mid-May the production would start in a kind of shift set-up. By the end of May 2020, the first surgical masks should be produced in Belgium. As far as contact tracing is concerned, I want to be very clear. We live in a very complex country. We try to work well together, but everyone has their responsibility. I am not the coordinator of the tracing strategy, but I did propose that we all work together to see how we can effectively put that contact research into practice. That is where we need to combine the different competences. Everyone will have to take their share of the responsibility in this. As far as the scale is concerned, I have clearly demonstrated that the capacity is there, but I have always said that everything will depend on the spread of the pandemic. If she spreads less, and there are fewer people with symptoms, then the capacity will indeed not be necessary. But we did scale them up so that the contact investigation can be conducted. The lab capacity will be available if necessary. I hope this will not be necessary, because that would mean that the pandemic in Belgium has remained under control. I have already dealt with the lack of material. Work is done and distributed through the RMG. In the meantime, I have already provided some of you with the contact details of the President of the RMG. If there are any specific questions, please report them to him. The clinical labs will indeed come on board in that area to shape the testing strategy. I think that answers most of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u84	You have not yet answered the question concerning the inspection of the agreement with the consortium. Is there a problem with that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u85	Mr President, I will give you maximum transparency on this, no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u86	Does maximum transparency mean that Members will be able to see that agreement? To be continued, no doubt. Then I give the floor to Minister De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u87	Mrs Gijbels, cohort care and home nursing are a regional competence. We are in agreement with this, but the organisation of primary care or general care takes place at that level. Mrs Van Camp, Mr Bertels, the fees for home care are being paid. That's for sure. The RIZIV is working on the nomenclature number. I expect news of that in the next few days. I will forward that, because that is indeed important to pass on to the people on the ground. If there are any deficits, they may be reported to the chief medical officer. That's Dr. Excuse me. He can make sure the necessary resources get to the right people. Mrs Tillieux, your question about contraception during a pandemic period has already been asked twice by Mrs Schlitz. My answer to this question remains the same. With regard to the question raised by Mr Prévot in connection with pharmacies selling surgical masks and FFP2, I would point out that the sale of these masks in pharmacies and stores is prohibited under a royal decree adopted last March in order to reserve these masks for those working in the health care sector. If necessary, we can decide to lift this royal decree, but I believe that this decision is not on the agenda, because we do not have enough masks to do so. Mrs. Sneppe, you talked about the importance of testing, but it's about testing and tracking. If we just run the tests and not the tracking, we'll run into the wall. That is why, as Minister De Backer said, we are all working together tremendously to monitor this, thanks to the work everywhere and the support given to the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u88	Madam Secretary, you can't track if you...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u89	Mrs Sneppe, you have a second reply after that, and we do not understand you at all. I suggest that the Minister continue and that you return to this in your reply if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u90	I have heard that we have to test and track, and I think Mrs Sneppe said that there is no point in tracking if one has not tested, but we will clear it up. Taquin, the first line bears her name; it is very important. General practitioners, pharmacists, nurses, midwives, social workers, all of these people on the front line are closest to patients. Collaboration between the front line and hospitals is also important because sometimes you have to go very fast. We were able to notice this in this crisis of the VOCID-19. Mrs Van Hoof, on the revision of the convention, I would like to point out that a government in current affairs is only competent to do so. We have gone too far to extend the convention to 18-year-olds and 65-plussers. You say that the entire convention should be reviewed. That exercise will have to be done, but it will have to be done when there is a government with full powers. That will not be an easy delivery. I can assure you of that. After all, I negotiated the previous one. Mr Bertels, restarting is indeed a much more difficult exercise than implementing the emergency plans, in which hospitals have managed to do so within three weeks. Restarting will be more complicated, knowing that about 4,000 COVID-19 patients are still in our hospitals, some of whom are still in intensive care. So choices will indeed have to be made. Things will go in steps, too. However, we must also rely on hospitals in this area. The situation in one hospital is not the same as in another hospital. We must therefore be confident that the hospitals will deal with this with the necessary care. Mrs Rohonyi, you said that it was difficult to resume the necessary consultations in a hospital in normal time while maintaining sufficient capacity in the event of a new influx of VOCID-19 patients, such as a buffer of beds in intensive care. It is clear that a balance must be struck. I thank everyone who wished me a good birthday. I hope to be home tonight for once, in my barn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u91	Madam Secretary, I too have a happy birthday, by the way. I'm afraid your children will have to put a flower in front of the door and not hand it over personally. Mother's Day is gonna be the same. We are thinking of all the people in the country who are aged today, aged yesterday or aged tomorrow and who would like to celebrate it with friends and family. I feel like we're still on schedule. We have 18 minutes left if we stick strictly to the timing. We are starting a second round of replies. N-VA may bite off the start and has 3 minutes reply time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u92	During the answer to questions I had the time to review the powerpoint presentation again. When the PPE was prioritised, the dentists and, as my colleague pointed out, the pharmacists were overlooked. I therefore urge them to be involved. As a colleague said earlier, I would also like to call for clear guidelines on the re-launch of the various medical disciplines. There is a great deal of uncertainty. I hope that it will be made clear very quickly what is allowed when and in what way, taking into account the available protection materials. It's still very difficult for me as a dentist to obtain protective equipment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u93	Thank you for the additional answers, which have been much clearer. However, the summary remains the same: there is no premium for the care staff in the care institutions. Although this was announced several times, they do not get it. Today I have heard excuses again, but the premium is not there. With regard to home care, the answer is that we have to keep an eye on the RIZIV website, but there too we only read announcement policy. There is still no nomenclature number and those nurses have still not received an amount in their accounts. Several nurses have spent thousands of euros extra on protective equipment. They cannot be quarantined at home, they must go on the job to ensure our safety and health. Personally, I would feel very bad that I still had no solution. It has become clear today that there is no solution. As far as the protective equipment is concerned, we should send an e-mail to Dr. Pardon me. However, we do not have any contact details of him, so I hope they will be given to us. From the official channel, the previously communicated website of Sciensano, I copied the answer from the chat and that reads as follows: "Sorry, we still have no material. Keep calling it in. As soon as we have material, we will give it to you." On site, especially for home nursing, there is a shortage of gloves and masks. All available material is sold at usury prices. There is still no compensation for that. I think that's really outrageous.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u94	Thank you, Mrs Van Camp. I don't see Mrs. Depoorder anymore? Did she leave us?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u95	Mr President, Mrs Depoter has problems with her connection. If she comes back before the end of the meeting, she can give her reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u96	I shall now give the floor to Mrs Creemers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u97	I actually wanted to say the same thing as Mr Van Camp about home nurses. I'd like to conclude by wishing Madam Secretary a bottle of cava for tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u98	Mr. Chair, I thank Minister De Backer for the clarity of his responses and the openness he has shown. I also stress the format adopted today, which I found much more calm and complete. I am quite pleased to be able to continue this committee in this more constructive atmosphere. I wish you a happy evening and a happy birthday to the minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u99	Mr President, I would like to thank the Ministers for their replies. I also think that today's format is better, although we have obviously had more time. We had four hours to debate. As far as testing fluctuations are concerned on weekends, I remain sceptical about the explanation advanced. The doubt is there. Nevertheless, some point to problems with the delivery of tests and the distribution of results. We will therefore remain vigilant with regard to these figures, which are fluctuating. I thank Minister De Backer for his willingness to ask Sciensano for the division of regions that I have repeatedly requested. I would be grateful if he could answer in that regard. On the other hand, I did not get an answer on the question of mobile teams who would come as reinforcements to facilitate testing, particularly from nursing homes. Has this idea been abandoned? Concerning the contract with the consortium, we would like to know more about the real terms of the agreement with the firms and, above all, how much it will cost the State overall. Madam Minister, first of all, I wish you an excellent anniversary, as my various colleagues have done. On contraception, if we rely on the question, we are not satisfied with the answer. We want pharmacies to be able to deliver contraceptives without asking for a certificate, given the reduction in consultations. Finally, on access to planning centres, (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u100	Mr President, in turn, I would like to thank the Ministers for the additional answers. Humans are very important at this time. Madam Minister, I wish you, too, an excellent and confined anniversary. I hope you can still enjoy it a bit. I just want to tell you, minister, that I am aware of this Ministerial Order as I have discussed it in my question. It turns out that today, in the field, many pharmacies continue to offer surgical masks, over-the-counter FFP2, while the nursing staff are desperately lacking these masks, especially FFP2 in one place or the other. From then on, I feel like it's still a little dull. What can you do in practice to prevent these pharmacies from selling such masks to the Lambda citizen to go shopping or otherwise, which is obviously an ineptity and to ensure that these masks are taken over first and directed to the healthcare staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u101	Mr President, I am pleased with the committee as a whole, as are most colleagues. There is still a question about possible clinical trials. For the rest, I must say that I am finally satisfied with both the form and the substance of our Health Committee. Discipline helps us move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u102	Mr President, Minister, tracking is certainly important, but one cannot track if one does not test. It's not an or-or story. It's an en-and-story. So we need more testing and more tracking. Minister, I have not yet received an answer to my question on the expertise related to the production of material and on the studies only in the French part of the country and not in the Dutch part. I have not yet received an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u103	The consortium includes people and organisations from Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. For example, VIB participates in the field of testing in Ghent. We are in complete Community order.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u104	That was not clear in your presentation, but thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u105	Mr President, I would like to thank the Ministers for the information and clarification they have provided. If the meeting went well, it was thanks to their complete answers. I still maintain what I said at the beginning of the meeting: I regret that some Members who are not the first to speak for their group do not have enough time to finish their questions. The result is a certain injustice, which I find very unfortunate. In addition, I again raise the problem of repetition. It is normal in times of crisis, but I would like us to reflect on the working method of the committee so that some members are not censored when they ask their questions and rehearses are heard. In this way, we will be able to hear the answers more quickly and then bounce back during the replicas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u106	Mrs Taquin, I suggest you come back to this at a later meeting. The only thing I want to make clear is that I'm watching the speaking time. Everyone stood up to it today. We are perfectly in the timing. As for the content of the interventions and the repetitions, I do not think it is my duty to intervene at this level. We can discuss it, but not now. We'll get back to it. If you have suggestions, you can make them by email. It is always possible to review our method of work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u107	Mr President, I thank the Ministers for their very comprehensive answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u108	Mr President, Madam Minister, thank you for this session and give you my minute as a birthday present. Enjoy it tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u109	Mr President, I would also like to thank you for the proper conduct of the debate, which seems to have received a fairly unanimous opinion as to its proper conduct, when a cacophony was not possible. You've improved the procedure. I conclude that, at the end of May, we may have the first Belgian surgical masks. It's still pretty late. Mr De Backer, I hope to receive in my mailbox the precise contracts between the consortium and the Belgian government. As far as testing ability is concerned, I am surprised to hear you come with the idea that we may not need that ability. I'll just tell you that today we had 647 positive cases. If, for example, we want to make a tracing and each one has had five contacts, that means we need at least 3,000 tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u110	I said, "I hope I don't need this," because that means that the pandemic is being controlled in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u111	Mr De Backer, we do not ask you to hope that the pandemic will go away, we ask you to take steps to ensure that it leaves. That's why we need those 25,000 tests a day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u112	The measures are taken, Mrs. Merckx.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u113	On 4 May, we will speak again to see the number of tests actually carried out. I stress that it is not normal for general practitioners to be able to test only symptomatic cases, and not, for example, contacts. They must be able to prescribe the test to all persons for whom they believe it is necessary to perform a test.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u114	A bit of lively debate, it always feels good.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u115	Mr President, I would just like to thank colleagues, ministers and yourself, as well as all the staff for the smooth running of this sitting. It was clear that the discipline was great for everyone. The way in which we have handled the debate today is probably the right way, for which we are grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u116	Minister, I do not know if you are still here, but I would like to say that of course I also know that you cannot be held responsible for the work of Minister Beke, but it is in eight weeks, two months. People have known that for so long. It is not possible that this has not been discussed. I just wanted to emphasise that. I would also like to thank you, Minister De Block, for your answer on the pedicures. In the name of many seniors, I hope they can get back to work soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u117	Minister, Minister, I still have three requests to make. The first is to have guidelines for testing, so that it opens in a wider way. It is an appeal to both the federal government and the governments of the Regions and Communities, which are associated within the RMG. The second request is to have PCR results within 24 hours. We know that this is faster for serology than for PCR, which clearly still takes too much time today. Operational knowledge with lab circuits, which know the field well, can really help speed up results. Finally, the third request concerns support for caregivers. I hope that the bonus will really be decided because they have been at the end of their forces. One must also think about the effectiveness of home nurses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u118	Minister, happy birthday! Thank you for taking the time – even if you are celebrating your birthday today – to answer all of our questions. However, there are still some questions that I did not get an answer to, but we have come a long way from the committees a few weeks ago. I think it is essential to get transparency on everything that is being done, both in terms of our parliamentary mission and in terms of the population, who are concerned and who are asking a lot of questions. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for all the communication measures that have been put in place to encourage patients to continue to call their doctor and to continue their treatment or therapy. These are essential behaviours if we are to avoid a further increase in the impact of this crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u119	Before closing the meeting, I would like to thank you for your concise efforts. This has borne fruit, since the timing has been respected. I also thank the ministers and their staff for their work on the answers, as well as the secretariat and technicians. In order to avoid any diplomatic incidents, I would point out that, during the meeting, our secretariat contacted the ministers' offices to try to set a date next week, but we were told that this was impossible. On the other hand, four hours are scheduled again on 12 May. I communicate it in the presence of the ministers because it seems to me important to discuss it with them before letting them go.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u120	Mr President, I had fallen away because of an Internet problem. However, I have heard that the reply refers to the pharmacies that sell mouth masks. A royal decision should indeed reserve the surgical mouth masks for the care sector. However, I would like to point out that my colleagues sell those mouth masks, comfort masks, to their patients. As Minister De Backer has just explained, surgical mouth masks that have not been approved for the care but can be used as a comfort mask. I just wanted to mention that correction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u121	Mr President, Mrs Depoter, the question was about surgical and FFP2 masks and not about comfort masks, which may indeed be sold.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u122	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u123	Mr President, it is not possible on Tuesday because I am expected in the afternoon in the Committee on Social Affairs. On Monday there will be the COOVID-19 committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u124	Apparently, Wednesday or Friday wouldn't work either? I assume you're expected at the core every morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u125	Friday is the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Women's Rights. I still have to check my schedule for Wednesday, but I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u126	Does Minister De Backer have to go to all these meetings?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u127	Mr President, I must be present at the meetings of the core. I also have to go to the Social Affairs Committee on Tuesday. On Wednesday there is a meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic160x.u128	Mrs De Block, I understand you're still looking for a moment to be available to the committee. I thank both ministers.
