ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u1	Colleagues, welcome to this last sitting of the Committee on Mobility of the 2019-2020 parliamentary session. We conclude with a series of questions to Minister Bellot. Yesterday, we took stock of the session at committee meetings with questions. Minister, you have come ten times, including this meeting and, according to statistics, you would have answered 547 oral questions. I don't know if they count those that have been turned into written or abandoned questions along the way, but that number is impressive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u2	Mr Minister, the preparation of large-scale works on the Oosterweel connection is under way in and around Antwerp. These works will take years and it is an important project, not only for Antwerp and the port but also for the whole of Flanders as it will have to open up one of the most congestion-sensitive areas of the country better. In order to solve mobility problems during and after the works, SNCB will have an important role to play as a public transport provider, especially for modal shift. Minister, what policy does SNCB have to support the construction of the Oosterweel connection? How can SNCB provide support in reducing the expected traffic impact? What is the state of play of the roll-out of services on the Antwerp ring track mentioned in SNCB's Transport Plan 2020-2023?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u3	Mr Minister, work on the Oosterweel connection has started, as Mr Roggeman said. Project Manager Lantis already updates the end date until 2030, five years later than was recently envisaged. The works will cause a lot of traffic problems in the coming years. During the work on the Antwerp Ring in 2004, SNCB took additional measures to cope with the increased traffic pressure. Then there were 16,500 additional seats, 70 additional train connections and also some new stops. SNCB announced in June this year a study to see if it could again transport passengers on the entire ring track around Antwerp. At present, a large part of it is only used for freight transport. Through this ring track, for example, employees can trace to the companies in the port of Antwerp. Mr Minister, my questions partly correspond to what Mr Roggeman has already asked you about. What measures will SNCB plan in the coming years during the works in and around Antwerp? Is there going to be a reboot on more seats? What additional train connections will be used? How far is the investigation into the opening of stations on the ring track around Antwerp? Will there be any re-opening of stations, such as Antwerp-Haven, Antwerp-Dam or Antwerp-Oost? From when would that be possible and at what frequency would the trains run?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB is involved in the discussions on road works on Oosterweel and in the Waasland. It follows the reasoning that, in the context of the work on the Oosterweel connection and the Slim to Antwerp action, as many drivers as possible should be encouraged to make the switch to public transport, in order to offer car drivers a full and interesting alternative. It is also intended to increase the supply on the Puurs-Antwerpen-Essen railway line. As a result of this expansion of the offer, the number of S trains and peak hour trains between Sint-Niklaas and Antwerp had to be distributed differently. A less good distribution of the trains was the result. Following the works around Antwerp, the number of free seats on the train between Sint-Niklaas and Antwerp was investigated. On average, there are still enough free seats to accommodate additional passengers. SNCB will continue to monitor the needs of seats and, if necessary and if possible, improve the composition of trains. For the employees in the port on Linkeroever, the Beveren station can act as a hub for the transfer from train to bus from De Lijn towards the port companies and vice versa. Your questions about the use of the ring railway around Antwerp are currently being studied in the framework of the new transport plan of SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I am glad that SNCB is already sitting around the table and actively taking part in practical solutions. I hope, however, that in the short term this may lead to concrete answers to the questions relating to the organisation of the ring track and any additional capacity on that route. The cornerstones of the new transport plan have already been laid. I am therefore somewhat surprised that there is still no clarity on this point. In any case, SNCB has a crucial role to play, not only in short-term works. At the same time, of course, they also create opportunities in the longer term. At the same time, the increased congestion and traffic difficulties that are coming in the coming months and years are also an opportunity and opportunity to convince car drivers of the added value of rail transport, in the hope that they will continue to opt for this mode in the long term and that we can thus also make a structural contribution to reducing traffic congestion in and around Antwerp.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. We must not underestimate the pressure that the work on the Oosterweel link can bring on the roads. I am therefore pleased that SNCB will monitor this and see if there are enough seats. Like Mr Roggeman, I find it strange that the use of the ring railway around Antwerp for passenger transport is being considered in the new transport plan. So far, there have been few answers. I think it's time for some commuters to discover the train. If there is to be a lasting good relationship between the new travellers and SNCB, there must be sufficient comfort. There must therefore indeed be sufficient seats available. It may also be possible to consider ways of making it financially more attractive to take the train in that zone of Antwerp, by extending it to a number of stations on the ring track. I'm sure I'll keep following up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u7	Minister, in 2008 the then government decided to allow a bicycle fee for SNCB employees. We are now twelve years later and still do not receive bicycle fees from Infrabel or SNCB. Public enterprises could be expected to set a good example to the private sector. The bicycle fee is one of the topics in the social agreement on which no agreement has yet been found between the employees and the management of our railway companies. That is why I have a few questions, Minister. What progress has been made in negotiating a social agreement with the railway companies? What elements have already been agreed? What other elements cause conflict? Will a bicycle fee be introduced? If so, how much will that fee be? Will SNCB, as in many other sectors, contribute more widely to the subscriptions of other public transport companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u8	Mr Minister, the question that I tabled some time ago had to be postponed to the previous committee, because I could not be present. Minister, the containment imposed by the VOCID-19 pandemic has necessarily slowed down a significant number of activities, as physical meetings must be avoided. This is why the ongoing social negotiations with HR Rail have not been able to continue. Today, we learn that the directorates of SNCB and Infrabel wish to postpone the conclusion of this social agreement until next year. This request is legitimate if and only if it is part of the mutual trust that must surround these negotiations. Thus, it would not be understood that only certain measures were implemented by management, while the negotiations as a whole had not yet been concluded. I am thinking, for example, of the weekly increase in working hours or the new career plan for executives. Do you therefore confirm that a postponement of social negotiations in railway undertakings must be accompanied by a moratorium in the implementation of all the measures concerned by the said social negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u9	The draft social protocol agreement that was on the table at the beginning of 2020 included a number of mobility issues, such as the introduction of a fee for the use of a bicycle or an equivalent vehicle to encourage that mode of movement, an evaluation of the reimbursement of commuting costs or a broader reflection exercise on the different mobility solutions in order to strengthen sustainable mobility, and to allow those solutions to become more applicable to railway staff. At that time, the trade unions had refused to accept the draft protocol. It was planned to resume discussions from last March to conclude in September or October. The health crisis has, however, forced railways to focus on managing its consequences and is still in this phase. Although, during this period, social consultation has continued in various forums on several important issues, a resumption of discussions on the next social agreement is not yet on the agenda, given these exceptional circumstances. Therefore, the consultation will start as soon as they are almost entirely behind us – as soon as possible, we hope.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u10	Minister, I understand, of course, that the COVID-19 crisis has made it more difficult to continue discussions between the various parties. However, I hope that these talks will soon be speeded up again. I think that we are all convinced that enthusiastic and involved employees are just a dream for every company and that public enterprises should actually set an example of good human resources policy. I still miss that too much. I am pleased to learn that the example agreement would indeed include measures for sustainable mobility. Bicycle and train are an ideal combination. We must also have the courage to support that. Bicycle fees must be part of that social agreement. I hope, together with you, that this will be dealt with quickly, because I believe that workers are entitled to a strong agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, you did not answer the specific question I asked you. I hear that the negotiations have not yet resumed and that we are talking about a one-year postponement. But the workers' representatives wonder whether there will be a form of leadership change over certain elements that were the subject of negotiations, such as weekly working hours, for example. Minister, I asked you whether you thought there was a need for a moratorium to ensure that the measures in question were implemented only when there was a definitive social agreement. That was the subject of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u12	Mr Delizée, I do not intervene in negotiations at any level. I'm not a party. The model of consultation exists, it needs to be continued and agreements reached as soon as possible. But I have never seen a minister intervene in the social negotiations, nor have I ever seen a minister intervene in the social negotiations, nor in the points raised in their framework. It is not my intention – this has never been the case – to intervene in the various points that are part of the union negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u13	I do not ask you to intervene on the merits and to pronounce yourself in favour of one thesis or another. I say that, after the delay resulting from the health crisis, negotiations must continue and management must not, in the meantime, implement certain measures which are the subject of those negotiations. Having said that, I understand that you were giving me a diplomatic answer that could be described as Normand's answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u14	Minister, a lot of ink has flowed over the free Rail Pass. You know how things are in this house with the lead times of the oral questions. I still have a few specific questions. How do you intend to respond together with SNCB to the concerns expressed by the GEES on public health? What is the final cost of this initiative? How much of this will SNCB itself carry? How much is the State Treasury taking care of? Do you consider this to be a responsible use of public money? So far, I have never seen a supporter of free politics in you. How will the applicant's identity check be checked? We must avoid some Rail Passes being offered for sale on the internet in the foreseeable future. That would be abuse of the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u15	My question also deals with the tickets. There is an agreement between the government and SNCB to grant the free tickets. For six months, every Belgian resident will be entitled to two free journeys per month. That's 12 free rides in total for every resident. On the SNCB site, everyone can view and read the conditions to receive free rides. However, the conditions are not less. The train pass is valid between 17 August 2020 and 28 February 2021. Travel can only take place from August 17th, and not before 9:00 a.m. during the weekends in August. What bothers us most is that it will only be possible to apply online. This will cause those who need the train pass to fall out of the boat the most. That is why I have a number of questions. If we know that almost half of our population is struggling with new digital media, why can't we apply for the free train pass at the window? Can the clerk not assist the customer in his request? If it is of such great importance to continue to spread the passengers, why is the free train pass limited in time, namely until February 2021? From when can the train pass be applied for? How many free train passes do SNCB expect to have to hand out?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u16	The Rail Passes will be delivered to those who request one. It is therefore premature to talk about the distribution of millions of Rail Passes. The product will take the form of a train pass in name and on request. It will be made available to any resident of that country, over 12 years of age, who makes the application. Children under the age of 12 already travel for free. The free train pass includes 12 journeys and will be useful for a period of 6 months at a rhythm of 2 journeys per month, after 9 a.m. in the week and not on weekends during the month of August. The distribution of the use of the train pass over a period of 6 months should ensure a better distribution of the passenger flow. Interested parties will only be able to make their request via a web form with telephone assistance if necessary, and thus not via the booths in the stations. The train pass will then be sent by post. Applications are possible until 30 September 2020. In the current circumstances of the health crisis, we want to avoid all Belgian residents turning to the ticket office to apply for their train pass. SNCB therefore opted for an online application through which the train pass can be applied for. SNCB considers that this is the most accessible way to distribute the free train passes. Its most experienced sales staff are available whenever necessary. All measures are taken, both on the part of SNCB and on the part of the government, so that the online application form would be operational by the beginning of August. That period is needed to develop the digital platform and set up the distribution chain, for which public procurement will be launched. It is therefore too early to answer your practical questions about identity checks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u17	Mr Minister, you say that it is too early to answer the practical questions about identity checks, but I hope that SNCB will find an answer to them in the next few weeks, if it does not risk attacking SNCB itself. It is easy to apply for those tickets and sell them below the market price of a ticket sold at the counter. If we do not find an answer to this, we risk increasing the cost to SNCB by any abuse. One of my questions was also the cost of this. Can you indicate the amount foreseen for this initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u18	I do not know, an amount of EUR 100 million is mentioned. I think it is necessary to evaluate the attraction of the Rail Pass.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u19	Minister, I think this is a missed opportunity. In the newspaper I read an article about someone who works with low-school adults in a centre for basic education. That person said it's going to be very difficult for this group because they can't get along with a computer. It would be much easier for those people if they could reach the point of contact. In Flanders, 1 adult in 5 is not very good with computers and technology. The bar is therefore often higher and higher at the bottom of our society. I am therefore very sorry that this initiative does not benefit this group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u20	Minister, SNCB's annual passenger census 2019 was recently published. It is striking that, as every year, there are very large discrepancies between the different stations and stops. In particular, some stops were registered with a very low number of step-ups, in the size of up to 20 people per day. I would like to hear from you your views on keeping such stops open, where there are hardly any passengers. Are you in favour of a demand-driven supply? Is it therefore profitable to keep these stations as stops? Does SNCB have guidelines on the number of passengers that must be reached at least before a stop point can be considered profitable? When you arrived as Minister a few years ago, you announced that you were not planning to close any stop. Are you still in favour of that? Do you hold on to that choice? Is it true that every stop site involves a risk of delay?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u21	Dear colleague, the format of the stations and the frequency of operation on weekdays, weekends and public holidays are laid down in the management contract 2008-2012. Thus, the operation of certain stations which are not visited at weekends usually meets the wishes of the Belgian State to provide a service. The management contract of SNCB sets minimum operating thresholds and minimum operating frequencies depending on the category of the station or type of stop. There are main stops, secondary stops, stops only served during peak hours, and stops with a special status. As this is a public service, the management contract provides for a minimum service that meets citizens' demands. The Belgian State ensures that as many people as possible have access to mobility along that road. Given the challenges of climate and sustainable mobility and the financial results of SNCB over the past two years, it is more necessary than ever to provide alternatives to the car for as many people as possible. When a station is closed, intermodality between the different modes of transport must be organised more efficiently in what remains of the station, or a new car park must be built at the stations that remain in service. There is no connection between the number of stops and the punctuality. The proof of this is that the long-distance IC trains and P-trains, which hold less stops than the L-trains, are still less punctual than the L-trains.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation. I understand from your reply that keeping stations open where hardly any passengers leave is in line with the wishes of the Belgian State for the service. It is a pity that you do not at least allow the opening to evaluate whether there are better and more efficient methods. I would remind you of the words of Mr Luc Lallemand at the time of his farewell as CEO of Infrabel. He knew no greater waste of public money than keeping some very uneconomic and underutilised railway lines open. I also doubt that it is such a good option for the climate to have trains run and stop at stations where hardly any passengers leave. Running trains also requires energy and consumption. If there is hardly any use of transport, it is just as much a waste of precious energy. In this respect, I would like to call for a supply that is demand-driven, not only because of SNCB but also because of public transport in general. It makes sense for us to realise and develop an offer where there is an effective demand for transport. Where this question is too small to justify a fixed service, there are other options and I think it would be appropriate to consult, for example, regional transport companies to look for alternatives and other modes of transport that are more efficient in terms of costs and benefits and which, who knows, may also be more interesting for users themselves, for example in the form of telephone buses.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u23	Mr President, Minister, this is a more technical question about the recovery braking system, which can be implemented on the electrically operated locomotives that make up the majority of SNCB's rolling stock. Regenerative braking means that energy is recovered by means of inhibition, since an electric motor, present in electric trains, can also act as a generator, thus reducing energy consumption. This way of working is already used abroad, for example in the London metro, where it achieves 1 megawatt hour per day of energy saving. Mr President, to what extent is this braking method and technology also applied to SNCB's trains? How much energy can be recovered in this way and what does that share represent in total energy consumption? If the method is not yet applied or is barely applied, what possibilities do you see for further implementation of this technology with a view to reducing energy consumption, which can also contribute to the impact on the climate?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u24	Mr Roggeman, SNCB informs me that recuperative braking is one of the measures it is taking to increase the energy efficiency of travel by train. This technology has been around for a long time. All the engines put into service since 1980 and all the locomotives purchased since 1990 can brake recuperatively. Especially due to the influx of the 305 engines of the Desiro series, eight years ago, with a very high recovery potential, this form of energy saving has greatly increased. On average, 2 megawatthure is returned to the overhead line per 1,000 kilometers per motorset at the time of braking. All motor sets of this series run about 100,000 kilometers per day, so the use of these motor sets alone produces about 200 megawatts of electricity per day when braking. A locomotive of type 18, the most recent type, can develop an electrical power up to 5 megawatts during braking. SNCB's trains consume around 1,080 gigawatts of electricity each year. With the system of braking recovery, SNCB can also save 10% to 15% on the electricity consumption of its trains. At present, all Desiro and all series 18 and 19 locomotives are equipped with energy meters. The absorbed and recovered energy is measured and the measurement data is used, inter alia, to coach the train drivers to drive even more energy-efficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u25	Minister, I am pleased that it has been actively applied for several years and I hope that it will continue to be so in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u26	Minister, I have already asked this question once before, but your services referred it to Minister Muylle. As Minister Muylle indicated that air traffic is not within her competence, but indeed under the responsibility of the Minister for Mobility, I would like to put it to you. European airspace has recently been opened up to tourists. Many airlines have recently been involved in advertising campaigns to recruit travellers. At the same time, however, there are complaints about the ghost flights of airlines. These are cheap flight offers which are then immediately cancelled. Other flights to the same destination are then offered at much higher prices. The airlines then offer a voucher to the consumer, but they do not comply with their obligation to make an immediate refund or to propose an alternative flight at no extra cost. We must, of course, understand that airlines are in difficult times today. However, it is not possible for the consumer to book a flight before mid-July, which will then be cancelled immediately, while he or she can only rebook on payment of a serious charge. This is soon reminiscent of consumer deception and abuse of the situation. Minister, are you aware of the problems? How many complaints have you received about this? Have you discussed this with the airlines? Do you have an overview of the number of cancellations of flights that have only been booked for a few days? What guarantee is there that this practice will not last for an entire summer? Will it be verified whether the above mentioned price increases of the tickets are reasonable and market-oriented or whether they are deliberate price increases by the airline? How will you combat these practices? Have you discussed this with your European colleagues?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u27	Indeed, it may well be that there is misleading advertising or any other form of market practices affecting consumers, but it is not because they are happening in the aviation sector that DGLV is competent in this area. DGLV's competence in consumer rights is limited to monitoring compliance with the rules laid down in Regulation (EEC) No 261/2004. DGLV supervises the obligations of the airlines after a cancellation. In other words, as long as they allow for free conversion and reimbursement, in some cases compensation, that is in order for DGLV. The regulation cited only defines rights for individual consumers who are victims of denied boarding, cancellation or delay and are therefore almost exclusively applicable post factum, except for certain information obligations. They have no reason to plan the flights and the intention to cancel in the short term. Such practices should be regarded as misleading commercial practices within the meaning of the Economic Law Code. In our view, in the case of so-called ghost flights, it is rather a misleading representation of the nature of the product or possibly misleading information on the main characteristics of the product, such as availability, benefits and risks, rather than the non-respect of passenger rights post factum. The problem for DGLV remains exactly what the airline should offer when rebooking. The Regulation provides that another flight is to be provided at the next opportunity or at a later date at the choice of the passenger, if no seat is available. If no place is available within a reasonable period of time, the airline must refund a ticket through another carrier. Should the cost of this be reasonable? There is still no agreement between Member States and DGLV on this. The national enforcement authorities, as provided for in Article 16 of Regulation No. Nor did 62/2004 adopt a clear position. Moreover, customer services are very difficult to reach to arrange a rebooking. In view of the exceptional situation, a certain tolerance is allowed for the time limits. However, the Passenger Rights Service has already proactively communicated this to air carriers on several occasions and clearly pointed out to them their obligation to refund and offer vouchers to passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u28	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It is particularly striking to hear that you want to put the ball back in Minister Muylle's camp. She has rightly made herself very angry about this. She has also made it clear that she has repeatedly asked you to act together against the problem. It seems, however, that it is not in your nature to seek a concrete solution in this matter. You're referring to certain uncertainties. However, the rules in this area are very clear. Moving a flight to a later date is all well and good, but no additional costs should be charged for that. The rules are very clear. You are also talking about a certain tolerance that needs to be shown. I have already stated in my question that I can understand very well that the airlines are in a difficult situation. However, that is no reason to break the rules. This must not be at the expense of passengers. I didn't hear you answer all the questions either. I also asked you whether you had already discussed the dossier at European level. You did not answer that question. However, such consultation is urgently needed, as this will allow more pressure to be put on. So, frankly, I'm disappointed. I therefore hope that you will stand up for the rights of passengers and finally do your job.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u29	Mr President, Minister, Ombudsrail recently published the annual report for the year 2019, which said that 3.881 complaints could be received last year. It is a good thing that travellers find their way to Ombudsrail, but it is a pity that there is still so much cause for complaint. In the first place, the category of delays and compensation has been the subject of complaints for many years. I have a number of questions about the policy you and SNCB are pursuing in this area. What exoneration clauses are in place today by SNCB which give rise to the avoidance of compensation? When was the last time they were evaluated? Are adjustments planned in the near future? With regard to the contract segmentation with foreign rail companies, I would have liked to know how SNCB makes agreements with other foreign rail transport operators. Is there regular consultation? Are the terms uniform with abroad? Does SNCB regularly receive questions from foreign carriers with claims for damages in the context of foreign contract segmentation? What do you consider to be the competent minister of the proposal submitted by Ombudsrail to revise the exoneration clauses and contract segmentation in favour of passengers? Do you support this call? Or don't you want to respond to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u30	Mr President, Minister, Ombudsrail's annual report was published at the end of June. This is an important report, because there are a number of points of concern about the service provided by SNCB. That's how the ombudswoman denounces the exoneration clause. SNCB shall exempt itself from any consequential damage in its conditions of transport. This can be about a traveler who misses his international train connection or flight after delay of the train towards the departure station or airport. According to the ombudsmen's service, this exoneration clause is contrary to legislation, in particular to consumer law contained in the Code of Economic Law. In order for SNCB to become a transport link to and from the airport, which it claims in many of its campaigns, it is also necessary to improve the provision of services. You can apply for compensation until six months after the date, but the delay attestations will disappear after seven days of the website. When travellers subsequently inform them of precise information, they do not receive that information. That's not exactly customer-friendly. By using separate contracts for one journey, SNCB undermines the spirit of the current passenger rights directive. In a new directive under way, it is expected that this practice will be strengthened. By splitting up contracts, there are thresholds for international rail traffic, which we do not want to see. Are you aware that SNCB's transport conditions are a violation of consumer law? Why is SNCB doing this? What will you do to reverse this violation? Why does SNCB set thresholds for travellers applying for compensation for successive delays? What will you do to ensure that SNCB makes the necessary information available to its passengers? SNCB continues to use separate contracts for one transfer. What argument does she use for that? What is your position on this practice? What will you do to ensure that SNCB puts passenger rights first and stops this way of working?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u31	Mrs Buyst, Mr Roggeman, to the questions you are asking me, SNCB has given me a very detailed and legal answer. The answers are therefore several pages long. I suggest that I do not read these answers here, but that I deliver them to you in writing. I'll get you a document with the answers to your different questions. After all, your questions often overlap. The document has five pages.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. In the meantime, it's been delivered to me by your cabinet clerk. I think it is very promising that SNCB considers it necessary to provide a detailed legal response to our questions. It might also be an indication of the fact that we're hitting a sensitive chord here. In any case, I will read the answer with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u33	Minister, I assume I will get the answers in my mailbox. Thank you for that. I think it indicates that passenger rights are incredibly important. If we want customer loyalty, then passenger rights are a very important aspect. In particular, I hope to read in those answers that SNCB takes into account the concerns of Ombudsrail and the annual report and wishes to address them. I'll read the answer with great interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u34	Mrs Buyst, it is a short answer with a good annex. If you are not satisfied, you can of course submit another question in September or October.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u35	Minister, earlier this week we received representatives of the rail freight sector in this committee. Those people had a lot of groceries for us. In the comments made by the speakers, the central indication was that the unity and coordination of the organisation of rail freight transport could be improved, especially with regard to infrastructure management and path allocation. In their explanatory statement, they all referred to the need for a future pact for rail freight transport. That is an important signal that we, as policy makers, cannot simply ignore. I would therefore like to hear from you the extent to which you are prepared to consult with Infrabel and evaluate a number of things, including the reimbursement of the lanes. It has also been adapted abroad, particularly as a result of the corona crisis. I refer to the Netherlands and Germany, where freight transport has been supported through a master plan. What additional measures are you planning in the medium term to support rail freight transport in response to the corona crisis and reduced traffic? Are you, as a guardian minister, in a future future willing to take on a role in the elaboration of a future pact?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u36	Mr President, the European Commission has submitted a proposal for a regulation to allow infrastructure managers to temporarily reduce, exempt or postpone the charging for the use of railway infrastructure for the period from 1 March to 31 December 2020. That proposal should be discussed with the Member States and the European Parliament. We are in favour of providing in Belgium for the cost of infrastructure charging for railway undertakings carrying goods once the Commission proposal has been adopted. This proposal should be the subject of a legislative initiative which will be discussed with the various actors, such as the infrastructure manager. In addition, the extension of the current aid scheme for combined and distributed transport is currently being examined by the European Commission services. This extension should take place on 1 January 2021.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand from the explanatory statement that there is already a draft system for the new system of combined and distributed transport. I note that because the sector has made some constructive suggestions on this subject this week, not so much for an extension but also for a drastic revision of that system. I therefore hope that you have also given the sector the opportunity to make those comments and that you have then taken them into account in your draft, which you have recently submitted to the European Commission. We are indeed looking forward to the forthcoming regulation. I hope that you will continue to organise an efficient timetable for freight transport, regardless of European policy. It is also a public secret that the goods sector and Infrabel have sometimes been at odds over the past few months. I think it's important that you, as a custody minister, can take a mediocre role in that. If the rail transport companies collectively call for a joint development of a future pact for the sector, this is an important signal that we, as policy makers, cannot just ignore us. On the contrary, we must take that into account in order to achieve a vision of the future which can provide a basis for each player and every person concerned for the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u38	Minister, this is not the first time we have discussed the impact of the corona crisis on SNCB. Last week we also had the opportunity to discuss this with Mrs Dutordoir herself. I will not go into detail about all the aspects I have explained in the written version of my question, but I would like to take up a particular question that I have already put to you and to Mrs Dutordoir, but why I am still in the dark. We all know that social distance is particularly important in these times. That's what we get every week from all the experts and the virologists. The fact that we in Parliament are now being urged to wear a mouth mask is a direct consequence of that, but we all know that it is a matter of time before we will be in difficulty with regard to rail transport. We are already seeing a steady increase in the use of public transport. The busy lines are again becoming more crowded, the number of passengers increases: week after week this is in increasing line. How will we ensure that after the summer, when schools reopen and many workers start up their activities, the social distance of one and a half metres on the train will be guaranteed? A lot of pistes are explored abroad, for example the application of plexiglass, the covering of chairs and so on. You have heard the examples on a regular basis, so I do not need to repeat them. You are also well aware of this, so it is all the more regrettable that SNCB has not taken any initiatives at all. In what way will we guarantee that public transport can take place in all safety when it will become more crowded and social distance will not be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u39	Mr Roggeman, SNCB informs me that for the time being it does not have any additional answer elements than those which were discussed extensively at the special hearing on this subject on 8 July. I have nothing to add to that for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u40	Minister, your answer is not entirely unexpected and I cannot do anything other than repeat my concern about what is to happen. We know that the trains are becoming busier and we know that social distance will not be guaranteed. We've known that for months, and it's like an ice flop that we're headed straight for. We know they have been lying for months and yet we continue straight ahead. So I regret that SNCB is still not taking an initiative, thank you for the many good initiatives that have already been taken and the commitment of many people. Foreign railway undertakings will, however, take additional measures to ensure social distance while SNCB does not. I regret that, and I had hoped that you would be able to support that message as a custody minister with SNCB so that additional measures would be taken. I understand that this has still not been the case, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u41	Minister, SNCB's annual report states that tickets sold online are becoming increasingly important. Over the whole year 2019 this amounted to 17% of the total number of tickets sold. In December 2019 alone, the figure was 20%. This share is expected to increase significantly. This digitisation is good news, but we still notice that SNCB is carrying out digitisation by hand brake. For example, Ombudsrail complains in its annual report that tickets sold online or via the app do not offer the same terms of sale as tickets purchased at the ticket counter or at the vending machine. Tickets purchased from the ticket office or the vending machine will be refunded by SNCB until the day before the travel date or up to 30 minutes after purchase. Tickets purchased via app or website do not pay the SNCB back or exchange them. That difference in treatment cannot be explained and shows little confidence in digitisation. Recently we were able to read that more and more tickets are sold via third parties. For example, more tickets would be sold via the KBC app than via the SNCB app. We also read in the annual report of Ombudsrail that travellers with questions and complaints are sent from the cabinet to the wall. KBC refers to Olympus Mobility, the platform Mobility as a Service with which they work. Olympus refers to SNCB and SNCB again to Olympus. Ombudsrail reports that Olympus Mobility eventually accepted mediation on terms of reimbursement, but what about the other? Mobility as a Service should make travelers easier, not more difficult. Why are the refund conditions for tickets purchased online different compared to tickets purchased at the counter or at the vending machine? What is your position on the difference in treatment of these tickets? What will you do to ensure that SNCB brings its terms of sale for all tickets on an equal footing, on which platform they were purchased? How do you explain that SNCB has not included in its contracts with third party vendors agreements relating to the complaint regime? What is your position on this situation? An agreement was reached with Olympus Mobility. What about the other platforms? How can we offer passengers who purchase their tickets through third parties equal passenger rights? What will you do?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u42	SNCB informs me that the terms of a refund for a banknote sold online are indeed not quite the same as for a banknote purchased from a vending machine. The reason for this is technical in nature and aims to reduce the risk of fraud. It is true that the train escorts of SNCB do not yet have a system to check whether or not an online purchased banknote printed as a PDF file was refunded. SNCB is currently working on a solution to this problem. Once this has been done, the conditions for reimbursement of sales between the different channels will be brought into line. SNCB also lets me know that in its contracts with third-party sellers she has made clear agreements on the complaints regime. Any third party seller selling the train tickets through a multimodal mobility platform signed general and special conditions for distribution through that multimodal mobility platform with SNCB. Therefore, these conditions provide that the third party seller or contracting party is responsible for handling questions or complaints relating to the purchase of transport tickets and the service offered on the platform of the contracting party. SNCB, in turn, deals with all questions or complaints concerning the execution of the train service, requests for compensation in connection with train delays, responses related to fines and complaints about stations and SNCB infrastructure. For these topics, the platform for multimodal mobility and the online application of the contracting parties are the first contact point. To this end, a link to the web formulation is provided for each subject. The SNCB parties shall treat each contact by the traveller and business customers as a minimum, in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation in force. 1371/2007 of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 23 October 2007 on the rights and obligations of rail passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u43	Mr President, Minister, mobility as a service is in the word itself. The real aim is to offer mobility as a service to travellers. Digitisation really is a cornerstone of that. It is important that SNCB continues to use this digitization, not only in terms of the purchase of tickets but also, as we have regularly pointed out in committee, in terms of indicating the traffic on trains but also in terms of the composition of the trains, so that fewer mobile passengers know where to get on the train. So let us focus on digitisation and make sure that it is an additional asset that makes it even easier for passengers to take the train. I therefore hope that SNCB will continue to do so and that we will be able to take major steps forward in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u44	Mr Minister, this is perhaps the last time of the political year that my colleagues from the Kempen and I have interplayed with you, again, on the deployment of train equipment to and in the Kempen. In the autumn of last year, I did so, together with several colleagues, when it was announced that the Desirostellen would be replaced by the MR75 trains, the so-called pig noses, which we know well in the Kempen. Those trains are unheard of in times of summer temperatures, as they are today, and in times of corona. Rightly in view of the health crisis, travellers are obliged to put on a mouth mask in a squirt-hot train without air circulation. SNCB has been waiting for more than a year for the delivery of 445 new M7 trains. The first would be delivered in 2018. As far as we are concerned, they must also improve comfort for the Kempian region. The new train sets will probably run on the large axles, which would allow us to use the double-decker M6, with air conditioning, on our lines in the Kempen. You yourself stated at the committee meeting of 1 October 2019: "The inflow of the M7 will allow more M6 vehicles to drive on the Turnhout-Binche IC connection from 2021." However, it has now been announced that the M7 trains are being delayed again by the corona crisis. Only 47 train sets would be delivered this year. The production had to be reduced by social-distancing measures. It says in the newspaper 'cause that's where we had to read it. It says that, above all, this will mean that the M4 double-deckers will have to drive longer without air conditioning and with asbestos. Mr Minister, with great urgency I have the following questions. Does the delay in the delivery of the M7 trains have an impact on the train equipment used in the Kempen? If so, what does that mean specifically for the connections Turnhout-Binche, Brussels-Mol, Antwerp-Hamont and Antwerp-Turnhout, the lines that cross our region? What measures will SNCB take to improve passengers' comfort to and in the Kempen? Is it ensured that trains with air conditioning are used as much as possible during the peak moments? During the summer period, SNCB operates with an adapted timetable. Is there any possibility of scaling up for the Desirostellen pending the renewed equipment? We really need it in the Kempen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u45	Mr President, Minister, my predecessor asked mainly about the effects on the M4 vehicles, but I still have the additional question about the impact on the M6 sets. For us, the M7 trains were not yet directly planned, but the M6 sets, which are connected with them. Will the delayed and reduced delivery of the M7 train sets affect the M6 train sets in our Kempen? Will the M7s be coming to the Kempen in the long run? If so, when and on what routes? Moreover, I do not understand how the corona crisis could have caused a delay on that scale in the production of M7 sets. I think you're quoting a misdemeanor. Our city was able to keep its staff working during the corona crisis. The staff has been working very hard and catching up. How then is it possible that there has been such a delay in a production environment where you can make employees work in a safe way?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u46	Mr President, Minister, as a result of the Corona epidemic, the delivery of the new double-deck trains, the M7s, has been partially postponed. The train passengers will therefore have to travel a little longer with the old trains. The railway company will not receive the 66 M7 trains promised this year. While the company wanted to put 113 M7 trains into service this year, there will only be 47. The delay is due to the application of social-distanting measures. I can understand that, Mr Van Camp. SNCB looks forward to the new trains, but the delivery has been postponed several times by Alstom and Bombardier. For example, only one M7 was delivered to SNCB in 2019. Due to the slow deliveries, the M4 trains, which have no air conditioning, contain asbestos and are regularly defective, will continue to drive around. SNCB actually wanted to take those trains from circulation in the 1980s. In the Kempen, meanwhile a moving railway museum where a lot of old material is tufting around, you could rely on newer material because of SNCB. The M6 would be used more often, but these plans are still at risk of slowing down, just like the additional capacity from Mol-Hamont electrification. What are the consequences of the later delivery of equipment for the Kempian travellers? When will the Kempen see additional new material riding around on its lines? How will the inconvenience be reduced for the traveller? The delivery of the carriages M7 was delayed several times. What steps will SNCB take with regard to the manufacturer to reduce the delay and to compensate for its additional costs caused by the delay? In the meantime, is there a new timetable for the delivery of the M7 carriages? Can you share this with us?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u47	Mr Minister, can you reassure our colleagues in the Kempen to some extent?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, as we know, tests were carried out with the M7 sets for months. During the last semester of 2019, driving tests took place without passengers. Afterwards, in January and February 2020, tests were carried out on commercial relations during peak hours in real conditions, with a large number of passengers on and off the entire route. That test period ensured the proper functioning of all the technical components in detail, ranging from the lighting on the air conditioning system to the opening of the doors and the smooth running of the passenger entry and exit flows at each stop. Supplier Bombardier was informed of the latest small details that still have to be resolved or if necessary corrected. In view of the interruption of work between March and May as a result of the sanitary crisis, this is still being finalised. Furthermore, at the hearing of the Commission on 8 July 2020, SNCB's CEO Sophie Dutordoir pointed out the impact of the sanitary crisis on the production times of the M7 sets ordered by SNCB. Part of the activities of the suppliers Bombardier- Alstom had to be shut down from 15 March 2020. Some of them were resumed in mid-May, but the production chain needs to be reorganised. A return to normal condition is expected by the end of August. Specifically, the delays will result in the train builder delivering 48 of the original 113 planned carriages this year and the delivery of the engine sets will start partly in December 2020 and partly in March 2021. For the 445 ordered M7 vehicles, therefore, some 50 will still be on the track in 2020 and the remaining vehicles will then gradually be rolled out over the next two years. As SNCB told you, and as you indicated yourself, the M4 vehicles will be taken out of service. Planning indeed depends on the inflow of the new double-deck equipment M7. The use of this equipment will release older equipment that can then be deployed elsewhere. According to current planning, the redeployment of the equipment deployment could take place in the period 2021-2022.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u49	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We will see whether colleagues are satisfied and convinced, or if they are disappointed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u50	Mr President, your appeal has not achieved the full desired result.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u51	It was just a question of mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u52	Minister, we can only be disappointed because we are getting the message that the replacement of equipment will take place in the period 2021-2022. We know the speed at which people sometimes work, so we have to aim at 2022, if there is no additional delay. It will therefore be 2022 in the best case. I also asked whether interim measures could be taken, including in the light of the commitment during the summer. It is actually said that the Kempen should draw its plan and that it should continue. So the answer is not just disappointing, it is even very disappointing. We must continue to plan what a colleague has called our railway museum. That's very disappointing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u53	Mr President, you predicted very well that we in the Kempen were very disappointed with this news. We Kempenaren also pay taxes, but we feel that the return to these taxes will not return to our Kempen in any way in terms of rail investment and rail equipment. That is no longer to be tolerated. On the occasion of a previous question, I have already referred to the unviable conditions we are experiencing with the renovated pig noses, and to the negative effects of not working with air conditioning, we have already warned you. I asked you for interim solutions. You didn't agree to that. Even today, you do not go into that and you simply say: Kempen, mud on with that rubbish of train equipment. I find this a very sad attitude, a minister unworthy. You are, of course, a minister in current affairs. So let us hope that this will soon end and that there will be a new minister who will pay attention to all the regions, especially a region such as Kempen, whose half a million inhabitants are entitled to better treatment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can say I'm disappointed, too. The influx of the M7 sets has already been delayed, and now the impact of the coronavirus is coming up again, at the expense of SNCB and especially the traveller, not just the Kempian traveller. For my region, I can tell you that the travellers are looking for more comfort, and that is very mildly put. I regret that in addition to the delay (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u55	Mrs Verhaert, we have a problem with the sound. It wasn't that obvious, but okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u56	Minister, wind turbines are an indispensable lever of our energy transition. Very often, however, residents complain about the lighting they display, as it is a relative source of visual pollution. Although these lights are essential to ensure the safety of aircraft pilots, they can nevertheless be reduced in order to improve the acceptability of wind turbines among the population. The Defence has just adopted a measure to that effect. For example, the Belgian Air Force agreed to use an automated remote pilotage system to control light beacons. With this technology, wind turbine beacons less than 150 metres will only be lit when the Air Force completes its training flights. In total, visual pollution can be reduced by two thirds. However, for the time being, this system can only be installed on wind turbines less than 150 metres high. Military aviation has done its part, but what about civil aviation? Have you started a reflection with the aim of equipping the wind turbines more than 150 meters from a similar device?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u57	My colleague, the airspace zones where a lighting system - remote pilotage - is applied are areas reserved for military aircraft only. Random occupancy and the various training exercises that take place may justify the installation of this type of pilotable lighting system. Putting this mark off when the military zone is not used does not in any way create an additional risk. It should be noted that this type of light mark-up cannot be used in civil airspace areas, as it is always open, active and usable. The requirements for the different types of lighting marking of obstacles for civil aviation are laid down by the ICAO international standards which Belgium is required to comply with. Wind turbines are of course included specifically in these obstacles. DGTA is closely following developments in this area. Here, as in other areas, aviation safety is the priority and will never be called into question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u58	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I am obviously a little disappointed at the impossibility of moving forward. But is there a means or action that the government can use, while not questioning that security, which I understand very well? We need to prepare for the future and equip these wind turbines with automatic ignition and extinguishing devices for lamps and signalling.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u59	I have pointed out that ICAO prohibits the extinguishing of lamps on wind turbines. It is a light that must be permanent and Belgium does not have the autonomy of action in these matters to regulate things on its own. These are international rules.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u60	Thank you, minister, for that clarification. Mr Vicar, I'm coming back to you. In principle you are entitled to the last word. Would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u61	It's sad, but at least it's clear. I did not want to ask the question, because for me wind development is indispensable for our future energy transition. Happy holidays, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u62	I don't know when there'll be any. The news is pretty glamorous and we have to be on the bridge. Fortunately, there are new technologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just been informed that the plenary meeting was suspended and that a vote would take place after the suspension. As we can vote at a distance, I propose that we continue our work. We shall suspend them, in due course, for a few minutes in order to allow everyone to vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u64	Mr Minister, the insufficient supply of trains and the lack of cars on the Quévy-Quievrain-Mons lines to Brussels take place at the heart of the criticisms expressed by many commuters piled up in their trains. I would also point out that I am one of them. The latter question the conditions in which they travel, thus deploring the failure to respect the rules of social distancing and the danger to their health. The supply of trains and the number of cars are so low in peak hours that the result is that passengers are piled up against each other and the risk of contracting VOCID-19 is high, despite the need to wear a mask. As you will understand, Minister, this situation is unacceptable from a health point of view. The termination of confinement and return to work must be accompanied by all necessary precautionary measures on the part of SNCB. However, the testimonies from the docks indicate the opposite. Mr Minister, given the return of a large number of people to work, does SNCB intend to reconsider the offer of P trains at peak times on the Quévy-Mons-Bruxelles and Quiévrain-Mons-Bruxelles lines? In view of the health risks, could the number of cars within these lines be revised upwards as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u65	Mr Thiébaut, as Mrs Dutordoir explained to us in her presentation in committee on 8 July, the SNCB has made every effort to respond to the government's demands in this time of crisis. Thus, at the height of the pandemic, 53 per cent of trains were still travelling, guaranteeing 75 per cent of seats, throughout the country. Since 4 May, at the request of the federal authorities, the SNCB has done more than maximum to be able to respond, in compliance with the health measures, to the definity. Due to the incentive for teleworking, SNCB has abolished the 91 P trains from and to Brussels, but is providing its other 3,573 daily trains, in order to guarantee maximum offer - both on the main routes and in the more rural areas. As early as September - despite the likely continuation of telework and, at least, an increase in telework compared to the pre-COVID-19 period - the SNCB will release 67 of the 91 P trains that had been abolished. These will not only allow customers to find two trains per hour where this was no longer the case, but also a sufficient number of seats for a safe trip. The wearing of the mask is mandatory both at the station and on board trains and what is most recommended where social distancing is not possible. Regarding the line you are quoting, I will send you a copy of a response from SNCB on the subject. You will find in particular the details of the strengthening of the offer planned on the line from September.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u66	Minister, thank you for the good news for the month of September. I was worried because, taking the train to Brussels on a regular basis, I was able to see that some trains were crowded. Sometimes a train for which nine cars are planned is found at dock with only three cars, where everyone is engulfing. Of course, social distancing can no longer be respected under these conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u67	Mr President, we will send the annex by email to the secretariat of the committee, which will forward it to Mr Thiébaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u68	Minister, last week a video of an incident involving Securail agents showed up at the Leuven station. A cop pushed a woman. Another woman who filmed the event was addressed on her skin color and treated very intimidatingly. Of course we do not know all the circumstances and we can only judge what can be seen in the video. I'm very worried about the footage. In the station and on the train people must feel safe and there is no place for racism and intimidation. Securail must make travellers feel safe, not the other way around. That's why I'd like to hear more from you about the incident. What was the reason for the Securail agents' intervention? Why did the situation escalate? Was there a complaint filed by the women in the video? How will SNCB ensure that there is no place for racism and macho behavior in the Securail Corps?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u69	SNCB lets me know that she holds the value of respect for everyone in high regard. An internal investigation into the context of the incident has been initiated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u70	Mr. Minister, I'm sorry, I have to interrupt. The vote has just been opened. We only have four colleagues on video conferencing. I guess no one wants to miss the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a brief suspension so that you can vote. Minister, excuse me for this interruption. In principle, there is no committee during the plenary. Today's situation is exceptional.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u71	Colleagues, we can resume our work. Both votes are over. Mrs Buyst, Minister, again I apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u72	Mr President, I will read the answer again. SNCB lets me know that it has great respect for everyone. An internal investigation into the context of the said incident has been initiated. Pending the results of that study, SNCB guarantees me that any necessary measures will of course be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u73	Minister, I understand that it is still difficult to comment at this time as an internal investigation has just begun. I am pleased to hear that respect for everyone is held in high esteem. I know that it is not always obvious for agents of Securail to deal with certain situations. Nevertheless, I would like to refer to a wonderful example that I saw in the reportage. On the train between Eupen and Ostend an agent of Securail always tried with a very human approach to remind people of their duties. I hope this can be an example for many other Securail agents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u74	Mrs Buyst, again I apologize for the interruption. You certainly agree with me that these two votes were important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u75	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u76	Questions Nos 55007914C, 55007915C and 55007916C by Mrs Rohonyi are postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u77	Minister, the federal government has released EUR 60 million to mitigate the impact of the corona virus on the air traffic controllers of skeyes. This ensures the operation again. Without the money, the operation of skeyes could be compromised in the next month. However, during the previous hearings with the Guild of air traffic controllers and the social partners in the Mobility Committee, we had to note that there is a permanent social conflict at skeyes. They ask for a recount of the members of the representative trade unions in order to determine the number of seats on the joint committee of skeyes. That has not happened for a very long time and makes it very difficult to reach a social agreement because the agreements made are not made for the whole group. In order to avoid social conflicts, it is important that agreements are supported by a large proportion of staff. In addition, they ask for an audit to reveal the pain points and thus work towards a better future for the company. We, too, are interested in this matter. We are not in favour of minimum services, but we are in favour of good social dialogue. Minister, on the basis of what calculations did the federal government come up with the amount of EUR 60 million of support? Does skeyes suffer from defaults by airlines or other customers? If so, which amounts and what amounts are involved? When did the latest count date among the union members of skeyes? Will you, as the competent minister, order a recount at skeyes so that the consultation can take place as it should? Will you respond to the demand of the social partners and the Guild of air traffic controllers to conduct an external audit at skeyes, or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u78	Mrs Vindevoghel, skeyes is mainly financed by the charges paid by the airlines. The decline in air traffic since the beginning of the sanitary crisis has led to a drastic reduction in the revenues of this public undertaking. The additional liquidity needs for the year 2020 are estimated at EUR 100 million. Through Eurocontrol, a loan of almost EUR 40 million was granted to skeyes. In order to ensure the operational and financial continuity of the public sector, the government has made available a budget of EUR 60 million, of which EUR 15 million in the form of advances, EUR 25 million in the form of grants and EUR 20 million in the form of loans. The last count goes back to the transformation of the Regie der Airwegen in the autonomous State-owned Belgocontrol and thus the establishment of the Joint Committee of Belgocontrol. Skeyes argues that the air traffic control sector has undergone many changes in recent years through the introduction of the Single European Sky, the growth of European air traffic before the outbreak of the current crisis and the increasing digitisation of working tools. This requires modernisation of the company, but also a reform of working methods. Several major reforms have been carried out in recent years, such as the reform of the end of the air traffic controllers' career following the pension reform, the revision of the staff planning system, the introduction of standby arrangements to ensure continuity of operations, etc. These difficult reforms have been achieved through agreements within the company's social dialogue body. The results at the level of security and finance in the last year are very positive. Skeyes is again one of Europe's leading air navigation service providers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u79	Minister, during the hearing we noticed very strongly that the social dialogue was very difficult there. Almost all Members of this House have noticed this. I am very sorry that you are not taking any steps to ensure that social dialogue is more robust there. There was a demand from trade union organisations to organise a census, so that consultations within the company could be resumed in a balanced way. We are not in favour of minimum services at all, but we think it is much more important to ensure good social dialogue in the company. I am very sorry that you did not respond to the demands of both trade unions and traffic controllers to carry out that census effectively and to do a survey................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That was a very clear question at the hearing. We must do everything we can to ensure that there is consultation and the workers are heard, and that no unilateral agreements are concluded. Otherwise, we're gonna get into trouble in the company again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u80	Minister, the successive delays and delays in the construction of the Mons station will have an impact on the overall cost of its construction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u81	Compared to the initial budget, could you tell me how much is the difference between the initial budget and the estimated final amount?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u82	What is the current status of the project? What phase of work are we in? What markets remain to be achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u83	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, with regard to the construction of the Liège railway station, the work cost EUR 610 million, of which EUR 400 million was borne by SNCB and the balance paid by Infrabel. The annual cleaning costs for this station are around €850,000. As far as the Mons station is concerned, the coronavirus did not have an impact on the overall planning of the construction site. Indeed, the procedure for awarding the new contract for the construction of the frame and awnings which SNCB was to reaward following the termination of the CIT Blaton and Emesa contracts at the end of 2019 was not disrupted. As expected by SNCB, the new market was notified on 18 May to the Portuguese company Martifer, with the resumption of work on 2 July 2020. The work is therefore still scheduled to be completed in June 2023, even though the dismantling of the temporary reception infrastructure and the construction site facilities will continue in the second half of 2023. Currently the work is focused on two elements. The major work and concrete will be completed in December 2020 with the exception of certain works which can only be completed after the completion of the metal structure of the station. The second part concerns the wiring and equipment of the technical spaces in the parking lot. The work ahead is the completion of the metal structures for the station and the awnings. The structure of the quay shelters is planned between October 2020 and August 2021 and most of the structure of the station will be completed in April 2021 with one-off work until 2022. Work on the station envelope is scheduled for July 2020 to April 2021 and the cover of the dock shelters from April 2021 to September 2022. The second work and completions are planned between March 2021 and March 2023. The lifting equipment will be installed between March 2021 and April 2022. The technical equipment is already in progress and will end in June 2023 as it concerns, among other things, electricity, HVAC techniques and fire detection. North parking is scheduled to start in the second half of 2021 and the development of the surroundings is scheduled from February 2021 to March 2023. The majority of the work of the Mons station at the charge of Infrabel has already been carried out: "Aviation" beam, CLI entrance, tracks and track shelters, docks, L118 rectification as well as some catenary works. However, given the general phase of the work, the delay at the Mons station site had an impact on some work still to be carried out by Infrabel: the high voltage station, the general low voltage table, fiber optics and ICT, the advertisers on the docks, the renewal and hanging of the contact wires of the catenaries at the awnings and the adjustment of the tracks. Additional costs for Infrabel are so far proportionately low. To date, there is also no complaint against Infrabel. The initial amount of the Mons railway station project was 170 million. At present, it amounts to 324 million according to the following distribution key: 200 million from SNCB; 80 million from Infrabel; 32 million from OTW (the financing of the Walloon share); 12 million from the city of Mons, part of which is financed by ERDF funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u84	Minister, these are reassuring announcements even if every time I'm on the train, I'm passing by and I'm looking at the structure, I don't see any workers dealing with it. It's been going on for months. With or without a coronavirus attack, I understand that it doesn't change much. So you're more reassuring. On the other hand, I also asked you a whole series of questions about the contracts that had been awarded. I understand that you did not give me the answers in committee, but I would still like to receive them in writing, if you will. That was part of the body of my question, and I wanted to know more about the procurement history in that case. Minister, as you understand it, I intend to dive into this issue at Mons Station during my vacation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u85	Minister, I would like to know the annual numbers of visitors to the stations in Mons and Liège. Would it also be possible to obtain a comparison of these figures?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u86	The last count was made in October 2019, in accordance with the system you know. For the Mons station, the last count shows 55,437 passengers per week, broken down as follows: 9,820 per weekday, 3,839 on Saturdays and 2,498 on Sundays. These are the "mountain" travellers. For the Liège-Guillemins station, the last count made in 2019 is almost double. We have recorded 113,995 travellers, namely 17,931 on weekdays, 12,964 on Saturdays and 11,376 on Sundays. You will see a clear difference between the Liège station and the Mons station in terms of the proportions of passengers' distribution between weekends and weekdays. This difference is probably due to the attendance of students and users who are going to shop.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u87	Thank you for that clarification, Minister. I do notice a certain consistency in the sense that the Liège train station welcomes twice as many passengers as the Mons train station because its budget is twice as high as that of the Mons train station.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u88	Mr President, Minister, SNCB was severely affected by the corona crisis. Passenger numbers fell significantly, although SNCB continued to guarantee the service in the form of the 'train service of national interest'. The corona crisis will have an impact of 348 million euros. Instead of an operating profit of EUR 108 million, as foreseen for the crisis, an operational loss of EUR 290 million is expected to be recorded this year. SNCB is asking for clarity quickly. Infrabel also estimates the loss resulting from the corona crisis at EUR 47.7 million for 2020. Insofar as train traffic is not subject to new standards because of the government and there is no second corona wave. Lineas has also been under pressure for a long time. Because of the corona crisis, the results were even more under strain. Due to the fact that the company is partly financed by debt and also has a lot of fixed costs, it came into close financial trouble, even though the acute need for money is under control. The Belgian Railways delayed payment and/or extended the durations of the lease payments due. But Lineas, which has 2,100 employees, is looking for a more structural solution to his financial problems. For that, it looks at the government. That's why I have a few questions. Will the government compensate for the losses of these railway companies? If so, in what way and at what amount? Are these talks ongoing and how are these talks progressing? What is the financing of the rail pass in this respect for SNCB? The goods sector is thinking of a general reduction in the lane fee, as we heard yesterday in the hearing. How do you feel about this? Could you also comment on the state of play of the negotiations between Infrabel and the private investor Northern Diabolo NV, which estimates its loss at EUR 15 million, because the contractual minimum level of use is not reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u89	Discussions on compensation for SNCB and Infrabel are still ongoing. The demand should be examined in relation to the losses identified during the crisis and the expected losses for the rest of the year. The compensation for SNCB amounts to EUR 100 million for the direct costs of the 12-way pass. This pass is usable from 17 August 2020 to February 2021, with a maximum of two trips per month. An amount of EUR 10 million will also be available for operational costs and for free transport of bicycles between 1 July and 31 December 2020. The compensation for the 12-way pass covers the actual cost of the services provided by SNCB. This is therefore not comparable to direct aid to ensure the continuity of the company's activity, the financial situation of which has deteriorated as a result of the crisis. With regard to rail freight compensation, the sector estimates losses related to the COOVID-19 crisis at EUR 85 million, with a 30% reduction in volume compared to last year. We are in favour of the implementation in Belgium of a cost recovery of the infrastructure charge for railway undertakings, provided that this is done within a European framework. The European Commission has put forward a proposal for a regulation. The purpose of the Regulation is to allow infrastructure managers to temporarily reduce, exempt or postpone the charging for the use of railway infrastructure for the period from 1 March to 31 December 2020. The application of these measures in Belgium can be expected once the Commission proposal has been adopted. Finally, Infrabel informed me that it relied on force majeure under the PPP contract as a result of the corona crisis. Infrabel and Northern Diabolo look at the effects of this on each of them in mutual understanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u90	Thank you, Minister. SNCB and Infrabel worked as far as possible during the corona crisis at the request of the government, although this was mainly for SNCB with empty trains. The need for compensation for this service may not be abnormal, but the impact on rail transport will continue to be felt for a long time. Like any company, the railway companies will have to cope with their losses. In my view, to what extent we must compensate for this, we deserve an open debate in Parliament. In any case, it will be a very difficult balance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u91	I join Mrs Verhaert in wishing you a good holiday. Mr Minister, thank you for the time you have devoted to our committee to answer many questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-15-55-commissie-ic244x.u92	Mr President, we are at the heart of questions on mobility, which are of interest to Belgians on a daily basis. I wish everyone a good holiday. Be careful!
