ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u1	We will open the oral questions session. There are many issues on the agenda. I will therefore ask you to be extremely precise and quick. I also propose that you be able to postpone your speaking time, as we have been systematically doing for a few months, if your questions are referred to the written text. This allows you to save time for your replicas. Do not hesitate to refer to the written text of your questions. This will also allow us to make further progress in our work, since the minister must leave at 5 p.m. We begin with the debate on the degressiveness of unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u2	Minister, economic activity is difficult to recover especially in sectors still subject to restrictive measures such as culture or events. Of course, the main victims of this crisis are workers who have lost a job and are struggling to find one. The measures concerning bridge law and temporary unemployment have been extended until 31 December 2020 and this is a good thing. However, we do not understand that the measure concerning the suspension of the degression of unemployment benefits has not yet been extended. This poses a great deal of problems for workers, especially artists, who are at risk of their compensation being reduced. Madam Minister, will you therefore extend the measure to suspend the degression of unemployment benefits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u3	I do not see Mr Goblet, so his question 55005830C is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u4	Minister, my question relates to service titles, which I have already asked you about. In order to limit the social consequences of the crisis, the Walloon Region has adopted measures that enable service securities companies to maintain employment and wages without having to resort to temporary unemployment. Since 1 September last, temporary unemployment coronavirus is only available to sectors and employers who can prove that they are in a branch that is still particularly affected by restrictive measures or who have experienced at least 20% of days of temporary unemployment in the second quarter of 2020. Some companies have activated this measure put in place by Wallonia, in order not to penalize their workers. As a result, they cannot meet the 20% requirement, even though in practice they are victims of a 30% reduction in benefits. Minister, I come to both of my questions. First, will you list the service securities sector on the list of sectors still particularly affected by the restrictive measures? Secondly, will you at least assimilate to temporary unemployment the Walloon measure applied to these companies, so that they can access it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u5	Minister, together with the federal government, you decided to freeze the degressivity of unemployment benefits and even extend the length of the integration benefits. For us, it is essential that we can prolong it, since the situation is still not restored, far from it. That is why we are pleased that this topical debate is being held today. What steps are you going to take? On the ground, many people still suffer from the pandemic crisis, when they are not responsible for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u6	Minister,from September 1st, employers will only be able to access the corona scheme if they come from one of the most affected sectors, whose list has been published, or if they can demonstrate that they have had to compensate at least 20% of their hours of work by temporary unemployment in the second quarter. Based on an analysis by the HR service provider Acerta. About 42% of companies will still be able to claim temporary unemployment under these new rules. In the Walloon Region, this would represent 54.3% of enterprises, 41.7% in Brussels and 39.6% in Flanders. For the country as a whole, the average is 42%. According to the same study, it would be mainly horeca establishments, hairdressers, aestheticians, fitness centres or retail shops.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the questions on temporary unemployment and the extension of temporary unemployment, on the one hand, and on the degressivity, the halting of degressivity, the royal decisions and the extension or otherwise, on the other. Although the available figures do not yet show any major shocks in terms of employment and unemployment, we can assume that it has indeed become more difficult for jobseekers to find a job. The still high number of temporary unemployed also indicates that many companies are committed to retaining their workforce. The over-representation of the low-skilled among the temporary unemployed also suggests that this group may be even more difficult in the coming months. However, the practical support of jobseekers and the assessment of their difficulties fall within the competence of the regional services and the ministers responsible for these services. I believe that efforts to transition to jobs in need must be continued and that emphasis must also be placed on those who are often temporarily unemployed. The figures for temporary unemployment due to corona have shown that economic activity has gradually resumed. That is why, after consultation within the government, I decided not to extend the freeze of unemployment benefits and the neutralisation of the period of the benefits provided until 31 August 2020 in general. On 11 September, the CNT reached agreement on a further extension of temporary unemployment measures in response to the impact of the Corona crisis and on the cost of assimilation of days of temporary unemployment for annual holidays. The social partners made their proposal to me on 15 September and I will submit it to the government next Friday. The proposal covers the period up to 31 December 2020 and concerns the equivalence of temporary unemployment, force majeure for annual holidays and their financing, the freezing of the degressivity of full unemployment benefits, the neutralisation of the period of integration benefits and the neutralisation of the reference periods for artists, the issue of the extension of collective agreement No. 147 temporary unemployment due to economic reasons for employed persons and the problem of equal treatment in collective agreement No. 103 of the Corona Parental Leave in the calculation of the seniority conditions in order to be able to join the Time Credit. Specific rules apply to workers engaged in artistic or technical activities in the artistic sector so that they can retain their derogation from degression for a longer period or obtain it in a more flexible manner until 31 December 2020. Of course, there are sectors where the impact of the coronavirus is still very strong. I am thinking here of the travel sector, the artistic sector, the event sector and others. A separate arrangement was therefore made for these particularly hard hit sectors as from 1 September. These companies and sectors can continue to use the simplified procedure for temporary unemployment due to force majeure. They can do so until 31 December. These are sectors that are still affected by measures taken by the Minister of the Interior, for example because certain activities may not yet be carried out or cannot yet start, and employers who have a number of days of temporary unemployment during the second quarter of 2020 for economic reasons or for reasons of force majeure due to corona of at least 20% of the total number of days indicated to the RSZ. This 20% is an agreement made after consultation with the social partners. Leave days are not treated as days of temporary unemployment when calculating the 20 % of days of temporary unemployment required in the second quarter of 2020 to be recognized as a severely affected enterprise. Only days of temporary unemployment due to force majeure for corona or lack of work for economic reasons for workers and employees declared to the ONSS are taken into account. Those enterprises which are not considered hard hit may benefit from temporary unemployment 2.0. This is a more extensive and more flexible access to temporary unemployment for economic reasons for workers and servants in relation to what existed before the corona crisis. This also applies to the service securities sector and cement processing companies that are not listed as severely affected sectors. Workers in the service securities sector in Wallonia may, where appropriate, resort to temporary unemployment 2.0. Mr Vanden Burre, the HR Acerta study to which you refer does not correspond to the figures I have at my disposal. Of the 141,047 workers who made a declaration of temporary unemployment due to force majeure due to coronavirus for the reference period from April to June 2020, there are 104,484 workers whose number of days declared as temporary unemployment accounts for at least 20% of the total number of days reported to the ONSS. For information, in August 2020, a total of 55,020 employers, including employers with less than 20% days of temporary unemployment (declarations submitted until 14 September 2020), put workers in temporary unemployment due to force majeure. The four-month extension also implies the continuation of the 70% allowance for all temporary unemployed and also implies the continued granting of the 5.63 euro supplement for temporary unemployed with force majeure due to corona. The estimated additional costs for the extension of the TW-corona on a selective basis are € 164,129,456 for September 2020, € 157,367,044 for October 2020, € 128 million for November 2020 and € 120,728,000 for December 2020. It is not clear from a practical point of view that sectors which are particularly affected by the corona crisis are clearly defined. The event sector, for example, includes a wide range of activities which cannot always be reduced to, for example, certain joint committees. Moreover, even if the employer does not belong to a particular sector, a company may be exceptionally hard hit. This is why the flexible scheme has also been made more accessible on the basis of another general and objective criterion, namely for companies which, for economic reasons or for reasons of force majeure, have at least 20 % days of temporary unemployment in the second quarter of 2020 compared to the total number of days reported to the ONSS. In order to verify whether companies have claimed temporary unemployment for an average of 20% of the normal number of days worked between 1 April and 30 June 2020, the RVA has the data that will soon be made available through the DmfA database of the RSZ in the form of a specific code COOVID-TW. The RVA will continue to carry out further checks on possible crimes in relation to the COVID-TW, including for companies covered by the transitional measures. In the coming months, it will be necessary to decide whether the temporary unemployment emergency scheme should be definitively abolished as from 1 January 2021, taking into account all new health measures to combat coronavirus. I will also contact Mrs Strachte, Secretary of State for the Brussels Capital Government, to find out exactly what her request to coordinate the measures is. As far as I can tell, I have not yet received a letter on the matter, but I will certainly contact her. For the specific situation of jobseekers labelled as MMPP, jobseekers with serious medical, mental, mental or psychiatric problems, whose integration allowance is replaced by a protection benefit, the deadline for labelling by the mediation service was postponed from 1 April to 1 October 2020. To date, for 6.241 persons with an MMPP problem, the right to an integration allowance has been extended until September 2020. I did not get any signals from the regions that this period would not be sufficient to label the jobseekers concerned. So I have not taken any initiative to postpone this period again. Madam President, I hope that I have been able to give the necessary answers to most of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u8	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I hope that the proposal will be adopted by the Council of Ministers on Friday and that the extensions proposed by the social partners in the area of degressivity will be approved. The extension of temporary unemployment was already there. I also hope that the decision will be taken on the inclusion of the equivalence of annual holidays and on the freezing of the admission allowance and the reference periods for artists. There are two systems of temporary unemployment, which in itself is good. Some sectors are re-entering, while others are still being hit very hard. However, it remains difficult, especially for vulnerable unemployed people, to find a new job now under the current circumstances, as the number of new infections rises again. Moreover, I hope that by providing the measures and further support, the sectors concerned will survive and that the workers will be entitled to benefit so that they are not forced into the food banks, which are themselves in trouble. I also hope that the support that is now being given can be an incentive for joint committees or employers to reflect on the payment of the end-of-year premiums. After all, many workers are currently struggling to bridge the crisis. If they could have a proper year-end, that would be a nice boost on top of the scheme around the annual holiday.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u9	Minister, I understand that you are going to propose the suspension of the degressiveness of unemployment benefits and I hope that you will be followed in this initiative by the government. This is an essential measure for all those who have lost their jobs and are struggling to find one. We therefore count on you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u10	In these very difficult times, the Group of Ten has reached a very important agreement which also shows that social dialogue in Belgium is not only important but also works. You will refer to the government the freezing of the degressivity of unemployment benefits and the freezing and neutralization of the integration allowance, the period and period of reference for artists. If this is presented to the Council of Ministers on Friday and you get the agreement, what is the timing? We're already in the second half of September. The end of the month comes in sight. Is this gonna be made? Do you have a good view of that? I very much hope that the government will also follow the advice of the Group of Ten. That would be very sensible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u11	It is true that the times are uncertain. Despite all the measures taken, certain sectors do not yet see the light at the end of the tunnel. The retail trade, by announcing a possible second wave, no longer receives customers on the floor, the catering industry is struggling to survive, not to mention the travel and events sector. As a result, there has been a wave of redundancies in these sectors. Nor can we rule out dismissals. Thus, in the current circumstances, finding a job is not evident, especially for the long-term unemployed. A further extension of the freeze on the degressivity of unemployment benefits would be a good thing. This offers a little more financial breathing space for those affected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u12	My first question dealt with temporary unemployment and my second question about whether or not to extend the suspension of the degressivity of unemployment benefits. There is, however, something to say for the extension of temporary unemployment after August for a number of economic operators. I agree with that, but I would warn against possible misuse and abuse. There are sectors today that are begging for labour, where there are bottlenecks and where at the same time there is full use of temporary unemployment. That should ring a bell. I don't have the impression that that bell has already ringed where it should ring. I'm worried about that anyway. How will you ensure that the scheme is not abused? You didn't answer that. How long will the exception last? Will that be longer than the end of this year? You have not provided any perspective in this respect either. I understand there's another government in the making, but still. These measures are now being taken beyond the probable round of formation. Then there is no harm in looking further than at the end of December 2020 when it comes to such measures. It is important that all those involved also know what and where. So I am not very enthusiastic about the way this is handled. As regards the suspension of the degressivity of unemployment, it was initially said in March and April 2020 that it is impossible for the unemployed and jobseekers to find a new job. That's right. There was a general lockdown. That situation has changed by now. There are bottlenecks in certain sectors today. That is why it is important that we now speed up the process of strengthening the mechanism for re-training these bottleneck professions rather than adopting a proposal from the social partners to extend it until the end of this year. I fundamentally disagree with that. Today, after all, the situation on the labour market is no longer comparable to that of March and April 2020. We also know that it is not the smell of roses and moonshine in the labour market. The situation is still not as it was before the corona crisis. It's gonna take some time. But the signal must be given that it must be retrained to another profession. It is no longer reasonable to assume that one should always be able to enter the same profession or that the alternative is unemployment benefit. That is why we fundamentally disagree with the continuation of the suspension of the degressivity of unemployment. That's not a good idea, as far as we're concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would like to reply with two elements. Firstly, with regard to the agreement between the social partners and the Group of 10, the Green Group is in favour of extending the freeze on the degression of unemployment benefits and the neutralisation of the period of integration allowances. As far as this is concerned, and contrary to what my colleague Mr Anseeuw has just said, we can see that there is still a very great difficulty for a number of people in the labour market today. Yes, some sectors are able to redeploy and restart. Good! But a lot of sectors are still at a standstill. You mentioned the event, the travel sector. We could mention the world of the night, the horeca, the local trade. Living in the city, I realize how complicated it is in cities and urban centres. Let us not punish for a second time those who will have to look for a job in the coming weeks and months! We know it's hard. This does not prevent people from being able to change their jobs and find something else, to recover in another career, but they should not be punished. It's not our philosophy at all. You're saying you're going to propose this Friday to the government. I wonder how it's going to happen next. In the current state of affairs, can the government make royal orders, knowing that we are still in a special post-power format and therefore without special powers? Should we come back here to the parliamentary committee? Should we wait for a new full-function government? It is hoped that he will be there as soon as possible, but we know that it can still take a few days. What exactly is the procedure for implementing this decision, which we fully support? We are ready to come back here to the committee to vote if necessary, but I wanted to make that clear. The second element on which I wanted to react concerns your reference to the letter you received from Barbara Trachte, an environmental colleague and Secretary of State for the economic transition in Brussels. She wrote to you on August 26 to request an interdepartmental conference.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u14	The Minister has just pointed out that Mrs Trachte has made a request for economic matters and not for work and employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u15	That's very fair. What Mrs Trachte wants is an interdepartmental conference of ministers of the economy to talk about redeployment and recovery. I think it is fundamental that the policies of the different levels of power, federal and regional, be aligned and that we also think about the transition of our economy. In any case, for environmentalists, it is a fundamental element. If there had been a misunderstanding, it would be better if it were resolved and this inter-ministerial conference took place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u16	I know. We are organizing a meeting in the coming days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u17	Minister, thank you for the answers in general, but my question was specifically about service titles. This does not answer specifically since, as you know, service vouchers must prove the 20% of days of unemployment, but they will not be able to do so since they have activated the mechanism set up by the Walloon Region, precisely so as not to penalize workers. We know that today it is a sector that is fragile, which has not yet fully taken over. 30% less activity, should it be noted? I find that these people, today, who do not always have full schedules and have a lower salary, are again penalized. Would it not be possible to correct this measure and this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u18	Madam Minister, if I understand your answer correctly, you are in favour of prolonging this degression. We can only rejoice in that. We hope you will be followed by the rest of your group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u19	I should like briefly to mention a few elements. The package presented to the Council of Ministers on Friday includes a budget cost, particularly in view of the extension of the freeze on degressivity and the eligibility allowance, and at the same time the equivalence of the holiday allowance for the days in temporary unemployment. There is always a budgetary impact on this. It is also calculated and will be submitted to the government. There's a collective agreement No. 103, but also the extension of the 5.63 euros is done by collective agreement. These collective agreements can be made and must then be declared binding. In addition, there is the aspect of degressivity and integration allowance. This can be done with a normal royal decision by the Minister of Work. The equivalence for the holiday money is still technically considered. The social partners also look at the instrument chosen. We assume that this will have to be done with a legislative basis if an agreement is to be reached. This will probably be about social contributions. That will also be clear by Friday. If there was an agreement, we can move on to a KB. That could get there pretty soon. Then we can also give the RVA the necessary instructions on degressivity to ensure that it can continue. For the rest, of course, there will also be a legislative basis and there will have to be discussions with the other parties in the context of negotiations that are on the table today in order to find the necessary support for it. As you know, we do not have a majority within the government today to do so. However, let us first see what happens next Friday. Mr Anseuw, this is not the first time you have expressed your concern about this. It is also my concern for a great deal. We haven't been idle about this either. You are right to say that there is an incredible challenge in terms of activation and, above all, reorientation. You talk about a lot of sectors. I've met a lot of sectors in the last few weeks. The only sector I've heard of this is the construction sector. He's asking very clearly for extra hands. The healthcare sector is also asking a lot of people today. That reorientation will be extremely important there. We have also sat around the table with Flanders over the last few weeks. You know that every 20th of the month the RVA transmits all the data on the unemployed, but also on people who are temporarily unemployed. This is how the figures can be used. These people can be responsive, summoned, offered training. One can also see the number of days of unemployment of these people. This is a way of addressing these people, when one can see that they have been temporarily unemployed for a long time for a structural period and provide training for these people. So we're going to pass on that data. Until today, I have only received questions about this from Flanders. We have therefore given our full cooperation and provided that information. I do not know to what extent that same approach lives with regard to activation and reorientation in other parts of the country. But when the question comes, we are fully available to provide the necessary data, so that the efforts that we believe are needed can be made there. Mrs Thémont, with regard to service cheques, you are asking to be able to keep these people in temporary unemployment because of corona. At some point they have received full-time pay, which means that they do not reach the required 20%. They are now covered by temporary unemployment 2.0. As you may not yet see, because the agreement is only just there, the social partners have also said this week in one of the four points in their agreement that they are extending the EUR 5.63 supplement until the end of this year. This actually means that for them there is no specific difference between temporary unemployment due to corona and temporary unemployment 2.0. The agreement reached this week with the social partners, and the fact that the €5.63 is guaranteed by employers until the end of this year, means that they will now receive the full benefit, as they would receive in the case of temporary unemployment due to corona, for temporary unemployment for economic reasons 2.0. That's good news for the specific situation of these people, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u20	Madam Secretary, you mentioned a sector: the construction sector. There are, indeed, bottleneck professions there. There is a demand for more hands, but temporary unemployment can still be used. I think this deserves a little more attention. There are other sectors in that case. For a good understanding, it is up to the regions to make an extra effort to retrain to new occupations. But here the context is created in which that happens. I am not concerned about the need to punish the unemployed or even to punish them twice, but I am concerned about the need to encourage the unemployed. For this reason, the degressivity of unemployment benefits is indeed relevant. We do have a responsibility here, at federal level. People should not be punished, but they should be in a context where they are encouraged to retrain. We all agree that it is difficult to get to work in certain sectors. That is precisely why other sectors need to be looked over the wall. Finally, you referred in your reply to the budgetary impact of the proposal, including the further suspension of the degressivity of unemployment benefits. Could you explain to me a little bit what this budgetary impact is?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u21	Within the framework of the agreement made, this is one of the calculations currently being carried out to determine what the cost would be. What is still happening in the coming period is, of course, still a question mark. In the context of the summer recess super-core meetings, we have made an exercise in this respect, with the extension of EUR 150 million for the remaining months. Work is now being done on the basis of more recent figures and also on the basis of more accurate estimates.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u22	I suppose that calculation will be completed this week, as you will present it to the Council of Ministers. If so, can you provide us with that calculation? This is a gap in today's response.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u23	Are you also interested in calculating the equivalence of holiday days? In that respect, the invoice is much higher. An agreement was made that is one and indivisible. If I have the data at my disposal, I would like to clarify the four elements, the whole of the agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u24	I'd love to. I thought carefully to open the door on one aspect and I'm glad you opened the door yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u25	Thank you, Madam Minister. We will be able to track all the information you provide to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u26	Minister, as you know, our assembly passed the law of 15 July 2020 improving the situation of workers in the cultural sector, who have now been in a precarious situation for more than six months. This law represents a real breath of oxygen for the sector because it offers social protection to its workers who were, so far, without anything. Unfortunately, after some attempts to block Parliament, we are now seeing new - quite unacceptable - administratively preventing the implementation of these emergency measures. Like me, you have received many testimonies through the cultural federations, which I thank for their work and their vigilance. In addition to overburdening payment funds, certain practices - contrary to the spirit of our law - are totally unacceptable and make discriminatory, contradictory or random situations. In some cases, the social and economic situation of workers is aggravated, so that some people are reluctant to exercise their rights. For example, when a request is made for temporary unemployment or emergency measures, the artist's benefits or integration allowances are suspended. That is obviously not the point. I ask that the logic of urgency be respected, namely the maintenance of allowances and the adjustment in a second stage. Similarly, some people were denied access to the emergency measure on the grounds that they were not dependent on the proper joint committee, while performing artistic activities in the theatre of La Monnaie or at the National Theatre. Minister, I ask you to put an end to these practices so that the measures taken by this House are properly implemented. What initiatives have you taken or are you going to take to enforce the spirit of the law and put an end to blockages? Will you register as an emergency by instructing the administration not to block the allowances pending any regularization? Beyond the question of these blockages that should not have existed, I will ask you for special support for the cultural sector. I imagine you have received this letter from actors in the cultural sector, which shows us that helping the latter by compensating for his loss of ticketing saves all jobs and ultimately costs the public authorities less than the loss of contributions and the increase in unemployment. Indeed, a famous theatre points out that, due to restrictive measures and the loss of tickets, the unemployment of its staff would cost the State, in the coming season, the sum of some EUR 1.5 million, to be divided between unemployment and loss of contributions, i.e. EUR 148 000 per month. Compensating their losses of one million would thus save jobs and save EUR 489,000. According to them, investing 4.5 million euros would allow all the theatres of the Wallonia-Brussels federation to achieve their planned season without having to put anyone out of work and, in addition, generate an economy for the State of about 3.4 million euros per year or 450 000 euros per month. It's still to be analyzed. What is your position on this issue? For your part, have you done your calculations? Do you achieve these same results? Have you contacted the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the Flemish Community to find a solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u27	Minister, on July 8, the federal Parliament adopted urgent measures in favour of artists and technicians following a bill tabled at the end of April, in memory. It was a bill that took a long time. The debates have been numerous, as have the manoeuvres, if I may describe them as such, to delay the matter. This was finally achieved on 8 July. What do we see now? After the vote on this bill, it takes almost as much time for it to be properly implemented. We really have questions about whether or not the government will defend this sector properly. We therefore come back with questions because we had already sent written questions on 15 July to Minister De Block on this subject and we have still not received an answer. As of 31 July and 31 August, how many technicians and artists have benefited from temporary unemployment through the adoption of the law of 8 July? How much do you estimate the number of people who are entitled to this scheme but who still do not benefit from it at the present time and for what reasons? Have the same artists and technicians received all the benefits to which they are entitled as a result of the retroactive effect of the Act? Finally, what steps have been taken by your Government to ensure that all the workers concerned receive all the aid in a timely manner? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u28	Madam Minister, as a rule, artists must be able to demonstrate at least 312 working days for a period of 21 months in order to qualify for unemployment benefit. Under the law of 15 July, artists can now exceptionally claim unemployment benefit between 1 April 2020 and 1 January 2021 if they can prove ten paid activities or 20 working days between 13 March 2019 and 13 March 2020. As a result of this measure, a relatively large group of artists who previously did not receive unemployment benefit will suddenly join the unemployment benefit. There is a risk that they do not yet have sufficient knowledge of the rules governing the declaration of working days during this period of unemployment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u29	Mrs. Song apologized for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u30	Madam Chair, I have incorporated her questions into my answer. Ms.Dedonder, in recent months, I have received numerous letters and e-mails from the cultural sector. In your question, I find no specific reference to the letter to which you refer. So I don't know exactly what letter it is. Without reference to a specific ECB number, it is difficult for me to ascertain how many unemployment benefits employees in some theatres would have received or will receive. I am, of course, exclusively responsible for the regulation of unemployment benefits. These amounts cannot simply be used as a subsidy to enterprises in the cultural sector. As you know, this competence belongs to the regions. With regard to the other questions relating to the artistic and cultural sectors, I can say the following. With regard to the so-called blocking of the artists' file, the ONEM makes every effort to process as quickly as possible the complete files of applications for full or temporary unemployment benefits which it receives. In the context of temporary unemployment, ONEM received 1,680 applications, of which 1,378 were decided and 302 were referred to the payment agency because the file was not complete. In the context of full unemployment, under the conditions of admission relaxed and provided for by the Act of 15 July 2020, the ONEM has received and dealt positively with 39 applications for allowances to date. So no negative decision has been taken in these files. The submission per benefit institution is not available. The RVA has not yet been able to estimate the budgetary impact of this new measure. The measures paid out shall be in accordance with the control cards submitted and with the rules. The amount of these payments is not yet available either. I find it surprising that neither I nor my collaborators have received any individual questions about a payment blocking. If you have any information on this, I would like to receive the data from these individual files so that they can be verified by the ONEM. If there's an individual file, they'll get us. Secondly, both the RVA and the payout institutions carry out their information tasks closely. In order to inform the intended workers quickly and correctly, the unemployed will receive a document containing information at the time of their claim for benefits from their payout institution. This document was drawn up by the RVA under the Social Insurance Charter and contains their rights and obligations as fully unemployed. When applying for grants, artists must complete a C1 artist document in which they must provide more information on their artistic activity. At the same time, they are informed via the Annex of the various reporting obligations for the unemployed. They'll all be given a control card with instructions to fill them in. It also states, inter alia, that a paid activity must be mentioned on it. Finally, specific information sheets for workers in the artistic sector are also on the website of the RVA. Those information sheets also emphasise the obligation to make a declaration. As part of the measures taken for workers in the arts sector, and more specifically the law of 15 July, the ONEM has adapted its website. On the home page, reference is now made to the new law. In this general explanation, the ONEM recalls that in addition to the relaxed conditions for access to unemployment benefits, the usual rules apply. These rules concern, inter alia, the application for benefits and the obligations to which the unemployed are subject. Finally, I would remind you that in order to receive the monthly payment of unemployment benefit, the unemployed person must submit the check card to his payout institution at the end of the month. That payout institution must consult Dimona before carrying out the payout in order to avoid reimbursement of days on which the unemployed person has worked. The Auxiliary Cash for unemployment benefits also informs this target group in a clear and structural way. On its website there is a specific section for artists and technicians from the sectors concerned, where the recently updated information sheet of the RVA can be found very quickly. The procedure for submitting applications for allowances due to cancelled events is also described. The employees of the Auxiliaries were informed via the reception page of their intranet via an internal document of 14 August entitled "Artists and technicians in full unemployment - temporary measure COVID-19', which describes the new provisions. The deadline of 31 August 2020 was misunderstood for some collaborators since for many cases of complete unemployment, it is indeed possible to request an additional one month from the ONEM in order to preserve the rights of the persons concerned. The application for full unemployment benefit must be submitted to the unemployment office within two months. That period shall begin to run on the day following the first day on which the benefit is claimed. With respect to applications under eased eligibility, however, the OMB determined that the deadline would begin earlier than July 27, 2020. To qualify for unemployment benefits from 1 April 2020, for example, the claim must arrive at the ONEM by 26 September. Once the complete file has been submitted, the RVA will complete the file as soon as possible. There have been no directives issued in the administration that would lead to the blocking of allowances for some employees. As mentioned above, unemployment benefits are paid only after the submission of the check card of the month for which the benefit is claimed and the payment is made only after consultation of Dimona. In addition, a subsequent check is carried out by the RVA which compares the reimbursed days with the working days indicated in Dimona. Many detailed questions were asked in the written presentation of the questions. You have not repeated it here, but the questions have been asked. Hence the many details. The possibility for workers in the cultural sector to apply for temporary unemployment in the context of cancelled events has been extended until 31 December. The measures to extend the neutralisation benefit of the compensation periods for artists and technicians in the arts sector and the extension of the reference period to obtain and extend this benefit also remain in force until 31 December 2020. The bridge law, which is a competence of my colleague Mr Ducrame, normally runs in parallel with temporary unemployment measures. There is no provision for any measure to exceed the date of 31 December. This is not part of the government's commitment to the super-core. That is why we are sticking to it. This also applies to the demand to allow année blanche for the cultural and artistic sector in 2021. It is up to the next government to take action. The ONEM took the position that benefits which meet the conditions and which fall within the neutralised reference period may be taken into account in the extended reference period. This is also the case if they were used for the award or renewal of an advantage. This principle is reflected in the ONEM technical note for unemployment offices and payment agencies. A list of sectors which are considered to be particularly hard hit in full or in part and which can continue to benefit from temporary unemployment due to force majeure until 31 December will shortly be published in the Belgian Official Journal. The list also includes the joint committees for the audiovisual sector, the joint committee for the entertainment business and the joint committee for the socio-cultural sector. The principle of the right to temporary unemployment for workers who had to be recruited in the context of a cancelled event shall continue to apply irrespective of the status of the employer. Since the onset of the coronavirus crisis, on several occasions and intensively, consultations have taken place with representatives of the artistic and event sector. I understand that this will be discussed again tomorrow. The measures I have taken over the last few months will also be the subject of this consultation. Once again, I apologize for the very great technicality, but you have asked me to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u31	Madam Minister, first of all, I apologize because I was called to the Justice Committee, so I missed the beginning of your speech. Therefore, I will read the report carefully and come back to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u32	I just want to make it clear that we have not received any blocking files. If you have it, it is very important that we become aware of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u33	In this case, I'll send you a nice little file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u34	Madam Secretary, I haven't been able to follow very well the figures you gave me. There were 1,000 decisions and 300 files that were sent back to the payment institutions because they were not complete. You then referred to 39 applications and no decisions under the Law of 15 July 2020. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u35	No, those 39 applications are all positive decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u36	So what was the figure of 1,300? I apologize for my question, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u37	I'll read it to you again. In the context of temporary unemployment, the RVA received 1,680 applications, of which 1,378 applications were approved and 302 applications were returned to the payout organisms because the dossier was incomplete. In the context of full unemployment under the relaxed admission conditions of the Law of 15 July 2020, we have today received 39 applications for benefits. These were all given a positive decision. So we're still waiting for 302 files that were sent back because they were incomplete. I suspect a large part of that will come back. The complete files in both systems were given a positive decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u38	Thank you, Madam Secretary. It's very clear now. I'm a little freaked out about those 39 applications. I don't think that's much. How do you think that's going to happen? After all, demand was strong in the sector. I suspect that we cannot yet find the way to the new law that can be enforced. I am reassured after the testimony I heard about a visit to the Hulpkas at the beginning of August. Since then, information has been provided both internally and externally on the website, both to the employees and to people who want to assert their rights. That seems to me to be a good thing. It is good that the misunderstanding of that August 31 has been cleared up. However, I'm still a little hungry. That 39 seems to me to be very little. I do not know how you interpret that, whether you already have elements for interpretation. I'm still looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u39	Madam Secretary, thank you for the clarification. I had the same question about the numbers. That 39 surprises me, too. We have all received the same signals that a number of payout settings started blocking requests because of an interpretation problem. The RVA itself gave the correct interpretation, but it was not always followed by the payout settings. That's a message that's been widely distributed in that sector. Sometimes it's hard in that world to keep track of all the records and all the papers. A whole set of accounts must be set up for this. Those people used to lose heart sometimes. They file all kinds of papers and eventually they don't get benefits. Those actions have continued this summer. Some people still had no income back then. In this sense, I am pleased that the interpretation of the RVA has been amended, that there are so many positive answers to the temporary unemployment dossiers and that it is being extended until December. I hope the 302's files are gonna be okay soon. In some cases, they are people who have long run out of income, who have been busy for a long time and who have been systematically taken away with relaxation. Unfortunately, some still fall between the meshes of the net. A combination of all this means that the law of 15 July should have even more scope. This correct interpretation of the RVA must clearly see through to everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answers. Like my colleagues, I am concerned about these figures. It is worth analysing them in more detail. First, it should be asked why 302 people could not receive their dues on the grounds that their files would be incomplete. Indeed, it gives a large percentage of people who remain on the tile. Administrative problems should not complicate matters. I'm not saying it's done consciously, but in any case the numbers are revealing. In any case, we will not fail to let you know the individual cases in a situation of blockage, as you have proposed. More generally, I would point out that the sector continues to mobilize, because it regrets the insufficient measures taken, not only in terms of the right to compensation, but also with a view to obtaining better protection and greater coherence in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u41	Madam President, Mrs Moscufo, I would like to make this very clear once again. Today 302 files are incomplete. I think that the Court also believes that those files should be in order and that they should contain evidence. You refer to the administration and consider that the administrative process is too difficult. We, and certainly the Chamber, have adopted regulations, which we have already gone a long way with their questions, and we have also indicated that the parties concerned must be able to prove at least a number of things and prove contracts. There's got to be evidence. If it turns out that in those 300 dossiers these elements are not sufficiently present, which is mainly the case, then the right attitude and, hopefully, your attitude is to bring these dossiers to a successful conclusion. With the role and the task of the RVA to ensure that a file contains sufficient evidence and evidence to enable it to be finalised, the rules you have adopted here in Parliament on this matter stand or fall.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u42	Madam President, Madam Minister, you are absolutely right in your last speech. Furthermore, I would like to remind you that, before the law of 15 July 2020, a majority in this Chamber has chosen to violate one of the basic principles of our unemployment insurance, namely that it is necessary to contribute before it can be used. If there are any voices at the moment that these evidences would not be necessary to indicate that one can indeed be entitled to that regulation, which already violates one of those basic principles, then my clog breaks completely. Madam Secretary, you are absolutely right about your last intervention. It would still be wrong that files should not be complete. The figures speak for themselves. The precedent created by the law of 15 July 2020 has apparently provided for 39 applications from artists to date. That can count. I would also be shocked if I had passed that law, because I would first of all ask what we actually did on 15 July for only 39 applications, while all parties, except N-VA, were convinced beforehand that heaven would fall on our heads when it came to the artists, because thousands of artists would die of hunger and deprivation. Two months after date there are 39 applications, so that speaks volumes. I have a brief question concerning the monitoring of the implementation of this law. If I understand correctly, this control consists of testing the cards submitted by the artists with Dimona. Nothing else is done about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u43	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u44	Thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u45	Minister, would you like to provide further information?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u46	I think I may have given the reply before my turn.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u47	Minister, although the figures give us some indication, this point remains a complicated matter. When we held the debate on the sector, we wondered at what level we were going to set the stage. There was consensus, but not everyone agreed on the conditions. In this particular sector, it is sometimes difficult to prove that the signing of a contract is imminent, with some people getting their contract only on the first day of work. Even if some workers in the sector do not meet the conditions, they must be able to "fill their fridge", but this is another debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u48	Mrs Moscufo, yesterday I received several questions in Dutch and it was not possible to have a translation of the answers for today. I beg your pardon. The measure taken at the super core of 12 June concerns the tax measure designed to encourage the use of teleworking until at least the end of the year. The purpose of this measure is to exempt from taxation expenses for teleworking up to a maximum amount of EUR 1226.94 per month. For more details on this measure, I should refer to my colleague in the finance department. Article 9 of collective agreement No. 85 provides that the employer is responsible for the provision, installation and maintenance of the equipment necessary for telework. The employer shall reimburse or pay only the costs of connections and communications relating to telework. This last sentence should not, in my view, be understood as prohibiting the employer from paying, in addition to the connection and communication costs, fees for other costs relating to telework, such as heating costs. Employers and employees remain free in this respect to settle between themselves or not. My administration does not have specific figures on teleworking in enterprises and the fees agreed in this context. These agreements are made at company level or between employer and employee. In view of the fact that we may still have to live with the risk of corona contamination for a long time, and it is to be expected that telework will also play a major role in our work organisation in the longer term, clear rules on telework, as well as deconnection, are important. That is why, on 10 July 2020, I addressed an opinion to the National Labour Council to consider whether the existing regulatory framework on telework and deconnection still provides sufficient guidance for employers and employees in the field and to consider whether additional rules and initiatives need to be developed in this area. Finally, I can tell you that there is currently no provision for compensation for workers who are no longer able to use the company restaurant because of the lockdown. Employer and employees are free to make agreements on this matter between themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u49	Madam President, Minister, thank you, particularly for clarifying the collective agreement. This means that the tax exemption for these allowances is compatible with the collective agreement and that no problems can arise in this respect. After all, what you say is true. We will have to continue teleworking for a very long time. What I do notice and what also comes back in some of the following questions is the following. You sent a question for advice to the NAR in order to see whether the framework should not be changed. In any case, I am getting signals that some employers still have a lack of confidence in letting their employees work telework. However, the state of health should encourage teleworking. I understand, however, that it should not be the same as during the lockdown and that workers also need some contact in the workplace, with colleagues and the employer. It is therefore necessary to find a middle course to keep it healthy, but also socially and work-oriented. However, teleworking often still has to be enforced. There are also the costs of teleworking, but the tax exemption partly meets this requirement. With winter on the doorstep there will also be heating costs. It cannot be the intention of the employee to take full advantage of this. At the same time, there is also deconnectivity. Employees who work telework also kind of light each other up to keep replying to emails and staying online. One employee may give the wrong example to another employee, which means that no one dares to drop out. It is important to limit these matters as well. I hope that the National Labour Council will take up your request and frame it very well so that progress can be made in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers. You are referring to existing legislation. That is the "problem". This legislation is not sufficient. She's really to be seen again. Especially since, as my colleague said, with the pandemic, there are a lot of workers who find telework positive, others who find it less positive. But in any case, there is legislation to be adapted in relation to that. You are referring to the fact that you cannot intervene through a new law because it is an agreement between employers and workers. I hope I don't have to explain to you how complicated it is to have a negotiation when you are individually facing your boss. We're not facing his boyfriend around a little coffee shop to find an arrangement. It's often much more complicated than that. There is also the whole problem that with this telework, if it is for the entire period of the contract, one is completely isolated from his colleagues, which is also not good for mental health. There is also the whole question, as my colleague has said, of the right to disconnect. I think the social partners are really looking for a framework that goes much further. We will not fail to be vigilant in the coming weeks to see what position the new government is going to take.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u51	Madam President, I have just forgotten to say something. Last week, the social partners also signed an agreement on a relay, in which they made a number of recommendations. They have also made it very clear that they will continue to include time- and place-independent work and that it is also one of the priorities for them to make further agreements on this subject within the framework of social dialogue. In that sense, I think it is positive that they have repeated this in the context of the relay note that they put out last week. So the will is there to record this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u52	An employer who announces its intention to proceed with a collective dismissal is required, inter alia, to send a notification to the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation. Secondly, the draft collective redundancies decided upon at the end of the procedure for informing and consulting workers' representatives must be notified to the same SPF. On the basis of these data, the Employment FPS has been compiling statistics since 2011. They are published quarterly. The way in which these statistics are compiled makes it possible to monitor the evolution of collective redundancies year after year. These statistics can be found on the Employment FPS website. The data collected in the first eight months of 2020 allow us to identify some trends. For example, June 2020 saw an increase in the number of collective redundancies: 19 collective redundancies were announced. The months of July and August, which usually have fewer announcements of collective redundancies, saw 13 and 7 collective redundancies, respectively. The redundancies in July involved 711 workers and those in August 728 workers. The sectors most affected in the first eight months of the year are petrochemicals, transportation and horeca. For the latter sector, 531 job losses were announced in July and August. Attention, an advertisement does not mean that all jobs will actually be lost. We would also like to add that the extensive measures we have taken and continue to take in the context of temporary unemployment have given many businesses a means of redress that has allowed them not to have to carry out collective redundancies in the midst of crisis. This was a crucial factor in overcoming the crisis by also maintaining the purchasing power of the workers concerned as best as possible. Thus, we have been able to make a significant contribution to the avoidance of collective redundancies, hoping that this will also be the case in the future. Thus, temporary unemployment for cases of force majeure in the context of the coronavirus was prolonged until the end of the year, as I explained, for companies that can prove at least 20% unemployment for the second quarter. As of 1 September, more rapid access to economic unemployment was also foreseen. The inspection services of the Directorate-General for the Control of Social Laws of the SPF Economy intervene in the event of a complaint for non-compliance with the collective dismissal procedures provided for by the Renault law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u53	As you said, as many as 19 collective redundancies have already been recorded this year, representing a loss of 4,483 jobs. Of course, great efforts have been made, in particular by maintaining temporary unemployment and economic unemployment, but I believe that the crisis will continue to be felt and that we must expect many other redundancies, whether collective or individual. I therefore believe that we cannot stand by, despite the efforts already made. In my view, we are running towards disaster, both socially and economically.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u54	Ms. Thémont, the preparation of each plan begins with the evaluation of the last plan. This also applies to a plan to combat poverty. The third plan covered the period 2016-2019. The evaluation report, completed in July 2019, is waiting to allow a new government to draft a fourth plan. It is available on the Social Integration SPF website. The findings of the evaluation report and international and European political developments were the subject of a seminar organised by the SPF on 2 October 2019. Two methodological elements that seem crucial to me are, on the one hand, the need for measurable and results-oriented objectives – a need that is also apparent from the Court of Auditors' analysis – and, on the other hand, the importance of working with organisations on the ground and people in poverty themselves. These are two guidelines that have been integrated into the follow-up process on the basis of the seminar and taking into account the national reform programme. Four common recommendations were adopted: strong social protection, labour market policy, sustainable development and the fight against child poverty. In order to develop an action plan that integrates the four priorities, a participatory and results-based methodology has been developed by the SPF. It is important to stress that both the participation of people in poverty and their organizations and the involvement of experts in the experience have been based on this approach. Working groups have begun work to formulate objectives for each of the four priorities. The result of this work will enable a new government to make choices and finalize the new action plan. It is difficult to engage the new government. In addition, as explained in my answer to your written question 549 of 23 June 2020, we have taken a series of measures as part of a "vulnerable groups" task force to enable the most vulnerable groups to benefit from social protection. With regard to the problem of isolated people, I conclude by referring to the Miriam 3.0 project. Thanks to intensive support, this project aims to strengthen the emancipation (empowerment) of single-parent women in the CPAS of Anderlecht, La Louvière, Malines, Schaerbeek and Saint-Nicolas, to break their social isolation and reduce their poverty with particular attention for their socio-professional integration. Box managers offer collective, individual and intensive support.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u55	Minister, thank you for your full answers. I understand the measure that has already been put in place. I have been asking this question for some time (in July). If we can see the effect of this today, it is hardly better given that the new figures recently published say that one in five children live in a home with an income below 60% of the average. Belgium has a very high rate of child poverty. We know this and we see it: the crisis of the coronavirus does not make things right. The health crisis has deepened the social crisis. It is out of the question that social rights remain confined to use a current vocabulary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u56	Madam Secretary, on Tuesday 5 August, West meat processing company in Westrozebeke had to put 225 workers in preventive home quarantine because 67 employees were infected with corona in the cutting plant. The employees concerned took preventive action against temporary unemployment and the activities of the cutting department were temporarily taken over by the site in Aubel, where a staff member died earlier this year from the consequences of COOVID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u57	Your first question concerns a competence of the regional minister responsible for the Health and Health Agency, because this agency is responsible for the contact investigation. Without prejudging things, I believe it is obvious that at least some of the infections took place at work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u58	This is an outbreak in which 94 workers out of 817 tested positively. In addition to the generic guide Safe at work and the sector guide available on the website of the FOD WASO, SIOD, together with the various inspection services and the BFSA, in collaboration with the social partners, employers and trade unions of the meat sector, has drawn up a plan of action to keep the situation in the Belgian meat sector safe. In this context, checks are being stepped up, both preventively and repressively, not only in slaughterhouses but also during commuting and housing for the often foreign workers of slaughterhouses. This plan of action came after the outbreak in Germany. The inspection of Welfare at Work had already carried out two checks at the holding prior to the media coverage of the outbreak of Westmeat, establishing the non-respect of the rules. The holding has not contacted the inspection following the outbreak, but there is no obligation to do so either. When my services heard the information, they immediately opened an investigation of their own. In addition, an inspection campaign was launched for the meat sector in general. A total of 20 complaints files were prepared by the inspection service for 16 different undertakings in the meat sector. Following these complaints, a corrective opinion was drawn up 5 times and a written warning was issued 8 times. In addition, the Fair Competition Report is also a source of information in the fight against infringements of the corona measures, both in terms of well-being at work and temporary unemployment. To date, SIOD would have received a complaint about the meat sector through this hotline. In addition, the inspection carried out 69 checks during the months of July and August as part of the approach plan for the meat sector. In this crisis, cooperation between services is crucial. Therefore, my inspection services regularly consult with the BFSA to exchange, among other things, serious findings so that supervision and follow-up can be optimally guaranteed. Moreover, an evaluation meeting was held on 25 August on the plan of action in the meat sector. The BFSA was also closely involved. As you know, neither the FOD WASO nor the inspection services are a research institution, but of course they are well aware of the current developments in this area. With regard to the refrigerated areas where effective work is also carried out, these establishments are monitored with high priority. The risk of infection in meat processing is highly documented internationally. It is therefore somewhat obvious that more outbreaks are being detected here. However, no general conclusion can be drawn for the whole cold chain. The meat processing sector is more susceptible to infections due to a combination of factors. This has to do with work-intensive work, social distancing that is often difficult or impossible during the production process, cooling systems with air recirculation, working in a specific environment for food safety, cold temperature and high humidity, socio-economic factors such as foreign labour who often share a residence, noise which raises the risk of increased aerosol production, working areas such as inox where the virus survives longer. There may also be direct or indirect incentives to ensure that workers are absent from work as little as possible. As you know, the cooperation between the general practitioner and the occupational physician is already legally perfectly possible. In the context of the contact search, this is organised through the Agency for Health and Health. Prevention is the key word. With great regularity all staff testing is not a viable card and does not make much sense either. On the other hand, the work must be organised in such a way that an infected worker cannot give rise to a major outbreak. To this end, it is important to follow up and maintain the recommendations in the generic guide and the sectoral guide as closely as possible, and to pay particular attention to social distancing, hygiene and ventilation. There were a lot of questions, Mrs. Vanrobaeys. You had eight or nine very specific. There were also questions from Mr De Vuyst about this. As a result of what happened in Germany, we were already proactively monitoring the sector. The various services were already working intensively together. That has certainly helped us in this dossier to be very forceful.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed answers to all my various questions. There has been an outbreak in Germany, and we also know that meat processing is a sensitive sector in which people are often employed in precarious situations. There are foreign seasonal workers, there are many temporary contracts and there is a high risk of contagion. I can therefore only welcome the fact that you have been proactive and that there is cooperation and consultation between the various departments. After all, I received signals that the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain also had to check compliance with the generic guide and protocol agreements, but apparently there is more consultation between inspection services and more intensive cooperation. I can only stress that this is necessary and that the measures must be complied with quickly, when there are problems and certainly infections. FEBEV's question was whether additional research was needed on the spread of the coronavirus in the cold chain. That was also important to me, because meat processing is not the only sector that works with cold chains....................................................................................................................................................................................... Since then, there have not been the same outbreaks in these other sectors, which can only reassure both employers and workers in those other sectors. It therefore requires a very specific follow-up by the various inspection services and by everyone working in meat processing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u60	Ms Vanrobaeys, following the police regulation of 29 July 2020 of the Antwerp provincial governor concerning additional measures in the fight against the coronavirus COVID-19, a total of 11 complaints concerning telework were received from the Welzijn Overzicht op het Werk voor de provincie Antwerpen, of which 8 through the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service. In a number of cases, questions were asked for information, to which an answer was given. In fact, the TWW inspection is not responsible for monitoring compliance with a police regulation, as this is the responsibility of the police. This was also clearly mentioned on the website of the FOD WASO. The territorially competent management, TWW Antwerp, has also contacted the office of the Antwerp governor to point out that TWW does not exercise any supervisory powers in this respect. Nevertheless, the complaints were used to check whether the federal measures to limit the spread of the Covid-19 coronavirus were effectively complied with in the companies. Thus five warning letters were sent, of course within the federal powers. Three complaints are still under investigation. During a consultation on 13 August of the National Crisis Centre, which also involved the provincial governors and the chairman of the FOD WASO, it was pointed out that some provisions in provincial police decisions were contrary to federal legislation, in particular as regards temperature measurements. The police decisions were therefore adapted after that consultation, so that they conform to federal regulations. The commitment was also made to consult with the competent federal authorities in the future before announcing a police decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u61	Madam President, Minister, I think the problem was just there. At some point, provinces and local authorities were given the power to take additional measures when the virus would flare up in their region or locally. They still have that power, by the way. However, it was found that at that time a number of measures were taken, such as the obligation to telework throughout the province of Antwerp, and they were not complied with in a particular company, those workers who could not be enforced through their appropriate channels. It had to go through the police, but when they contacted the police, especially in the beginning, they sometimes asked if they thought they had nothing else to do. It is just as important that such a ban can be enforced in the event of a flare-up. I only hope that if this happens again in the future, there will be good consultation so that there will be no more contradictions between the federal, provincial and local provisions, because this is indeed work-related. When such prohibitions or the obligation to telework are introduced, I hope that they can be enforced through the appropriate channels or at least in consultation, and that they do not contradict each other, so that workers know who to address and how to enforce them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u62	In an online petition, Brantano's employees ask for more transparency about Brantano's sale, among other things they want to know how much the auction house, the curators and the employees will earn from this sale and they ask for a correct remuneration and buyer. If you are aware of this petition, your Policy Cell has already been addressed and, if so, what action is being taken on it."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u63	The General Directorate for Welfare Supervision of the Work has not carried out any checks at the sale at Brantano and has not received any requests to that effect. As you could see from the images in the media, the problems are mainly in long queues outside the store. Its enforcement takes place in the context of urgent measures to limit the spread of corona/COVID-19 and rests with the police. The competent social mediator of the collective labour relations administration has also received no such request. We were not informed, nor were we informed of an online petition, in connection with the sale of Brantano. Unfortunately, therefore, I cannot say much about this. We have not been involved in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u64	I was shocked that the sale went that way. The employer is bankrupt and the employees are dismissed, but they are still being called up to have a sale, and that is still in corona times. There were really people crying behind the register because they couldn't handle that pressure, next to the fear of additional infections. This sale is now coming to an end, but it has taken a number of weeks. Every time, there were people outside. Brantano's employees deserve more respect than what they've been given. I'll be sure to contact you again about that petition. I think they're asking for more clarity. That is also a part of the jurisdiction of justice. It is a question of dealing with the bankruptcy. In my opinion, they are asking for more clarity about the efforts they have made in the sale and what proceeds they have to pay and what proceeds go to the curators. Of course, that also depends on the jurisdiction of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u65	I wrote this question on September 1, and I was concerned about the possibility of quarantine of entire classes. I adapt my question somewhat to the situation. There have been class quarantines since the beginning of the school year. These situations exist today. In such cases, it is easy to understand that, although the institution had to react very quickly, the sudden nature of this measure necessarily surprised more than one parent. He could still surprise more parents. This disrupts the organisation of families and, of course, also the professional obligations. However, as previously seen, parents who had to juggle between children at home and telework have found themselves in advanced states of exhaustion. In addition, annual leave in most homes was used in the containment period and during the summer holidays. This means that today, parents facing an emergency quarantine situation, announced on Mondays for Tuesday, for example, would not have much opportunity. Minister, I know that you have been extremely attentive to these difficulties during the confinement period. We have often had the opportunity to discuss this and I come back to you because I think it is imperative to extend the measures that you yourself have taken with regard to special parental leave related to the situation of coronavirus. Perhaps it needs to be developed and, in particular, the agility with which it can be taken. Indeed, now, parents can be notified the day before. This greatly complicates their family and professional organization. Are you considering extending this leave by a few more months? What solutions do you envisage in the face of this situation, which has changed significantly from last academic year?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u66	Colleagues, your questions have different aspects. They concern both the quarantine of children and the extension of parental leave. There were questions about collective agreement No. 103 and the conditions for granting parental leave following corona parental leave. By decision of the power of attorney No. 45 of 26 June 2020, the Corona Parental Leave measure was extended once, from 1 July 2020 to 30 September 2020, and the modalities for single parents and parents of children with disabilities were slightly adapted. For the time being, this measure will not be extended. Moreover, this possibility was no longer explicitly provided for in the decree of special powers in question. In addition, the government no longer has special powers for this purpose. I have just understood in the course of the work that the committee is taking legislative initiatives to do so. Parliament can play its part in this. In addition, in the meantime, schools have reopened their doors, so there is no urgent need to take further action at this time. In the event of the closure of a school or crèche there are many possibilities, many of which are offered or supported by the government. I am thinking here of the reception services of cities, municipalities and civil society organisations for sick children, the care of family members, unless there is a risk of infection, and whether or not there is partial inactivity of parents, namely if one of the parents is not working full-time because of temporary unemployment or part-time employment contracts. In these cases, they are able to take care of their children. Temporary unemployment may also be used, with a quarantine attestation, if the doctor considers the quarantine necessary. In addition, telework is still frequently carried out in certain functions. Depending on the age of a child and the extent to which it is ill, telework can also be combined with a child at home. There are clear signs that, on average, fewer days off have been taken compared to previous years. People have gone less on vacation. The combination of work and family life has sometimes been easier because of telework. Some took a coronavirus parental leave, resulting in a high balance of days off for many people. Leave for imperative reasons or social leave may also be taken for a maximum of 10 days in the event of unforeseen circumstances unrelated to the work. I am also thinking of unpaid leave, which can be included in mutual agreement with the employer. Finally, there is also time-credit with motive, such as the provision of assistance or care to a seriously ill minor child who is part of the family, for a maximum period of 51 months, for a period of one month or three months, as well as other motives within the same balance, such as the care of a child under eight years of age. There is also a thematic leave for medical assistance to a member of the household or family suffering from a serious illness, for a period of one to three months. In particular, when a minor child is hospitalized for a full-time week, this leave is extended for an additional week. It is in addition to other thematic leave, such as simple parental leave, coronavirus leave to be taken until the end of September or the new leave for close care. On the question of the adaptation of collective agreement No. As regards the time-credit, I formally asked the NAR to adapt it so that workers could switch to time-credit leave without difficulty. A basic agreement has therefore been reached on this subject. That goes to the Council of Ministers on Friday in a package. We hope that this anomaly can be corrected as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u67	Minister, your answer leaves me somewhat puzzled. Since the beginning of March, none of the structures and mechanisms had imagined that we would find ourselves in such a situation. You have mentioned, for example, medical assistance, but this aspect does not correspond to the problems involved. We are not talking about children who are going to have to be hospitalized, but simply about children who, because they sneeze twice, had fever and found themselves by chance in a class where two positive cases have been detected - for example, their teacher - will be quarantined - that is, twice five working days plus weekends. Solutions will have to be found for them. You talked about childcare opportunities. However, this system is not yet covered by a protocol. This is a real problem, since neither grandparents nor child care providers can take over. In other words, the mechanisms that were installed before March 2020 - to respond to cases of regular, traditional and recognized diseases - do not respond to these exceptional circumstances. You mentioned the impossibility of an extension. In my view, an initiative could come from Parliament. We talked about it at the beginning of the afternoon, but it's going to take too long, minister. Here is my real concern: 15 days after the course was resumed, three classes had already been quarantined, before a return to school. And then we're announcing a potential quarantine. That is why I believe that initiatives are absolutely necessary this week or next week. However, parliamentary work, at best, could only lead to a vote in plenary in three or four weeks' time. I say in the best of cases: without second reading or the opinion of the National Labour Council, with the opinion of the Court of Auditors, etc. We know how it works. We see that at this very moment, parents express a real need, because they are in a situation of never seen and in the face of a lack of response. I know that this is not your personal responsibility, but we are witnessing a kind of emptiness, because everyone is a little lost. Neither Parliament, nor the government, nor anyone else is able to take over, and this is a real problem. Nevertheless, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u68	I share the feeling of the chairman. Many of the measures are, in fact, patchwork that has been dragged around because they do not meet the conditions. It is not a question of seriously ill children, and parental leave should simply serve to raise children. I have already asked my question during the holiday period and now I am afraid that more and more schools will go into quarantine, teachers will be absent, students will not be allowed to go to school for a while to reduce the risk of infection. After September, those parents are gonna be there... Teleworking is working, not getting your kid quarantined and maybe even some preteaching on top of it. For leave for compelling reasons, that's 10 days. In addition, unpaid leave requires the employer's agreement. So I think a specific leave of absence is really necessary. The easiest way seems to me to extend corona parental leave. At the same time, we must be prepared to consider to what extent the modalities may need to be adapted to the new situation. After all, it is a question of dealing with the school quarantine problems. We really need a measure to support parents. When a school goes into quarantine, there aren't many possibilities after the end of September: there are no protocols, and children do their quarantine with grandparents, they don't just do it. Because I was already afraid of that scenario, I asked the question about the transition to time-credit. As far as I am concerned, however, this is an emergency question, in case there is no solution by the end of September. Can parents still switch to a time loan? I hope that will be the case. Parliament can indeed take an initiative, but it will not be ready by the end of September. From October 1st, parents will be in some kind of vacuum. If there's a problem with the kids at the school, I don't know what to do with them at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u69	I think the two previous speakers were clear. I had a question for clarification, Madam Secretary. With regard to the degressivity and the benefits to be paid, on Friday you will present the agreement of the Group of Ten to the Council of Ministers in the hope that an initiative will be taken there. Here you say you can't do that because the powers of attorney are done. I know that, of course. The extension was never planned either. Is that the difference? There is also a unanimous request from the Group of Ten to extend corona parental leave. Is that technically the difference why you can't do this? Or do I misunderstand? I would also like to join Mr Vanrobaeys. I think that we should certainly be able to talk, even in Parliament's womb, about a few modalities that we could change in order to find a majority to make something possible for specific cases where children have to be quarantined. Then corona parental leave could be a good carrier for this. I'm sure of it. If you'll just give me that technical clarification. I did not quite understand why you would not be able to do this now, but I did understand the degressivity and the other things I mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u70	To answer your last question, I have to put a number of nuances. I have the impression that there is a lot going on here, also with regard to the answer I just gave. Mrs Willaert, the agreement of the Group of Ten will be discussed at the Council of Ministers on Friday. That's about the government wanting to carry this out. I have just mentioned that there is a budgetary cost to be presented. There are two that must be concluded by collective agreement. These are collective agreements drawn up by the social partners and declared binding. In this sense, the government should not intervene, unless I, as Minister of Labour, declare the collective agreements binding. The freezing of the degressivity is done with an ordinary KB that the Minister of Work can always take. I have the tool to do that. The last aspect is about the equalisation of the holiday money. This will require a legislative basis. Even if the government agrees, there will have to be a discussion with the parties that are negotiating for a new government today in order to seek a majority in Parliament for this. The current government cannot take that decision today, nor does it have a majority in favour of it, nor does it belong to its powers of initiative. That is a very important point. Mrs Willaert, I am very formal: it is not true that the social partners or the Group of Ten are all asking parties to extend corona parental leave. They may have discussed this, but they have not already agreed on it, because there is no agreement on it today. In this sense, there is therefore a difference from the conditions under collective agreement No. 103, which states that 12 months must have worked to be able to enter the parental leave system. In this context, the period during which people were temporarily unemployed will also count. That is something completely different, and they have agreed on this, but not on the extension of corona parental leave. I will give you my personal opinion, but this is a discussion we have often had in Parliament: I see today that Corona parental leave offers solutions for many families. I received the figures from the RVA this morning: 160,000 parents have applied for corona parental leave. In addition, 30,000 people and plus ordinary parental leave have applied for in the last period, for example because a family with children wants full-time parental leave, which is not possible under the rules of corona parental leave, only for single people or families with children with disabilities. A total of 190,000 parents have applied for parental leave. That's immense. It should also be borne in mind that, in addition to their telework, these parents are at home today and can take up part of their children's care, but obviously not full-time. Personally, therefore, I am in favour of considering how we can extend this scheme and what modalities it will take before the end of the year, but today I do not have the instrument to do so. There is also a whole discussion about children who are in quarantine, because the class or school closes because of an infection. There may also be a welcome parent infected, which means that children have to stay home. You have all received the questions of the Family Union and the Ligue des Familles who are working to ensure that the parents of these children can go fully into temporary unemployment. This goes far beyond the measures we have taken. We have always said that people could go through the corona test or quarantine test into temporary unemployment, if they had to stay at home in an infected case or if one of the families was infected and they were in a risk situation. In many cases this does not apply. Children should simply remain in quarantine after a negative test due to school and daycare. It is very important to include these cases in temporary unemployment. We want to talk about this, but I have listed what is already possible today, such as asking for social leave when a child is ill. You know I'm a young grandmother. Monday morning I also got a phone call that the granddaughter of a year is sick and couldn't go to day care. The two moms have to work full-time and there's no solution either. Grandparents are not a solution. There is now a new category of children in quarantine, but a lot of parents need to find solutions for children who are sick and do not go to school. I am open to seeking solutions. However, we cannot just include this in temporary unemployment. If we wanted to do so, we would also need a legal basis for this. However, solutions already exist in the short term. Use it. We want to continue the debate. I understand that you are calling for attention to be given to this, but we have already done a great deal. I don't think you can blame me for not being a partner in this story. Why should a parent with a sick child be treated differently from a parent whose child has to be quarantined because of an infection in a classroom when it is not infected itself? We must also have the courage to think about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u71	I would like to return briefly to what you have just said. What has become unbearable, in my view, is to see how unfair, unfair and difficult these situations are to deal with. Parents have been asked to make efforts for seven months. What will these parents do, who, once faced with conventional and regular childhood diseases, will have to count with a second source of absence? Between today and January, we will inevitably see an increase in the number of patients due to the resurgence of the classic diseases of autumn and winter, which will be combined with these quarantines. I am really devoid of those parents who, over the next six months, will have to find solutions again where, as of 30 September, there are no more. The question of temporary unemployment was one of the possible avenues. Why not provide for temporary unemployment in the event of a four-year certificate? I do not think that we will face a number of exponential cases, but to remain unresolved between the end of September and the beginning of November seems to me extremely painful for all these families. Nevertheless, I know that you are working in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u72	Madam Minister, I will not repeat what the President has just said. All I can do is agree. However, what you say surprises me. On 18 June the Group of Ten proposed extending a number of measures until 31 December. One of them was about corona parental leave. I therefore wonder whether the government has revised these proposals. After all, there was an agreement within the Group of Ten. I base myself on the text of 18 June. Now you say the opposite, namely that the proposal was not renewed. That surprises me, because that text is right here in front of me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u73	Madam Secretary, I have the same question as Mr Vanrobaeys.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u74	I can only say that they have not re-established it in their question and in the agreement they have made on this. We have also explicitly asked for it. Together, they have only agreed on collective agreement No. 103.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u75	"Mrs. de Minister, in the judgment of 14 May 2019, cited on the edge, on the basis of a question for a preliminary ruling from the French RepublicAudiencia Nacional of Spain, the Court held that Member States should have an objective, accessible and reliable system of recording the daily working time of individual workers so that workers' organisations can monitor compliance with Directives 2003/88/EC (working time) and 89/391/EEC (safety and health at work).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u76	Ms Vanrobaeys, the judgment of the Court of Justice of 14 May 2019 indicates that the working time performed should be determined in an objective, reliable and accessible manner, so that there is no burden of proof on workers. It follows that in all circumstances the legislation must impose the use of a specific registration system, e.g. a clock, is not, however, a matter for decision. There are other methods that can be used to determine working time objectively. In this context, it should be noted that Belgian working time legislation already contains a number of framework measures, such as the obligation to include the timetables in the working regulations and the prohibition of working outside those timetables. Exceptions are possible only if strict procedures or conditions are complied with. The question of whether Belgian legislation complies with European legislation has not been assessed by the Court of Justice so far. Those who believe that our legislation is not in conformity usually do so from a particular reading of the Court of Justice judgment of 14 May 2019, namely that the judgment would require the generalised use of a specific registration system. However, the latter has not yet been resolved. This issue has now been placed on the agenda of the National Labour Council. My administration will participate there together with a number of experts in the discussion between the social partners on the impact of the judgment of 14 May 2019 on Belgian legislation. We will initially await the outcome of these discussions and, on that basis, assess whether a legislative initiative is appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u77	Madam Secretary, I am glad that it is on the agenda of the National Labour Council. I am waiting with you for discussions between the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u78	At the end of August 2020, the company announced its intention to carry out collective redundancies. In her communication, she explained in detail the reasons which, in her view, required this collective dismissal. These reasons are directly related to the VOCID-19 pandemic, i.e., a significant decrease in activities in the majority of its restoration sites, as well as the forced closure of many restoration sites. The company states that a return to a level of activity comparable to previous years cannot be expected. The intention of collective redundancies is 96 employees and 277 workers. The information procedure and consultation are under way within the works council, in accordance with the law of 13 February 1998, better known as the Renault law. The aim of this procedure is to reduce, if possible, the impact of planned collective redundancies. It is not up to the government to organise the management of a business, but it must take the necessary support measures in the context of this crisis. That is what we have done, among other things by taking measures concerning temporary unemployment to which you refer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As you said, unfortunately, the fate of 380 people is threatened. The increase in telework caused by the VOCID-19 pandemic has meant that business restaurants remain half empty. For Sodexo as for Kompass and the others in this sector, we know that recovery is difficult. As you said, the Renault procedure is in motion and it is obviously a good thing, but there has still been a lack of communication with the workers. These have remained in the dark. Indeed, it is known that the next extraordinary board of directors will take place on September 24. They're doing their best, but it's a little long when you know you're gonna lose your job. In addition to the Renault procedure, I am concerned about the future of this company's workers. Are we not going to make employment worse in future hirings? I am thinking in particular of flexi-jobs, part-time work or even temporary work. The trade union secretary of the CSC Food fears that Sodexo will take advantage of this crisis to separate himself from some workers who are older, and then engage through more precarious jobs when a possible activity resumes. Do you have any information on this or any thought to do?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u80	Mrs Thémont, the legislation on temporary work is based on the delicate balance between the employer's need for flexibility and the demand for stability of contracts and job security on the part of the worker. Even more so than in other areas of labour law, the diverging interests of employers and employees in this area must be reconciled. Temporary employment is only possible for a specific number of reasons which are described in the Temporary Employment Act. For the most important of these reasons, there are limits to the maximum duration during which the ground may be invoked. The law entrusts the determination of these limits to the social partners of the National Labour Council who have concluded National Collective Agreement No. 108 of 16 July 2013 on this subject. A change in the rules in this respect requires active involvement of the social partners within the NTC. More generally, I would like to point out that the social partners at the CNT have always indicated in the past that they want to be actively involved in any change in the rules on temporary work, given the delicate balance on which this legislation is based. Therefore, in my view, the redrafting of temporary work legislation requires support from both sides of the social dialogue. I believe that significant progress has been made during this Parliament. I am thinking, for example, of the deletion of the 48-hour rule which may leave the temporary worker in a situation of legal uncertainty since his written contract of employment was not established until after the acting mission had already been initiated or carried out. With regard to successive day-to-day contracts, the social partners were asked to evaluate the rules, which led to stricter obligations for employers and a commitment to reduce the number of successive day-to-day contracts by 20%. The results of this evaluation and the possible introduction of more stringent measures are currently being discussed by the social partners. In addition, considerable emphasis was placed on the application of existing regulations. The inspection was asked to increase the number of checks on abuse of temporary work. I hope that we will be able to continue this work in the future and that, together with the social partners, we can make more progress in improving the situation of temporary workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u81	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to hear that the social partners are involved in this work and that the inspection will monitor the abuse of temporary work. We know that 39% of temporary workers today find it difficult to make ends meet, compared to 25% of other workers. It is true that the interim contract mainly has an advantage for employers who, instead of going through a cumbersome and complex redundancies procedure (especially in economic matters), can simply decide not to renew a final contract. I also hear that you are considering amending the rules in this respect and that the social partners want to be involved in this process of change, which I welcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u82	Question No 55008452C by Mrs Kitir is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u83	Can we consider that everyone should refer to their question, or is it too complicated?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u84	I'm going to group my two questions together, to save time. This morning, the workers of AB InBev returned to work, and I would like to greet them on behalf of my group. They can return to work with their heads high because, in addition to being part of those heroes who have turned the country, like many other workers, they have also raised their heads to protect their health and that of their colleagues against the coronavirus. They had to return to work after more than a week of strike, which is not nothing. Today we have to ask ourselves why they had to stop for more than a week. In fact, the multinational AB InBev has been in full swing since the start of the VOCID crisis. Management has even put pressure on production to increase and the company to generate more profits. In the field, however, it must be noted that management did not move when a large number (about 10% of logistics department staff) of workers with coronavirus were announced. Today, two of these workers are in a coma and one of them is even between life and death. It was also the workers who had to insist that the screening be organized, with the help of a local medical home (Medicine for the People), who went there to carry out the tests. Everywhere, we hear recommendations that you have to be tested when you have been in contact with a contaminated person and put yourself in isolation while waiting for the results. In AB InBev, however, other rules appear to apply. No one has been quarantined and, even today, many of the people tested have not yet received the results. Worse still, it was the management that collectively announced to all its workers that they were all negative. Since when is the employer reporting test results? It's unthinkable! The Director of Human Resources said, however, that she would warn workers once three cases had been detected. She didn't, and so she lied! Yet, with 7.4 billion euros in profits in 2019, AB InBev has the means to take all measures to protect workers. Instead of protecting her workers, she despised them. Perhaps you cannot imagine, Madam Minister, the anger of the workers when they learned that a member of the government had been tested positive at the VOCID-19 and that from then on all the negotiators and the King had been tested within the hour and rightly quarantined. They, the workers, they've been treated differently. They do not support this double standard. The management intimidated them. People who wanted to fight for their health were threatened. I was able to see it myself. I've been very present this week. Minister, the right to strike has been very strongly attacked. There were bailiffs there. We even sent them home. Two people received €11,000 in periodic payments, which were to be paid within 48 hours. Imagine a worker in the sad disarray of knowing his colleague between life and death who makes sacrifices with his purchasing power, who stops himself and who receives a penalty payment of 11,000 euros in his mailbox, with seizure of his furniture if he does not pay within 48 hours! Today, thanks to this struggle, these periodic penalty payments have been withdrawn. This is obviously positive, but it does not prevent the problem from remaining complete. I myself was arrested by this bailiff on the spot: a true sheriff of modern times, Madam Minister! The FGTB does not intend to let that kind of thing happen. As I said, today the workers have returned to work and got a lot of things. Thanks to their struggle, there is now plexi, gel. The management, after two days of strike, even called the social inspection and the report was positive because things had been put in place during the strike. That's what I heard on the spot and I'm counting on you to check that that's how it happened because if it is, it's really serious. I don't know if you can get the result of the social inspection. In any case, that would be important. You really have to realize that what happened there is going to be a precedent because there will be many other companies that will have to fight because of the crisis and you have a responsibility for things to go well in companies. I will not repeat all my questions that you have received. Minister, what are you going to do to protect the health of workers? Do you condemn the practices of the management who relied on the bailiffs? I'm sorry I've been so long, but I think it was worth it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u85	I'm a Liegeese, too, and I went to the scene. I will not repeat everything my colleague has said. It is true, however, that this company AB InBev, which is brewing millions, has failed to make arrangements for the well-being of its workers. If today the work has resumed, it is thanks to the strong negotiations of the FTGB, in particular. It is true that the workers went on strike. I would remind you that a strike is a right, a right that must be respected. There was a real lack of dialogue between the company and the workers. The Director of Human Resources and the Prevention Advisor did not take on their responsibilities and even worse, they did not communicate the problem, which they even wanted to stifle to the detriment of the health of all workers at the plant. This behaviour is unacceptable, especially as we urge each and every one of our fellow citizens to be careful to protect themselves and to fight collectively. As my colleague said, ten people have been tested positively and two people are in a coma. Madam Minister, do you not think that the bailiff who imposed these periodic penalty payments on these workers who were on strike (2,500 euros after 24 hours) far exceeded his prerogatives? I believe that there is unanimous opinion on this matter. I find this unacceptable and I would like to have your position on this. As far as the labour inspectorate is concerned, has she actually visited the site? In my question tabled last week, I asked whether it was not wise to seize this social inspection since the case is emblematic? Have you had any feedback on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u86	Mrs. Song's question is irrelevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u87	First of all, it should be pointed out that in order to complete the generic "Working in Safety" guide, the food industry has concluded a very comprehensive sectoral guide detailing a series of guidelines on social distancing and hygiene measures to be followed in enterprises in the sector. In any case, I can inform you that an urgent request for mediation has been made to the FPS Work, Labour and Social Dialogue because of the conflict within AB InBev-Jupille in connection with the ten cases of COVID-19. The first conciliation took place on 8 September, but at this stage it was not possible to reconcile the positions of each other. The strike action therefore continued. At the explicit request of myself and my policy cell, the social mediator called the conciliation office on 14 September. The result of this conciliation is that a meeting of the freed-up staff will be held as soon as possible with a view to resume work as soon as possible, in which everyone can participate while respecting health and safety measures, with mutual respect for each speaker. There will be an independent external audit within 15 days, consisting of six external experts, two of whom are appointed by management, two by the FGTB and two by the CSC and chaired by an inspector from the Welfare at Work Section. It is stated that the persons in question will not be part of it. The external audit will report to the Committee on Prevention and Protection at Work. The objective is to review the health measures taken under the VOCID-19, to assess procedures and processes and to identify any deficiencies or deficiencies and to draw up recommendations for the future. Social dialogue will resume and confidence will be restored in line with the existing sectoral collective agreement. The problem of periodic penalty payments is linked to the return to work. Pending this, the periodic penalty payments are suspended and will be abolished as soon as work is resumed. After the staff meeting, according to my latest information, by the way, you confirmed that the staff also went back to work effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u88	Thank you, Minister. As I said earlier, the workers, thanks to their struggle, were able to get plexiglas and gels installed in the company. As has just been said, an external audit will also be put in place to identify what has caused this contamination and to develop a set of rules that will quickly prevent the spread of the virus in this company. These things are indeed the result of the fact that the workers have stopped. It should be noted that since March, on a daily basis, workers were returning to the company via a turning barrier that was never disinfected. They received a stock of ten masks for ten eight-hour working days, while a mask only protects four hours a day. The clarks were not cleaned at the break changes. Surface technicians have not received the necessary means to clean properly, so the showers and toilets really leave something to be desired. It will obviously be a matter of improving all this. I have enough confidence in the team that will be there to settle all this. But it will also be necessary to take stock of the reasons that led to this. In my view, the minister did not respond sufficiently to express her condemnation of management's attitude, which attacks what is still a fundamental right of workers. They must have the minimum necessary, namely, the introduction of health measures to protect their own health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u89	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. This is AB InBev. Fortunately, people are working again, there will be an external audit and social mediation has started. However, there is a common thread in the contacts I have. I, coronaproof, with few unionists in the room, started to speak at different formations. Although the employees, also at AB InBev, have continued to work during the corona crisis and during the lockdown, and their company has made a profit, I have noticed a complete lack of respect for what they have earned. A lot of people told me that. It was kind of the red thread. Again and again we hear that people must enforce security measures. Sometimes they had to pay for their own things, buy them and bring them home. This is not the case everywhere, but I hear it all the same. At AB InBev it's really escalated. Sometimes, therefore, we have to enforce things effectively, in this case by means of a strike. The workers stood up for their health. I can imagine that it has a huge impact on everyone who works in a company, when one hears that two workers are really sick in a department, one of which floats between life and death. If they want to enforce security measures, they will also be intimidated by bailiffs and periodic penalty payments in order to stop the strike. However, they simply stood up for a basic right, namely the health of themselves and of all colleagues within the department. I hope that companies will deal with this in a different way in the future and will really respect the work their employees have done. They kept things going. I hope that companies will stand up for their employees so that they can continue to work in good health. Social mediation is here. The workers are back at work. The external audit will be there as well. I regret, however, that this had to escalate in such a way before adequate measures were taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u90	Minister, thank you for your answers. Anyway, I'm staying in my positions. In my view, management could have made more rapid arrangements and responsibilities to ensure that workers' working conditions and well-being were respected during this health crisis. I am thinking of the infected workers and the tracing that has not been carried out. I say again: it is the profitability of the company that passes before the well-being of the workers. This company has upset the working days and imposed schedules that have become the norm, with productivity targets that have been strengthened. You talked about the role of trade unions, in particular the FGTB, and the establishment of an independent external audit, as well as periodic penalty payments. However, you did not tell me if you found it normal that the bailiff went to the workers. Has he not exceeded his prerogatives? I find this scandalous and inhuman! I support the workers, who have continued their work at AB-InBev under such conditions. Perhaps we should penalise financially this kind of enterprise which does not take the appropriate steps for workers. I understand that urgent applications have been made to the Employment FPS, but we will have to remain vigilant afterwards and carry out more checks in these companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u91	Minister, if you can't come by the end of the month, perhaps we can turn the remaining questions into written questions? Or should we bet on a second date? We know that the days ahead are uncertain.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u92	My questions are as follows: 55008662C and 55008665C may be converted into written questions, if I can get the answers. Then we'll see.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u93	All questions and their answers are ready and can be sent by email to members. We could also agree on a new date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-16-55-commissie-ic262x.u94	All right. We will see this with the services. Madam Minister, I would like to thank you very much for your regular presence and the time you have spent in committee: it was precious and far from being the case for all ministers.
