ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u1	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, welcome. This Committee on External Relations often deals with European issues. I believe that 99% of the questions raise the EU's position on international affairs. I am pleased that the Minister responsible for European Affairs is here today to answer a number of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Ingels asked me to turn her oral question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u3	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ingels' 55004252C will be converted into a written question. Mrs Van Bossuyt, you have the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u4	Minister, thank you very much for being here and answering the questions. Finally, I would say, because the question I will now be asking dates back to 7 February 2020. That was four months ago. The question also appears to have gone over and over between different ministers. Apparently she's turned out okay now and we can finally get an answer after four months. My question concerns the new European enlargement strategy proposed by the European Commission in February 2020. In this new strategy more attention will be paid to the rule of law. This will be one of the cornerstones of the new enlargement policy. Throughout the accession process, constant monitoring will be carried out to ensure that the principles of the rule of law are not violated. It also provides for the possibility of imposing sanctions on candidate countries which are not making sufficient progress. The accession process can even be completely stopped. That's a whole new thing. Finally, there will also be more support and encouragement for the candidate countries which are implementing the necessary reforms. I have some questions about this. What do you think of this renewed enlargement strategy of the European Union? Do you agree that it is time to put new emphasis on European enlargement policy? It was mainly President Macron who insisted on this. Do you support these new accents? Do you agree that the new enlargement strategy should be applied immediately? Do you agree that the opening of accession negotiations with northern Macedonia and Albania on the basis of these new criteria is premature?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u5	Madam President, it is a pleasure for me to be able to answer questions for the first time in your committee. Mrs Van Bossuyt, I am sorry it took so long. However, I have continued to reply in all the committees where this was possible. But it is without a doubt my fault that you had to wait so long. I apologize for that. As part of your question has also been asked by Mr Dallemagne, I will read out part of my answer in French. I sometimes make a mistake in translation and then it is difficult to keep the text completely understandable. That is why I shall read out my answer in the two languages. In the autumn of 2019, France formulated a proposal for a new enlargement methodology based on four principles: a gradual association based on several successive stages, strict conditions with a precise definition of the criteria of passage, concrete benefits based on the progress achieved and, finally, gradual and proportional reversibility. The European Commission has based its communication of 5 February on this French proposal, among other things. This communication is a positive overall step for the enlargement process. The document rightly stresses the need to maintain a clear EU perspective, but with respect for strict conditionality and for an assessment of the candidate countries on the basis of their own merits. Moreover, fundamental European values relating to democracy and rule of law remain central and the principles of phasing and reversibility proposed by France are maintained. This new methodology for the enlargement process applies to the accession negotiations with North Macedonia and Albania. Negotiations are already under way with Serbia and Montenegro, but I think it would be good if these countries too would respect the spirit of the new methodology. The European Council of 26 March approved the opening of negotiations with Northern Macedonia and Albania. An important aspect of this decision which Belgium will follow closely is the fact that the opening of the first chapters remains conditional specifically for Albania. Indeed, the country still needs to achieve a number of concrete results in the areas of electoral law, the rule of law, justice reform and the fight against organized crime and corruption. The summit with the countries of the Western Balkans, which took place via videoconference on 6 May, was an opportunity to reaffirm the European perspective for those countries. However, the question of enlargement as such was not addressed at this summit. Finally, I would like to say a few words about Bosnia and Herzegovina. On 29 May 2019, the Commission published an opinion on whether Bosnia and Herzegovina met the so-called Copenhagen criteria. This was found to be insufficient. The institutions that guarantee democracy, the rule of law, human rights and the protection of minorities must be strengthened. Reforms to ensure a stable market economy are still at an early stage and more needs to be done for the adoption and application of the acquis of the European Union. The Commission formulated 14 priority areas of action which the Council, together with the membership criteria, will review later. The fact that Bosnia and Herzegovina sees its future in the European Union deserves our support. After all, it is the most important lever for a stable future for the country. The Belgian public authorities are therefore also committed to exchanging expertise with Bosnian colleagues. The shortcomings of the local authorities in the reception of asylum seekers and in the settlement of the asylum procedure are of concern to me just like you. That is why this issue is closely linked to the Bosnian application for EU membership. The Bosnian authorities are beginning to realise that they must take action. The reception capacity of refugees and migrants has recently been expanded thanks to the opening of a new asylum centre, largely funded by the European Union. But a further expansion is pressing, as the influx of new refugees and migrants continues. The EU is investigating this together with international organisations and with the Bosnian authorities. At present, the latter are neither financially nor institutionally able to do so alone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u6	I give the floor to Mrs Van Bossuyt and then to Mr De Vriendt, who had also put a question on Bosnia and Herzegovina.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I think it is very important that we watch closely the strict compliance with the Copenhagen criteria which date back to 1993. With the accession of Bulgaria and Romania, we have been able to identify the consequences of premature accession. You say that the new accession strategy should also be applied to Serbia. Do you share this view with Turkey? Turkey is still a candidate country. The new accession strategy explicitly provides for the possibility of complete cessation of the accession process. Do you think we should finally tell Turkey that there is no place for them in the European Union? That would only be fair. I hope you will answer this additional question. You are also talking about the importance of membership of countries in the Western Balkans on stability there. I believe that membership is not only important to create stability. As you know, after the war in Yugoslavia, the European Union created the Stabilisation and Association Agreements to establish stability in the region. This is a good example that can not only ensure stability and reform, but also that there are alternatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u8	Mr Minister, I have not been able to ask my question, but you have answered it. This shows very high efficiency. My question was specifically about the problem of the asylum procedure and the respect of international law by Bosnia. You have indicated that certain levers must be used in the accession procedures. Compliance with a number of essential guarantees and rights, including, for example, the right to an asylum application, is one of those levers. A visit to the region, together with a number of Members of the European Parliament, gave rise to my question. Although Bosnia is an official candidate for membership of the European Union, I have found that it cannot at present guarantee certain essential rights for people who wish to apply for asylum. A country such as Belgium can certainly guard that kind of guarantee during the accession process. You can see to that, possibly together with your foreign minister, because this is also happening at diplomatic level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u9	Merged Questions Ms Jadin's 5501921C and 55002004C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u10	Madam President, Minister, my question is at the same time about the situation of the rule of law in Poland and Hungary. The reason for this is the hearing on the rule of law and fundamental freedoms in Hungary which took place on 10 December in the General Affairs Council under the Article 7 procedure. The Hungarian spokesperson Kovacs called the ministers present the Soros Orchestra. Meanwhile, in Poland, a trial has started against Professor Sadurski, who was critical of the reforms of the judiciary carried out by the PiS government. In the meantime, the local and regional Polish authorities adopted several resolutions declaring the territory a LGTB-free zone. So it's always getting worse. That is why I have a number of questions about the two situations. Firstly, what do you conclude from that hearing on 10 December? Can you inform us if you give your opinion on what follow-up steps should be taken in the Article 7 procedure on Hungary? Do you also consider that there is a violation of democratic, fundamental rights and the rule of law in Hungary? Secondly, can you inform us about the follow-up to the Article 7 procedure with regard to Poland? Do you think that there is also a serious violation of democracy, fundamental rights and the rule of law in Poland? Thirdly, what is your reaction to the fact that there are lawsuits against academics because of their criticism of the Polish Government, which puts very heavy pressure on freedom of expression and is actually referred to the trash can? I refer to the Sadurski case mentioned above. Fourthly, are you prepared to raise these issues and the issue of the LGTB-free zone at European level, in the General Affairs Council and in bilateral contacts with Poland? Fifthly, what is the government's position on the discussion under the multiannual financial framework in order to condition European funds to the state of the rule of law in the Member States? Sixthly, what new initiatives does the von der Leyen Commission see in order to guarantee the rule of law within the EU? The EU Commissioner, on behalf of Belgium, is also responsible for this issue. What is the Belgian position on the new initiatives of the von der Leyen Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u11	Minister, as a member of the Belgian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I regularly speak on the problem of human rights violations on the European continent. In recent weeks, some Member States of the European Union have continued their stumbling block against European values and our fundamental freedoms. The cases of Poland and Hungary are particularly worrying and the crisis of VOCID-19 does not seem to have stopped their conservative governments. On the contrary, they have used this crisis, in particular Hungary, to take measures which, moreover, have nothing to do with the management of the VOCID-19 crisis. After limiting the independence of justice and the media, Viktor Orbán has launched, since his re-election in 2018, a cultural "new era" project - this word is very scary and recalls even more tragic old words - aimed at promoting Christian and traditional values. Thus, a few days ago, the Hungarian Parliament - where the Prime Minister's government has a two-thirds majority - adopted a legislative amendment, Article 33, defining gender by "biological sex based on birth and genome". This article therefore provides for the non-modifiable entry of the sex of persons at birth in a national register and in identity documents, preventing transgender and intersex persons from changing their names and obtaining papers corresponding to their gender identity. Mr Minister, in the European Union, does Belgium intend to react formally to this development of Hungarian law? In September 2018, the European Parliament activated a procedure under Article 7 of the Treaty of the Union for breaching the values of the European Union, which can, in theory, lead to sanctions. What is the status of this procedure in the Council and what position does our country stand for? The Commission must submit its first report on the rule of law in each of the 27 Member States by the end of the year. How do you analyse this process and its contribution to the European arsenal to defend human rights? Finally, how do you coordinate on this matter with your colleague in charge of foreign affairs who represents our country in the Council of Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u12	Minister, I am not going to go back to the details or the questions that have already been asked by my colleagues Crombez and Lacroix. I too would like to underline the state of emergency that has been extended indefinitely in Hungary and Viktor Orbán's completely undemocratic attacks on opposition parties, on large cities that are controlled by opposition parties, against members of the LGBT community. All these measures are in addition to the long list of violations of human rights and the rule of law in Hungary, which in recent years have given the Orbán regime an autocratic look. I think that the reaction of the Member States of the European Union is still really too timid today. You must be congratulated, in particular, on the letter of 1 April with other European states, but I think our position can go further. My call is for stronger and more immediate action by the Council. Minister, what additional measures does Belgium intend to take with regard to these authoritarian drifts in Hungary? Has Belgium directly interacted bilaterally with the Hungarian Government on this matter since the letter of 1 April? Finally, do you intend to insist on trying to convince your European partners to initiate the procedure referred to in Article 7?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u13	Mr Crombez, Monsieur Lacroix, Monsieur Cogolati, first and foremost I quote Poland, then Hungary. On 20 December 2017, the European Commission launched the so-called Article 7 procedure on Poland. Since then, the General Affairs Council has discussed the situation on several aspects of the rule of law in Poland on a number of occasions. As guardian of the Treaties, the Commission will monitor further internal developments and respect for judgments of the Court of Justice. The same applies to the cases before the Court to which Mr Crombez refers in his question. Belgium, together with other like-minded countries, remains a leader in this debate within the General Affairs Council and therefore supports the Commission's efforts to set up a new procedure, the so-called rule of law cycle, for the follow-up of developments on the rule of law. This procedure will include the annual publication of reports on the rule of law in the Member States. The first publications are planned for this autumn. As regards the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF), Belgium supports the idea of making EU funds conditional on the situation regarding the rule of law in the Member States. The MFF discussions are still ongoing. Unfortunately, therefore, I cannot at the moment say whether and in what form conditionality will be accepted. As far as Igbt-free zones are concerned, I would like to refer to a parliamentary reply on 7 January in the committee of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Discrimination is and remains a major concern of Belgium and is part of Belgium's human rights policy priorities. With regard to Hungary, on 12 September 2018, MEPs voted in favour of initiating an Article 7 procedure in respect of Hungary. Since then, several hearings on the situation in Hungary have been organised within the framework of the General Affairs Council. The most recent one took place on December 10, 2019. During this hearing, with several colleagues, I asked specific questions about the independence of the judiciary, including the functioning of the Constitutional Court, freedom of the media and academic freedom in Hungary. This dialogue has been open, frank and constructive. However, it is premature to draw conclusions at this stage. Mr Lacroix, you are referring to the adoption of the law of 30 March by the Hungarian Parliament. A few days after this adoption, Belgium issued a joint statement with other EU Member States stressing the importance of respect for the principles of the rule of law and fundamental rights in times of crisis. The European Commission intends to monitor these emergency or emergency measures taken to combat the VOCID-19 epidemic and to verify their compatibility with the Union's core values. Belgium will be particularly careful to ensure that these observations are taken into account in the Belgian position in the General Affairs Council. Mr Lacroix, you also refer to the law passed by the Hungarian Parliament on 19 May 2020, which put an end to the recognition of the gender identity of transgender and intersex persons in Hungary. After that vote, Hungary became one of the only countries in the European Union to prohibit the registration of sex change in civil status. The Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights, Dunja Mijatovic, stated on the same day that this law was contrary to the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights and constituted a blow to the human dignity of transgender people. With regard to the activities of the Council of Europe, I can confirm that there is excellent cooperation between the FPS Justice and FPS Foreign Affairs departments in coordinating various important issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I am particularly pleased with the clear part of your answers, namely that Belgium will support Europe in creating a kind of semester on the rule of law, as is the case with the budget, and that Belgium is seeking a way to condition the resources for it. The sooner that happens, the better we'll find it. With regard to the other elements of your reply, the concerns about the IGT-free zones and questions about the independence of the judiciary, I note that a number of European Member States have for a number of years been drifting away from the rule of law and the protection of human rights. Responses to these reactions were rather soft reactions, which have little impact. I hope that Belgium will take the lead now that the actions are getting worse and the slipping is getting faster and faster. I hope that Belgium will react very drastically if necessary. It always starts with something small in one place. In the meantime, however, it has become a very serious issue in a number of Member States. There is a clear need for a firm counter-response. The Semester on the rule of law and the conditioning of resources can help, but that is not certain. I am counting on the government to react very strongly every time the slippage continues, and to make that clear enough. So far, nothing has been done to stop or reduce the slippage. It is getting worse and worse, and we are very concerned about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u15	Minister, thank you for the quality of your answer. I take note of the fact that Belgium is and remains at the forefront of respect for human rights and, in particular, of the European values of tolerance, human dignity and respect for each other's orientations, which the individual does not choose but has determined from birth and with which he must count his whole life. On the other hand, I would like these values to be made a priority and I agree with Mr Crombez's analysis in this regard. I believe that States such as Poland and, more particularly, Hungary, since 2018, are taking small-scale measures to test our ability to react, to draw up sanctions and to apply the articles of the Treaty of the Union. We must therefore be firm and not hesitate, whatever the violation, to recall the rule of law. I note, as you have pointed out, that the Commissioner for Human Rights of the European Court of Human Rights - attached to the Council of Europe - also strongly condemns the Hungarian Parliament's decision on transgender persons. I would add that, regardless of the national responsibilities we have taken in European chambers, there is also a political responsibility of the political families, particularly with regard to Poland and Hungary. In my view, some European political parties should react with much more firmness and dignity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u16	Minister, thank you. Of course, I agree with my colleague, Mr Lacroix. You said that the last hearing on the independence of the judiciary in Hungary had taken place on 10 December 2019 and that, for the moment, it was premature for you to react to the autocratic drifts in Hungary. To tell you the truth, I think it's quite the opposite. Today it is really urgent to react firmly, but also very clearly, to the drifts of the regime and to the power of Viktor Orbàn. This law of 30 March aims at everything, except to control the outbreak of VOCID-19. It aims primarily to muzzle the independent media, to put the political opposition at a standstill, to place the entire financial burden on the big cities that are controlled by the opposition parties, and to punish very harshly - we speak of five years in prison - everything that is declared fake news about the government's measures. I believe that these acts cannot be allowed to happen and that the primacy of fundamental freedoms and rights protected by the Charter of the European Union must be reaffirmed as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u17	Question No 55003814C by Mr De Vriendt and Question No 55004252C by Mrs Ingels will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u18	Madam President, Minister, as we know, there are many debates in the Council that are currently being held in order to arrive at a common European strategy on deconfining, following the various measures taken by the various Member States to deal with the unprecedented crisis our continent is experiencing and its consequences. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr. Minister, the following question. In the face of all the measures proposed by the European Commission in order to harmonise deconfinement, what is our country's position within the Council, and particularly as regards health, intra-European and socio-economic traffic issues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u19	Madam President, Mr Bayet, the roadmap published by the Commission and the President of the European Council on 15 April 2020 was an appropriate answer to the questions put by European leaders on 26 March. It contains a series of recommendations for Member States. The aim is to phase out restrictive measures in order to revive economic and social life while preserving public health. The preparation of this roadmap sets out a framework for European consultation and coordination of measures with cross-border implications. However, the conditions, criteria and deadlines for the repeal of measures depend on developments on the ground in each Member State. Of course, there is no single answer – one size fit all. This is why the Roadmap proposes a number of basic principles, such as a gradual approach and a commitment to sufficiency tests, which serve as a basis for targeted consultation between Member States. As a result of a recovery plan, the road map was welcomed by the Heads of State and Government on Thursday, 23 April. Given the importance of this issue, on 17 April I organised a video conference with Belgian ambassadors in the Member States of the European Union, as well as with our Permanent Representative to the European Union. We discussed the roadmap and the Chiefs of Post explained exit strategies in their respective jurisdictions. This video conference was particularly useful in order to better understand the situation in our European partners with a view to defining our own national exit strategy. In the meantime, the health situation has changed positively in many countries of the European Union. The Member States and the Commission are removing certain measures taken at the beginning of the crisis. The Commission published a series of guidelines on 13 May for the resumption of transport and tourism in the European Union in the coming months. Similar initiatives in other areas are expected in the near future. I am convinced that a European approach is necessary for a safe and as well-coordinated exit from the crisis as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u20	Minister, I agree with you on the need for a European approach. On the other hand, I am still hungry, since I do not know what Belgium's position is and what positions you have taken in the Council with regard to our own health prospects, intra-European traffic and socio-economic aspects. I'm sorry, but if you have any additional information, you can always send it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u21	Madam President, Minister, on Wednesday 29 April 2020, the new European Commissioner for Justice, Didier Reynders, announced that he would launch a legislative initiative at European level on the obligations of European Union companies with regard to human rights and environmental due diligence at the beginning of 2021. Of course, I can only support and encourage this initiative, which is still lacking at international level. A United Nations treaty is currently being negotiated on this subject, but is still far from being adopted. Even at the domestic level, we still do not have legislation on the duty of vigilance, as in France, Germany or the United Kingdom. Minister, will Belgium support this European initiative? Will Belgium advocate a directive or a European regulation on this matter, in order to harmonise legislation among the Member States? Does Belgium, in parallel, prepare a law on the duty of vigilance, like France? Mr Reynders also suggested the possible creation of a network of national supervisory authorities coordinated at EU level. Will this OECD National Contact Point (NCP) be strengthened to ensure this role, in terms of its financial and investigative resources? Finally, will the European Union participate in the negotiations of the UN Treaty on Business and Human Rights? It's a little paradoxical. On the one hand, we know from Commissioner Reynders' statements that the Union wants to move forward on this matter at European level, but on the other hand, there is the impression that there is a real blockage in the negotiations under way in Geneva on the Business and Human Rights Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u22	Mr Cogolati, in your question, you are talking about the virtual non-existence of Belgian advances in business and human rights. I cannot share this view since, since July 2017, Belgium has had its own National Business and Human Rights Action Plan. Let me remind you that to date, only 24 countries have such an action plan, 15 of which are European Union Member States. The Belgian Action Plan includes 33 actions aimed at encouraging all actors in Belgium to respect and promote human rights both within them and in their sphere of influence. The implementation of the national action plan shall be subject to an annual evaluation and shall result in a public report. Our country also began a basic assessment process in February to map progress since the adoption of the national action plan. As part of the implementation of this action plan, the Belgian authorities have also focused on sectoral multi-stakeholder initiatives that create specific due diligence obligations. I am thinking in particular of the TruStone initiative launched by stakeholders in Flanders and the Netherlands, which aims to improve the conditions of workers and the environment at natural stone production sites, or Beyond Chocolate, an initiative between 100 partners active in the Belgian chocolate sector and the Belgian government to improve the living standards of cocoa growers and put an end to tropical deforestation. Finally, the FPS Foreign Affairs administration has just launched an initiative aimed at ensuring that Finexpo's operation, i.e. the Interministerial Advisory Committee to support the export of Belgian equipment and related services, is in line with the guiding principles of the United Nations and the OECD and the International Labour Organization's tripartite declaration of principle on multinational enterprises and social policy. The national contact point plays an important role in promoting the OECD Guidelines. It has just been strengthened in its capacity with the secondment of one person to the secretariat. As regards the potential supervisory authority at national level, this remains to be determined, as well as the financial means of investigation. With regard to the work within the United Nations on a legally binding international instrument, the European Commission has so far not taken a decision on the request for a negotiating mandate for which Belgium has been advocating for some time. Belgium has already expressed its support for greater coherence in the area of the duty of vigilance at European level. We therefore look forward to the initiatives announced by Commissioner Reynders for the year 2021. For Belgium, it is important that the European initiative should be part of the existing multilateral framework and take account of the capacities of SMEs. As far as domestic legislation is concerned, Belgium is watching closely the development of domestic legislation at European level. Finally, you asked me a question about the human rights panel that should be covered. I would remind you that the Belgian National Action Plan reflects the principle of universal, indivisible and interdependent human rights. They are universal, since each person has the same rights, regardless of where he or she lives, regardless of sex, race, religious, cultural or ethnic origin. These rights are also indivisible and interdependent, as all political, civil, socio-cultural and economic rights are equally important. None can be fully exercised without the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u23	It is also a formidable initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u24	Minister, I would also like to point out that Commissioner Reynders' initiative is great. And so is your response, since you are encouraging the European Union to move towards a multilateral initiative in favour of a human rights and business framework. It's really a good thing. I also took it from your reply that you wanted the European Commission to receive a negotiating mandate for the UN Treaty. I see this as a positive signal. Indeed, our national action plan still has no binding value. It is therefore reasonable to say that we can do better by adopting such a binding framework aimed at imposing respect for human rights in all supply chains of Belgian and European companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u25	Minister, there was the controversial ruling of the German Constitutional Court. The European Commission has reacted very toxicly to this. It is said that the review of the German constitution will not apply. Minister, does the Belgian Government support this response from the Commission? Shouldn't we show some restraint? What is your view on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u26	Mr Minister, the German Constitutional Court has recently handed down a judgment which could cause a major upheaval for the future of the European Union. In that judgment, the Court held that it was not bound by another decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the legality of the public sector purchasing program (PSPP). In doing so, it expresses a frank opposition to two fundamental principles of European integration, namely the primacy of Union law and the monopoly of the interpretation of the Treaties by the Court of Justice of the Union. Beyond these legal issues, the Court gave the ECB three months to justify the proportionality of the PPSC. If the ECB fails to respond within that period or if its explanations do not convince the judges, the German Central Bank (BundesBank) should cease to participate in this buy-back programme and would even be obliged to divest the previously acquired bonds. This would cause a serious problem in Europe. Moreover, although the decision does not concern the emergency programme for the VOCID-19 pandemic, it would probably be difficult for the BundesBank to participate after potentially withdrawing from the PSPP. Consequently, this judgment is causing trouble on the monetary policy of the euro area as well as on the PSPP. Minister, has this issue been dealt with at a Council meeting? If so, can you indicate the content of the discussions? If not, will it be dealt with at a subsequent meeting? Have you had any contacts with the European authorities or with Germany on this subject? What position does our country stand in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, we take note of the judgment of the German Constitutional Court concerning the public sector procurement programme of the European Central Bank. The European Central Bank is an institution of the European Union and its independence is the basis for monetary policy development in the euro area. As far as European Union law is concerned, it takes precedence over national law of another common legal order. Only the Court of Justice has the power to decide that an act of an institution of the European Union is contrary to European Union law. We therefore welcome the reactions of the European Court of Justice and the European Commission to the judgment. In its statement, the Court of Justice rightly pointed out that that jurisdiction of the Court of Justice should ensure uniform application of Union law and that differences of understanding between courts of the Member States on the validity of Union acts may jeopardise the unity of the Union legal order. For the rest, I note that both the German authorities, the European Central Bank and the services of the European Commission are still fully analysing this judgment of the German Constitutional Court. It seems to me that it is too early to comment on its specific elements. It's very difficult for a lawyer, like me, not to make statements, but I don't do one. As regards the Council's follow-up to this decision, this point has not been discussed since the date of this decision, that is, on 5 May. We are in close contact with the European institutions on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u28	Minister, my Internet connection was very bad, so I did not hear the answer at all. The rest of the meeting went perfectly for me, but just when it was intended for me, I heard an answer in pieces and pieces. Now I'm back online and everything goes perfectly again. The devil is involved. It is therefore difficult to reply. I will read the answer in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u29	Mrs. Bury, if you report your e-mail details, I will send you the answer immediately, limiting your frustrations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u30	Mr. Secretary, that's fantastic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u31	The answer's coming.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for the conduct of the committee meeting without frustration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u33	Minister, thank you. Today, I'm not very lucky, as I don't get full answers. Of course, I understand that it is difficult for you to position yourself, when the Union itself is busy thinking. In any case, this issue, more than essential, will have an impact on our country. That's why you need to keep an eye on it and try everything you can to find a solution that satisfies all parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u34	Madam President, Minister, when the VOCID-19 pandemic hit Europe, crucial negotiations were under way on future relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union. These negotiations include several parts, including a possible free trade agreement which would apply between the two parties, fisheries rules, competition rules and police and judicial cooperation – with 31 December next as the deadline, i.e. the end of the so-called transitional period. These themes are as essential for the European Union in general as for our country in particular. However, it must be noted that positions do not seem to be approaching. On the British side, the aim is to ensure as much freedom as possible from European standards, while maintaining wide access to the single market. On the European side, Michel Barnier had very little progress, whether in terms of fair competition, police and judicial cooperation or fisheries. As proof that these discussions are not going well, Mr Barnier makes a free trade agreement conditional on the existence of a fisheries agreement by the end of June – so in a very short time. The United Kingdom recently invited the European Union to review its positions, openly criticising, in a letter from British negotiator David Frost to Mr Barnier, the proposals currently on the table. In short, the perspective of a no deal is still relevant, especially since both sides must, at the same time, deal with the pandemic – which is not a small matter. In this context, Minister, my questions are as follows. Do you have more information about these negotiations? In addition to the disagreements mentioned in the press, were there any points that could be the subject of consensus? If the blockage persists, Boris Johnson would not have intended to accept the extension of the transitional period and negotiations. This scenario would therefore mean a no deal, with all the consequences that this implies. Has the European Commission prepared itself for this eventuality? What about our country's level of preparedness? Finally, do you have more information on the impact that a no deal would have on our country, particularly in the context of a health crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u35	Mr Bayet, the minutes of the European Commission mandated as negotiator for the European Union by the Council to the Member States confirm your outline of negotiations. At this stage, they have made little progress. Despite the fact that there is convergence on the technical aspects of the various specific subjects, the approaches of both sides diverge significantly on the fundamental purpose to which a new relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom should conform. To date, the British Government and its representatives have repeatedly indicated that the United Kingdom does not want an extension of the transitional period provided for in the withdrawal treaty which entered into force on 1 February last and which ends at midnight on 31 December 2020. In principle, this does not in itself and necessarily mean a no deal before this deadline, but it certainly increases the risk of success. Indeed, 31 December would be the deadline for negotiating and concluding an agreement, when positions diverge considerably and a multitude of complex issues should be resolved within the framework of such an agreement. After 1 July, a decision to extend the transitional period would require an amendment to the withdrawal treaty. In 2019, the Commission prepared a no deal scenario as it was not sure that a withdrawal agreement would have been concluded before the date of withdrawal resulting from the application of Article 50 of the European Treaty, a date which has been postponed several times before being set at 1 February 2020. The same applies to Member States, including Belgium. Preparations made in this perspective will have to be repeated in order to adapt them where necessary. The studies carried out on the economic impact on Belgium of a Brexit without a follow-up treaty between the European Union and the United Kingdom, which would mitigate its consequences, were carried out before the health crisis caused by VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u36	Minister, as a result of a sound problem, I did not understand all of your answers. I trust you to look after the interests of Belgium. I will read your answer carefully in the full report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u37	I suppose the answer can also be sent by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u38	Madam President, Minister, I would like to return to my first question on the new accession strategy. You have not said whether you think that it could also be applied to Turkey, in other words that the cessation of negotiations is one of the new options. It would be good if you could answer that. Moreover, with regard to the German Constitutional Court and its rulings, I have just been informed that the ECB is apparently preparing a scenario to proceed without the Bundesbank. So to be continued. With regard to the Franco-German proposal on the European Relance Plan, the European Commission will now put forward its proposals on Wednesday on the Multiannual Financial Framework (MFF), of which the Recovery Fund will be part. It goes without saying that the scale and severity of the corona crisis require a substantial effort, but it must not lose sight of things that do not cost money immediately and which can also contribute to the recovery, such as deepening the internal market with a digital, transport, energy and capital market union. Last Monday Chancellor Merkel and President Macron presented their European relaunch plan, which is based on four pillars. A European recovery fund of EUR 500 million is one of them. The text suggests that the European Recovery Fund should be made up of grants. Moreover, it is based on a form of European debt mutualisation. You mentioned this French-German proposal as interesting. I wonder what you mean by interesting, but that's what I hear. Last weekend there was also a proposal from the so-called economical four, namely the Netherlands, Austria, Denmark and Sweden. They do not charge an amount and reject the system of donations. They advocate a system consisting purely of loans, with associated conditions for reform. The money should also be concentrated on issues such as research and development, making health care more resilient and greening. They also reject any form of joint debt. What position will Belgium defend in the budgetary negotiations? Will Belgium rather support the Franco-German proposal or join the proposals of the Netherlands and co? In other words, will Belgium argue that there can be no solidarity without responsibility? Will Belgium agree to a form of debt mutualisation or not? Finally, in relation to the budget in general, do you agree that there should be a budget shift with a strategic commitment to resources that meet the challenges of the future and sectors that create great European added value? I am thinking of the internal market, innovation, research and safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u39	Mrs Van Bossuyt, I dream that one day you will be Minister and I will be a Member of Parliament. Then I could ask you out of the blue what you now think of Turkish accession, unless Turkey had already joined by then. You'd give me an answer on the spot. That would be liberating for Belgian politics, but at the same time it depends on how well you know the opinion of your government at that time and all the possible implications associated with it. So I am grateful to you for your insistence. I would like to give my personal opinion on this off the record, but on the record I prefer to keep it careful. For the Belgian Government, it is important that the recovery plan is based on a need analysis to determine the size of the recovery fund and the instruments that will form part of it. Account must also be taken of the different situations in the Member States. In Belgium, a large part of the economy is based on SMEs and, above all, on small enterprises. The recovery plan should give Member States sufficient flexibility to respond to this. With regard to the financing of the relay plan, we remain cautious, as we do not yet have a clear view of the budgetary implications. Tomorrow the Commission will publish its proposals. Loans will be an important contribution to the recovery plan, but there is also openness in Belgium to talk about subsidies. This morning I took part in the European General Affairs Council. You can imagine that not all Member States agreed on exactly what should be the key between loans and subsidies. That will be a difficult discussion in the next few weeks. The Franco-German proposal is ambitious and uses the European scale to get us out of the severe crisis. In order to finance the fund, both countries want the Commission, with guarantees from the Member States, to borrow money directly on the markets. It is therefore the European level that bears the debt and not the Member States. At the same time, the plan is not blind to the individual responsibility of the Member States. Berlin and Paris explicitly say that sound economic policies and ambitious reforms form the basis of the plan. Belgium too wants to maintain a balance between responsibility and solidarity. It is important that all Member States are united in order to activate the relay instrument as soon as possible. In this way, the damage to the economy can be reduced and the functioning of the internal market is safeguarded, which is crucial for the start-up of our own Belgian economy. Together with the Relance Fund, an agreement will also have to be reached on the multiannual financial framework. Belgium wants to continue the MFF negotiations on the basis of the existing proposals, albeit with adjustments due to the COVID-19 crisis, but making adjustments to the MFF does not mean that our previous positions are no longer on the agenda. On the contrary, innovation, cohesion and agricultural policy and maintaining customs costs at 20% remain crucial. The Green Deal Agenda and the digital cover are also more important than ever. In addition, account should be taken of the economic impact of the Brexit, where Belgium is one of the most affected countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-05-26-55-commissie-ic187x.u40	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and apologies for my insistence. I understand you need to speak on behalf of the government, but I could try. I found it particularly remarkable that you mentioned that Serbia should already be covered by this new strategy, but Turkey has been a candidate country since 1999, so I think that this needs to be clarified. Perhaps it is a good time to agree with the government on this. In relation to my specific question, you say that it is difficult to understand the concrete consequences, for example loans versus subsidies, or their relationship. In the opinion of our group, the relay plan may consist mainly of loans, or even exclusive loans, precisely because of the heavy pressure it will put on the budgets. In any case, Belgium will have to take a position, because at the next European summit, on 18 and 19 June, the new MFF will be discussed and the European Commission's proposals will be discussed. I hear you say about the adjustments to the MFF that does not change the general Belgian position in globo. Then I regret that you mention cohesion and agricultural policy as two sectors where Belgium believes the same amount of money should go. The value added of agricultural policy to European GDP is not in proportion to the 40% of the European budget allocated to agriculture. Moreover, there are simulations that the Commission has made that if less European money were spent on agricultural policy, and the Member States themselves put money into it, our farmers would not get less European money. I think that slope should definitely be looked at. We have already sent that message to the Prime Minister. In your place, I would certainly review the simulations made by the European Commission in the previous legislature. Then, through budget shifts, more money can go to research and development, to security, and to other things that citizens expect Europe to commit to. I would like to mention one more element concerning the recovery fund. It would be good to consider the extent to which this recovery fund can be used to mitigate the negative effects of a possible no-dealbrexit. If we were to get into that scenario, the consequences of this would be incalculable, certainly (...)
