ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u1	Minister, the right to a fair trial is also a foundation of the rule of law during this corona crisis. In Royal Decree No. 3 of 9 April 2020, the government announced a number of measures concerning sentenced persons to a custodial sentence appearing before the criminal execution court. They are only represented by a counselor. In addition, on 27 April, you stated in this committee that Royal Decree No. 3 does not contain provisions on the appearance of suspects or accused persons before the courts of the substance or the investigating courts, but they may decide, in cases of force majeure, that the persons arrested cannot appear in court. It is important to stress that suspects should also be able to attend personally. The situation of force majeure should be kept to a minimum. Moreover, it is not clear how long force majeure can be invoked, all the more so because Royal Decree No. 3 will not be renewed, which seems to indicate that the situation should soon return to normal for the criminal courts and investigating courts. Hence the following questions. First, on 27 April, you stated that force majeure could justify that hearings took place without the presence of the defendant. In the meantime, the situation has changed. Can we still speak today of a situation of force majeure? Is this practice justified? If so, on what basis? If no, how do you guarantee that defendants will be able to attend their hearing effectively? Secondly, the Royal Decree No. 3 of 9 April 2020 would not be renewed. Prisoners who are on parole will therefore have to return to prison in mid-June. In any case, there will be a renewed inflow and outflow. In such circumstances, could force majeure be invoked to refuse appearances before the criminal courts or the investigating courts? Why is that, or why not? I also have a question concerning the forensic psychiatric centers, which seem to have slipped a bit between the meshes of the net. Visits to prisons have been possible since 25 May, taking into account a number of security measures, but people who are interned in a Forensic Psychiatric Centre cannot yet receive a visit. According to the websites of the FPCs of Antwerp and Ghent, a visit was not possible until 30 May. That is later than the date of 25 May which applied to prisoners. Recent information is not available, but apparently a visit would still not be possible? In any case, that was the case at the time my question was tabled. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, prison visits have been possible since 25 May. Why is a distinction made between the FPCs and the prisons? On what basis is the date of 30 May used? Secondly, is visiting the Forensic Psychiatric Centres legally allowed today? If so, on what basis? Is the decision not to allow a visit for the time being a decision of the FPCs themselves? What's your vision on that? If no, why not? By when do you want to allow visitors in the FPCs again? For my question No. 55006850C I refer to the text tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u2	Madam Chair, Minister, for my first question, I refer to my written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u3	My second question concerns the extension of the measures taken during the period VOCID. Mr Minister, you may recall that a few weeks ago you stated in an interview published in La Libre Belgique that, although the royal decrees of special powers are limited in time, certain measures such as the holding of hearings by videoconference could be extended thereafter. As a result of this interview, I asked you that an evaluation should probably be carried out before considering any extension. At the time, you had abounded in my sense. But since then, a proposal for a law aimed precisely at prolonging this measure to extend it beyond the health crisis has been tabled by fellow Members. Verherstraeten et Slegers. In addition to the fact that the measure has not been evaluated, I would like to point out that the first attempt on video conferencing dates back to 2016, that it was because of you and that it was annulled following the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 21 June 2018. Minister, given the exchange we had a few weeks ago on the issue of evaluation, how do you welcome this legislative initiative? Do you confirm your first response that measures should not be extended without prior assessment? Finally, do you not consider that the arguments leading to the annulment by the Constitutional Court of your 2016 law remain valid and can therefore be accepted again?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u4	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, what KB No. The majority of its provisions will run until 17 June 2020. The KB shall not be renewed. Following the advice of the College of Hoven and Courts, the College of Attorneys General, the orders of lawyers and some experts, no specific provisions were included regarding the appearances of suspects or accused persons before criminal courts or investigating courts. The starting point was and is indeed the finding that, as a result of the corona measures taken, there is a situation of force majeure, which makes it legally possible for detained persons not to appear in person at the hearing. This principle is supported by the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, as I mentioned earlier in your committee. The courts and courts have held their sessions according to these standards and in the prison facilities the technical means have been installed to ensure maximum participation of the detainees in the debates. I must add that it is the President-in-Office of the Chamber in question, who has the final say. The defendant could or could indeed order the defendant to appear in person. The Minister of Justice or any other body of the executive does not intervene. It is in this respect that shipments have been and are being carried out. In other words, if the judicial authorities expressly requested the removal or transfer of detainees, the penitentiary administration and the SAB have always acted accordingly. It is also clear that the aforementioned services of the EPI and of the SAB will adapt to the ever-increasing standardisation of the functioning of the judicial system, which I support. Mr Van Hecke, you also asked a question about the visits in the Forensic Psychiatric Centres. The Minister of Justice is not competent for the internal legal status of interns residing in Forensic Psychiatric Centres or other psychiatric hospitals or healthcare institutions. The basic law of 12 June 2005 applies only to prisoners who are in prison and where, as you know, the visit has been possible since 25 May. So, in consultation with the penitentiary administration, I can arrange the visit in the penitentiary institutions, but not in the FPCs, for example. The latter are responsible for the aspect of the conditions of care, guidance and society, of which the visit scheme is an integral part, under the supervision of the health inspection. A recent consultation of the website shows that the visit in the FPCs of Antwerp and Ghent has been restarted since last weekend. Mr Van Hecke, you also asked a question about the simulated reality bets. This form of betting is a new phenomenon and is based on rapid technological evolution, in particular artificial intelligence. Such new phenomena require a thorough analysis and investigation by the Gaming Commission. This investigation has not yet been completed. Before taking a stand, I await the analysis of the Gaming Commission. If these games go beyond the limits of the current legal framework, then a decision must be taken. Mrs Khattabi, the distribution of oral masks is in no way discriminatory. The only intention is to prevent the spread of VOCID-19. All detainees have a mask and are obliged to wear it under well-defined circumstances. Only fabric oral masks may have different colours depending on the fabric available at the time of production. This variety is simply due to the lack of uniform tissue in stock. Inmates in medical isolation because of symptoms that may indicate infection with VOCID-19 wear a surgical oral mask – not tissue – in all prisons across the country. Those who are in preventive isolation, because they have just entered prison, are quarantined for fourteen days and wear a cloth mask of another colour. The masks remain in the sections, where they are distributed, and are kept in a separate washing circuit to avoid any risk of contamination. The prison thus applies national instructions. The finding made by the IPO therefore does not relate to local practice. Ms. Khattabi, with respect to your question about the extension of the VOCID measures, I must tell you that there may be some confusion about the use of video conferencing and the applications that are described or proposed. Bill No. 1295, to which you refer, introduces a new system of videoconferencing in criminal matters. This is certainly not an extension of temporary measures taken by a Royal Order of Special Powers VOCID. It follows the annulment by the Constitutional Court of the introduction of such a legal regime in 2016. To every honourable lord: it was on the proposal of the chairman of this committee – Mrs Van Vaerenbergh – that the legislation on videoconferencing in criminal matters came into being in 2016. Since an application for annulment of the law was submitted promptly, it was never put into practice in order to avoid procedural defects. I am in favour of adopting this text as soon as possible, because it will still take a long time – perhaps a constitutional review and a tendering procedure – before it can enter into force. It is therefore not yet possible to assess this measure since it has never been applied. Finally, I would like to refer to my answers to recent questions about the use of videoconferencing in hearings before the Chamber of Counsel or the Indictments Chamber. It is important to understand that these are not video-conferencing hearings, but rather an opportunity for a lawyer, whose client is not present at the hearing but is in prison, to consult his client via video-conferencing during the hearing. He may also choose to make this contact public in order to allow the court to also be in contact with the suspect in this way. These are voluntary choices of the lawyer and his client. With regard to the use of videoconferencing in civil affairs, we have long experience in this area and this practice has been assessed as positive in the previous legislature. It is likely that the VOCID-19 pandemic will promote the use of the planned facilities. Special Powers Order No. 2 provided, on a temporary basis, for the possibility for the judge to decide, in addition to a written procedure, to hold a debate with the parties by videoconference. Bill No. 1295 also provides for this possibility with this important nuance that it is not a measure imposed by the judge but applied at the request of the parties. Given the voluntary nature of the measure, it seems to me that it is a modernisation that justice should not be denied especially in view of the current context.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u5	Minister, Mr Crombez has now arrived, who also had a question in this debate. Mr Crombez, are you going to make these statements or refer to your written record? So we can still hear the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u6	Madam President, you cannot imagine how much I would like to ask this question. Minister, I will be very brief. My question concerns the protection of Belgian assets. A COOVID measure has been taken, which is valid until the end of this month, with regard to the organisation of meetings within companies, which is Royal Decree No. 4. It certainly seems worthwhile to me to consider adapting this royal decision, because the corona measures have been adapted and there is much more possible, including in the area of the protection of the small shareholder. Would an anti-abuse clause not be appropriate if this royal decision were to continue, in order to protect Belgian assets and small minority shareholders? Madam President, I would like to thank you for your indulgence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u7	Madam President, Mr Crombez, I will give you the same answer as I gave you with love last week, as always. As a general consideration, I would like to inform you that any legislation can be used wrongly and even abused. We must never, in my view, deduce from a specific case that the legal text itself allows abuse, let alone promotes it. The FSMA is an independent institution and I am not empowered to express my opinion on how it exercises its powers, but I am confident that it will use its powers appropriately and refer to its press releases of 29 May 2020 and 2 June 2020 in this particular case. Moreover, in the event of abuse, shareholders may apply to the chairman of the company court, which is the subject of interim proceedings, requesting that the alleged unlawful application of the law be prevented by requesting the suspension of the meeting. Even if the court hearing the application for interim relief considers that there is no reason to do so in this case, a substantive action may be brought before the company court until six months later. Misuse of law is, in general terms, expressly mentioned as grounds for nullity, and thus also as grounds for suspension of a decision of the General Assembly. Article 2:42, second, of the Code of Companies. If necessary, I can inform you that, in a judgment of Monday 1 June last, the Council of State brought an action for the suspension of Royal Decree No. 4 rejected in the absence of an urgent need. In essence, Chapter 2 of the Royal Decree No. 4 only one ban and that is holding a meeting that is not COVID-19-safe. All other options may or may not enlighten the company. In my opinion, therefore, there is no problem with the Royal Decree No. 4 in itself. The report to the King also expressly states that the choice made in concrete terms must take account of the importance of all those concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u8	Thank you very much for the answers, Minister. As regards the appearance before the criminal courts or the investigating courts, the Royal Decree will not be renewed after 17 June. That's one thing. You say that whether or not to appear depends on the decision of the President of the Court or of the Board Chamber. So that depends on one and the same person. I have received examples of lawyers who received an e-mail from the Registry, which simply says: "In view of the measures taken by the National Security Council, your client cannot appear in person." Something like that. Not an assessment case on a case-by-case basis, but just a general measure. After 17 June, Minister, there is actually no reason to invoke force majeure. It is up to the President to decide for himself, but if we are all allowed to sit on a terrace and go to a restaurant, subject to the rules of distance, if almost all children are allowed to go back to school and if the temporarily released prisoners come back and there is more room for visit in prisons, how can we talk about a reason of force majeure which prevents anyone from being physically present in the treatment of especially criminal matters? So that is really not sustainable. There are several treatments at the moment. It happens in one court and it doesn't happen in the other. In the same court, one of the detained persons appears in one room and not in another. I have one more example: there is a court where one may not appear before the court but may physically examine his criminal record at the Registry. Try explaining that to judges and lawyers who face it on a daily basis. Perhaps the National Security Council should give a hint that force majeure can no longer be invoked at the moment. It seems to me that the problem with the FPCs has been solved by now. I know that there is always a discussion about jurisdiction and that justice is not entirely competent, but if the National Security Council can make decisions about visiting residential care centres and decide when children can go back to school, then I find it bizarre that the National Security Council would not be able to say anything about the FPCs. I suspect this slipped between the meshes of the net. It may be advisable to include the visit to FPCs in the general exercise, as in other settings, in the event of a second strike. Finally, Minister, in relation to the simulation reality bets, we all know that this sector is very creative, is constantly looking for new games and gambling products, looking at the limits of legality and often going over them. You announce an analysis of the Game Commission. That is really necessary. I really hope that analysis will be made soon. If it turns out that this is indeed in breach of the legislation, then action must also be taken immediately and decisively.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I have, of course, also put a question to the Minister for Finance. That goes without saying. An additional element is that we have changed the legislation to corona times, because the situation has changed. In any case, I will question him about the fact that lawyers who appear in such files are also involved in the supervision of the Financial Services and Markets Authority, the FSMA itself. In Royal Decree No. It is true that the rules in the context of the corona pandemic must not be violated. This gives the opportunity to organise meetings in a different way than in normal times. A normal organisation should serve to protect all shareholders and Belgian assets. But here a more precarious situation is created. Of course, there is a general right to bring proceedings against such situations. However, it is also important in such volatile economic times that as few risks as possible are taken with the defence and control of Belgian assets and the interests of minority shareholders. In your reply, you yourself point out that anti-abuse provisions can be very useful in this respect, unlike long processes, where it is often difficult to prove that one's interests have been harmed. You referred to one specific case, most of which had been in the media, involving potentially EUR 1 billion. It is not about small issues, such as a meeting of a syndician or a non-profit association, which I do not want to deny the importance of the regulation for the latter. In my view, it is even better for the remaining weeks to ensure safety from the point of view of health and economic importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u10	Madam President, Minister, I understand your answer that the information that in Saint-Gilles, the colour of the mask varies according to the inmate's state of health is false because you tell me that what is happening at Saint-Gilles prison meets the protocol that has been introduced, in general, in all prisons. I'll take note of that. I am therefore surprised by the communication from the Belgian section of the International Prison Observatory. I'll check it out. But it is true that hell is paved with good intentions and, sometimes, these good intentions can undermine other principles. I take note of your answer. I am delighted if this information is not confirmed. As far as the second question is concerned, unless I am mistaken, it seems to me that in the explanatory memorandum the measure is presented as an extension of the measures taken under the special powers. That was the way to vote on the urgency in plenary, since it was presented as one of the VOCID measures. I will read it again and, if necessary, I will take it upon myself to acknowledge my mistake. On the fact that you support the proposal, we know that the logic at work in recent years in the public service is that of rationalisation and modernisation. And, under the guise of this rationalization and modernization, it is clear that, on all levels of public services, savings are made, sometimes at the expense of fundamental principles, including the human aspect of justice. One of the fears with regard to the bill is precisely that our justice system will be dehumanized on the pretext that travel costs a lot. In fact, I read an article from your site that said that the inmate's travel is expensive and time-consuming and that, as a result, video conferencing met that requirement. I think we need to be careful. Modernisation is not an end in itself. It must remain at the service of human justice. That is what I shall repeat on the occasion of the proceedings, when they come back to committee. Minister, thank you for the answers you have given me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u11	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Boukili's 55006428C was converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 55006722C by Mr Boukili was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u12	Mrs van Peel, the European directive to which you refer had to be transposed by the Member States by 18 December 2013 at the latest. Before that date, Belgium notified all laws, regulations and administrative provisions, both for the federal and sub-State departments. In 2015, a reasoned opinion from the European Commission on a number of points of the Directive followed and the Act of 31 May 2016 was adopted to further implement the European obligations in the areas of, inter alia, sexual exploitation of children, child pornography and trafficking in human beings. Two royal decrees were issued in implementation. The infringement procedure was closed by the Commission in December 2016. As you point out, at the end of 2019, the FPS Justice received a communication from the Commission on an infringement procedure for a number of other points of the Directive. An EU Pilot was also launched to provide additional explanations on case law, legal doctrine and practice for a number of points of the Directive. Following this, the departments concerned, both federal and sub-state, were given explanations and explanations to the European Commission within the time limit set and in a very detailed manner. At present, the Commission is awaiting an analysis of this information. So far we have not received an answer. It will then be possible to examine, where appropriate, the points where the European Commission would consider it necessary to amend the legislation and, where appropriate, to take legislative or policy initiatives. We are always working constructively with the European Commission and, as in the case of the 2015 infringement procedure, we are ready to engage in a constructive dialogue with the European Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u13	Mr Minister, your outline of the actual course is, of course, correct, but perhaps you could make a more specific comment on the points that are still under discussion. Is it about technical details, legal spins or rather about the substance of the case? You can't say that now? That's actually what I wanted to know. So I will have to come back to this again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u14	I think there's some confusion. There are currently two possibilities. Either the final texts of judgments, for example, have been drawn up on paper, and it seems difficult to change them by amending the computer program, or the judgments are digitally native and therefore original in digital form. They are also digitally signed with a qualified signature, which makes it impossible to change afterwards. Of course, design texts can always be modified. That is why they are also draft texts. By the way, anyone who updates finally signed texts afterwards could commit a crime. We are indeed working on the digital signature of judgments, on the one hand, and the digital signature of copies for duly signed copies, on the other. If the verdicts are digitally signed, there is obviously no need to scan them, because they are already digital. Our digital copy signing projects are based not on a scanned document, but on the original digital design text. The method of printing, drawing and re-scanning a draft text has never been part of the projects of the ICT staff services. I note that the prejudices about the MACH programme are persistent. I recently received a letter from the President of the Public Prosecutor's College asking for the old PAGE programme to be replaced by MACH as soon as possible. I read in the reports of the Supreme Court of Justice that those who use the programme in full are satisfied with the programme, but those who know it only briefly say it is not good. Unknown is unloved. It indicates that there is still a major lack of training. The IGO is also working on this. I didn't say it couldn't be better. For this reason, MACH is also constantly expanding, including the electronic signature and digital transmission of the verdicts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u15	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Of course there are believers and nonbelievers, but a year ago we were now in campaign mode. I remember well that there were a lot of debates then, sometimes very specialized political debates on justice, often in front of a public of magistrates, prosecutors, people of the seat and clerks. There were often very detailed examples of things that really don't work. Perhaps we are only getting comments for the things that are not going well and not for the things that are going well, but there are problems. I don't think we should minimize it. This is information I've been getting from people who work with MACH every day. I have never worked with it, but apparently one can enter a text and there is a box where one has to tick definitely or not. The final check can apparently be easily ticked off and one can make adjustments to a text, not only to a judgment, but also to a record of the hearing of the parties or of the conduct of a hearing. That was communicated to me by people working with it on a daily basis. That problem is being raised, but you say that there will be confusion and deny that such a thing is possible. This is not in line with what is established in practice. I would therefore ask you to take a good look at this and to put your ear to the magistrates on the ground, to the magistrates' associations, to find out what their experiences are and whether this particular problem effectively gives rise to possible manipulation. I think this is essential. We are all in favour of more computerization, but computerisation must be safe. Where a judgment has been given or a report has been drawn up, amendments may not be made to it. I am not saying that there are many people out there who want to amend texts, but the technical possibility of making changes must be completely excluded. I believe that the services should be able to guarantee that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u16	Minister, in 2008, the treasure hall of Tournai Cathedral was attacked with an armed hand. As a result of this attack, the Byzantine cross, two episcopal rings and two other crosses were stolen, as well as eight 17th-century chalices. It is true that this cross has an important pecuniary value but given its history, its value is above all highly symbolic. This case was managed at the police level by the then Tournai Judicial Police and the Art Unit of the Central Service Organized flights and theft of works of art, which provided support, because of the existence of links with foreigners, in this case the Netherlands. As part of their mission to coordinate information and provide support, they gave advice to the Prosecutor's Office in Tournai and sent a request to Interpol for the Byzantine cross to be included in the list of the most sought-after works of art. The latest information received in this regard dates back to the end of 2015. Can you tell me where we are on this file right now?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u17	Ms.Dedonder, I have submitted your questions to the College of Attorneys General and the Attorney General of Mons has given me the following answers: "The investigation into the alleged theft committed in 2008 is still ongoing. The works concerned were immediately reported to the international community and are still being reported. The recovery of such objects can take several years, as was the case, for example, of the reliquary-cylinder stolen in 1980 in the church of Saint-Pierre de Lessines and only found by the federal police in 2009. Such a happy outcome is therefore always to be hoped for in this case."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased that the investigation is still under way. If we could have the same way out of Lessines, it would be a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u19	Questions Nos 5500006871C and 5500006873C by Mrs Soors are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u20	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, last week I informed you in committee that four suspects were arraigned by the Brussels District Court and that the judge placed three of them under arrest and released one of them under conditions. I think you mean that last person in your question as the suspect whose arrest was so difficult. I would also like to inform you that the defendant was still subject to an enforceable sentence of 12 months. I can inform you that he is currently facing that conviction in prison. So he's not at large anymore. Your questions were re-checked at the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u21	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, divorce as well as the decision on the residence scheme is a complex issue that can hit both parents and children hard. A child must never get into the situation that it is the pawn to be deployed in a divorce. Parental withdrawal must never be the answer to the conflict. The best interests of the child should be at all times central. As I have already indicated in an earlier reply to written and oral questions on this subject, the Working Group on the Functioning of the Family Courts is examining the complex issue of parental suspension and the evenly distributed residence arrangements. These discussions have shown that the law of 18 July 2006 favours the evenly distributed housing of the child whose parents are divorced and regulates the forced implementation of the child's housing. A supported proposal for legislative amendment as well as a general approach to parental suspension has so far not been adopted and should be part of a general approach to the legal assessment of parental authority and the evenly distributed residence regime. It is desirable to address parental deprivation at different levels. For example, parents, social assistants, magistrates and so on should be made aware of the existence of the problem. This awareness has been increased over the past year. For example, in May 2019, the IGO organised a training course in relation to parental deprivation. The subject was also on the agenda of a Midday of law organised by the FPS Justice. This day of study was unfortunately postponed to a later date due to the corona crisis. With regard to your question on the Supreme Court of Justice, I can inform you that the Supreme Court may at any time decide of its own motion to conduct a special investigation to detect structural or personal dysfunctions and to formulate recommendations, but both the legislator and the Supreme Court have always ensured that such an investigation would not interfere in the substantive handling of files, as explicitly stated in the recent extension of the investigative powers by the law of 23 March 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-10-55-commissie-ic204x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Pivin's 5500006818C was postponed.
