ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u1	We don't have much time today. If I understand correctly, both ministers must leave at 5 p.m. That means we have two and a half hours. There are 62 questions for Mrs De Block and 29 for Mr De Backer. I propose that we use the usual formula, but of course there will be no second round. There are, of course, Members' replies after the ministers' replies. The usual formula means 8 minutes speaking time for the political groups with three members of the committee, 5 minutes for the political groups with two members of the committee and 3 minutes for the political groups represented by only one member of the committee. Try to be efficient and not repeat yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u2	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the COOVID tracking apps. Apple and Google have recently updated their platforms so that anyone with an Apple or Google device can now use the tracking system. Normally it is very important for large-scale processing of personal data that a DPIA, data protection impact assessment, be submitted to the Data Protection Authority. Did Apple and Google do that? Has the GBA taken note of this? Do these companies already carry out contact tracing today, if they have activated it on their smartphone? Is there any cooperation between Sciensano and these technology companies? I ask the question because my iPhone displays the name of Sciensano in Apple's software. Do these companies have access to Sciensano's 5 database? That's an important question, isn't it? Was a DPIA submitted for the Belgian coronatracing app and what is the result of that? Is that available to the public? How much has the federal government already paid for the Belgian tracking app, including all consulting costs? And are there any costs incurred by the Länder?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u3	Mr President, Minister, Minister, in the first wave there were many hospitalisations due to COOVID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u4	I also have a few more questions. The first question concerns the testing that is now taking place at Zaventem airport. There seem to be a lot of problems with the Passenger Locator Form, the services behind it and the testing centre itself. Apparently, there's been some mistake. I have received a case on this. I can get it to you by e-mail so you can check it out. As far as the test for departing passengers is concerned, if it is not returned soon, it will cost us 135 euros. In Eindhoven, it costs 105 euros by the same company. How do you explain that difference? Are the same costs now reimbursed by the government? As far as communication is concerned, it appears that there are still a lot of uncertainties. There'll be another National Security Council tomorrow. Madam Minister, will you see to it that the following directives, which may be amended and which will follow from the Security Council, will be interpreted very clearly and clearly so that everyone can understand them directly? Finally, Minister, as far as testing capacity is concerned, we hear that the maximum test capacity has almost been reached, while you have always indicated that we can go up to 90 000 tests a day. So we're not halfway there today. I understand that there is mainly a staff problem, but you have certainly already taken that into account. What are your solutions to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u5	Madam Minister, Minister, for some of my questions I refer to the written version.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u6	A first question I would like to go into in more detail relates to the local source detection. An allocation has been made in an East Flemish municipality to home nurses who would help with the local source search. The price charged for a teleconsultation is 57 euros and the price for a home visit to a diagnosed COVID patient varies from 106 to 136 euros. Do you think these prices are deontologically justified? Can we do this? The home nurse also asks for additional funds for PPEs and a mileage allowance. Are those common practices? Can you give your view on that? I am also told that the EUR 300 coronabon has not yet been paid out for nurses. Do you have eyes on that? Furthermore, certain general practitioners have still not been paid for the services they have provided at the COVID triage. You told me you were working on the nomenclature. How far along are you with that? With regard to the COVID vaccine, I have another question. Are there any current problems in clinical trials or is everything going well? As far as the Belgians in Spain are concerned, there is a Facebook group asking why our citizens cannot go to their country residence or property in Spain. This could possibly be solved with the Spanish registration number. Do you see health problems today that can prevent people from going to their property in Spain? As far as quarantine is concerned, academic votes are going to suggest that it should be revised. We've already talked about the CT levels in the PCR tests. What's your vision on that? Minister De Backer, there is a new advice on the protection of physiotherapists in which it is made clear that they also need FFP2 masks. Are you going to take that advice? Are you going to take steps or have you taken steps since that advice came? I would also like to know what price our country is currently paying for FFP2 masks. Will you debate this tomorrow in the National Security Council? At present, the WHO has a positive positive test rate of 5%. In the previous measures we have always used the occupation in intensive care. What is the criterion that you are following today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u7	Thank you, Mrs Depoorter, that was nice in time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u8	Madam Minister, thanks to a study carried out in 11 medical houses in Brussels and Wallonia, which represent more than 24 000 patients - half of whom in Brussels - there has been a clear parallel between the weekly incidences of proven cases of VOCID-19 in the 11 medical houses and in the Belgian population according to Sciensano's data since the first week of July. However, it is 3.2 times higher in a medical home. The authors of this study explain this difference in large part because the patient is predominantly urban, young and precarised - each of these elements constituting a specific risk factor for acquiring VOCID. Other multidisciplinary studies have also shown that the most vulnerable people are among the most exposed to the virus. If it is clear that we will have to live with this virus for a long time, it will also be necessary to learn more. The impact of social determinants on the contraction of the disease and, by extension, the causes of co-morbidity - tobacco, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, obesity, etc. - are relatively little studied at the national level. Minister, could such a study be quickly placed on the agenda to guide the Regions in their prevention policies? Mr Minister, on Wednesday 9 September, the judge of the Liège Court of First Instance announced that the Belgian State had to execute the contract signed with the Belgian company ZenTech and therefore pay EUR 23 million, which corresponds to the 3.65 million rapid serological tests ordered by the State, which is also required to provide the list of establishments receiving these tests within five days. Since yesterday, we know that these tests can be sold freely. However, Minister, can you provide us with the list of establishments to which you are addressed? What is the purpose of this? Indeed, you thought these tests were of little use. Finally, why did AFMPS order so many tests while Sciensano did not include serological tests in its testing strategy? Thank you in advance for your precise answers, since we have been waiting for them for 20 days.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u9	Madam Secretary, I have some questions for you first. My first question concerns the long-term consequences of COOVID-19. We hear many worrying reports that even patients who have experienced a mild form of the disease and have not been hospitalized still have problems for weeks or sometimes months after the infection. I also read last week about the hospital in northern Italy that the most affected was and that all his patients or as many patients as possible are calling back to see how they are doing six months later. Do you or do Sciensano have extensive studies in the pipeline on what is currently known specifically about the long-term effects? Are there any initial findings about these long-term effects in our country at the moment? Do we have figures on patients who still suffer so much after six months? How are these symptoms and patients monitored and reported? Can we do anything with the numbers? I also assume that we can learn a great deal from what other countries are doing, hence the question of how they cooperate on this issue. Two weeks ago, we heard that a hospital in Genk can let patients with COVID-19 go home faster via a telemonitoring system. This allows doctors to follow patients much better at home. That sounded very business to me, as if patients are only in a hospital to have their data monitored and no real care and medication taken. Is this purely an economic point of departure, namely whether the return can be achieved? What's the main reason for staying in the hospital when it's just about monitoring data? Last week we had a long discussion on privacy, not in the context of this telemonitoring system but of course in the app. Are we quite sure that the patient's data will be kept securely in that telemonitoring system? Are you aware of that system in Genk? Any plans to roll it out to other hospitals? How do you feel about that as Minister of Health? I also have a question about the corona vaccine, particularly its liability. Two weeks ago, hearings were held in the European Parliament. We hear from our European colleagues that there are still several signs and that there is still confusion about liability. You explained this to us a few weeks ago. However, I still have a few further questions. We get the impression that the bar is lower for the corona vaccine than for other vaccines. Today I read in the newspaper that pharmaceutical companies really want to be honest about this, in order to regain our trust. What are the agreements that have been made with companies at the moment, in case anything goes wrong in terms of liability? I am also particularly interested in the Belgian position in these negotiations. I'm sure I don't need to remind you of the regularity of a clock with which we get open letters signed by a lot of doctors. More and more, they denounce the corona measures and feel that we are no longer realistic and pay too little attention to what the population can do to strengthen its resistance. I was wondering if the signatories of such letters would receive an answer when they reached you? Do you explain to them why these measures are being taken? Is there a counter-communication? How do you see the communication about the corona measures in the short term? I understand that you will not be able to answer that today because tomorrow a new Security Council is planned. For Minister De Backer, I also have a question about the length of time patients have to wait for the results of their tests. Last week we read that in August an average of 13% of the results came too late. Now this would be around 5 %. In absolute figures that is still a lot. Last week, 18 000 Belgians had to wait longer than 24 hours. Is it always or often the same laboratories that send their results too late? If yes, are steps taken to improve this? Depoorter also asked about it. Can we shorten the quarantine? How does that evolve?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u10	I would quickly like to address the issue of screening centres and to say how important it is for these structures to be able to incur costs with the assurance that they will be covered. Do the authorities now have the data necessary to grant adequate subsidies to these centres, in a most urgent way? I come to the difficulty of general practitioners. The previous weekend we experienced shortages of swabs and equipment in the sorting centres that had to be closed. But above all, today it is the difficulty of front-line general practitioners to monitor patients in the particular context of the pandemic, which is highlighted. How can we optimize the effectiveness of the first line, by trying to save the time that is lost in seeking correct information in the face of procedures that fluctuate as the numbers and decisions of the government change? Is a coordinating physician being considered? It would ensure the smooth running of events in the event of a major crisis like the one we are going through today. I would also like to ask a question about the relationship with occupational medicine. Is there a collaboration between occupational medicine and screening and screening centres? Today we see far too many employers (...) yet recommended. What measures do you intend to put in place to ensure consistency with the federal screening strategy? My next question concerns the differentiated screening centres in Belgium. What do you think of this idea? This would make it possible to prioritise the urgency of the tests, to distinguish between those who travel there on the return journey and those at greatest risk who have been in contact with a contaminated person. I'm going to the mobile labs at the airports. It is our responsibility that three rates should be applied for laboratories: an INAMI tariff, a rate of 67 euros, and a higher rate of 135 euros for tests with results in three hours. What is your opinion on this precedent, which I believe is dangerous and worrying also for the actors in the hospital world? It is reported that at Charleroi Airport, the mobile laboratory will be opened at the end of September. The proposals will therefore be different, such as the fares, depending on the airport from which people leave and arrive, since Charleroi will not apply this differentiated tariff. What do you think about this? As far as mental health is concerned, as we approach World Mental Health Day, what have you achieved in practice since our resolution of 29 April to enable people suffering from mental illness, as a result of the health crisis, to treat themselves more specifically? As far as saliva tests are concerned, are the results ordered by the task force known? How can we move forward with the Defence? To the attention of Mr. Backer: What's the status of ZenTech's study of the reliability of these tests? Is it possible to pass it on to us? How do you explain that ZenTech's tests were among the recommended tests, whereas today their reliability seems to be in question? What follow-up will you give to the order issued by the Court of First Instance of Liège? Have you provided the list of establishments where the tests are to be made available? With regard to the "Federal platform bis", will the deadline for obtaining the results be shortened by setting up this platform or is the idea to increase the number of tests. The aim of the platform was to be operational at the end of September and to have the appropriate number of machines. What about Mr. De Backer?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u11	Mr President, please excuse me, I pointed out in the chat that Mrs Tillieux's Wi-Fi connection is not stable. From time to time, we don't hear it and...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u12	Mr President, it seems to me that the oral elements are fully reflected in my written questions. There is no new element.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u13	Minister, you didn't miss anything!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u14	Mr President, I will try to stay within the time. The critical signatories to the open letter to which I referred in my question No. 55008502C to the Council of Ministers and to the European Parliament and to the Council of Ministers. Madam Minister, I would like to hear how you respond to that open letter and whether you attach importance to the arguments put forward. If so, what conclusions do you draw from this? Are there any measures that you are considering removing on the basis of the argument in the open letter? The signatories also argue that their clinical experience with regard to the treatment of COVID-19 and that of a number of other colleagues abroad is in stark contrast to the theoretical criticism that has even led to a ban on certain treatments in certain countries. How do you respond to that? Are you considering including those critical voices, such as those of the authors, in some advisory group? With regard to the anti-vaxers, results of the 19th-weekly Great Corona study of the University of Antwerp show that the number of people who want to be inoculated against COVID-19 is falling sharply, from 87% at the beginning of July to 76 percent in September. I would like to hear from you what you call this negative evolution and, by extension, the reluctance towards vaccination against COVID-19. Will you take measures to reverse that trend? If so, when will you roll out these measures? Finally, given the growing group of people who are at least not positive about vaccination and that there would be enough vaccines, what is your position on compulsory vaccination? In other words, will vaccination against COVID-19 become a compulsory number for the population or a free choice? From the antivaxers to the vaccine is just a small step. Let me brief my introduction. Madam Secretary, do you have any more information about the so-called break, as AstraZeneca called it? What is the status of the investigation? Regarding the delivery of the vaccine, the first charge was expected in the spring of next year. Is this prospect being compromised? Is there an alternative to the vaccine? Have you established contacts on this or are you aware of contacts? A fourth set of questions. Is our country obliged to reduce if the vaccine of AstraZeneca would not be first launched? You know it's not the first time the vaccine investigation has been stopped. The image of the vaccine is thus seriously damaged. What effect do you think that will have on the willingness to be vaccinated? Do you plan specific communication on this and when will you roll it out? That brings us almost seamlessly to group immunity. Last week, at the press conference of the Crisis Centre, virologist Steven Van Gucht presented a number of figures from two group immunity studies. Since both studies do not use a research group representative of the entire population, I would like to know whether you are planning to order a study for which that is the case and what arguments you are suggesting. I would also like to know why the figures in the provinces of Liège and Luxembourg are so worryingly different from those in the rest of the country. Finally, I have a question for you, Minister De Backer, about the problems with the corona app last Friday. What exactly caused the problem? Were the problems platform-bound? What steps were taken to resolve the problem? Is the timeline for roll-out for the entire population at risk?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u15	Madam Secretary, I will discuss my four questions together. What about the immunity of the population? We don't hear about it anymore. In May it was 6%. What about today's immunity? Can you give us a more detailed explanation? Can you also give us comparisons with other countries? Dogs are being deployed in the fight against corona. Where are we with the training of those dogs? Can these dogs also be used for visits to rest homes and psychiatric institutions? What's the cost of that? Is there a plan for the vaccination of the priority groups? Is there an order in there? Will vaccination be mandatory for the essential professions? What will happen to the refusers? Madam Secretary, do you have any scientific insight into the origin of the virus? Which sources will inform you? Why is it so quiet around the origin of the virus? There are a lot of conflicting messages around. What's your opinion on that? What are you basing yourself on?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u16	Madam and Mr Ministers, we have known since the beginning of the new year a rebound in the epidemic of coronavirus. Indeed, the figures are increasing, both in terms of contamination and in terms of hospitalization. In Belgium, we have reached the level of 100,000 contaminations. If the test capacity has increased, it is unfortunately not sufficient to explain such an increase. Unlike at the beginning of the epidemic, people under the age of 50 are now the most affected, particularly those aged 13-19 and 20-29. However, the increase in the number of cases also affects other categories of the population, including those over the age of 60. While younger patients tend to have less severe symptoms that do not require hospital care, some develop a severe form of the disease. Dexamethasone seems to have improved patient management, as I will mention in my questions. Caregivers also complain about an overload of work in terms of the number of people to be tested, as well as about their administrative burden and lack of or poor quality of screening equipment. Ministers, how can we explain such an increase in the number of contaminations in our country? How does dexamethasone improve patient management? At present, are other alternatives available and/or considered as part of the treatment of coronavirus? Can you provide us with a time perspective on the availability of a vaccine? As colleagues have asked other questions about the vaccine, I will not go back to that point. On the other hand, what solutions are envisaged with regard to the availability and quality of equipment? What are you proposing to reduce the workload of caregivers? Would solutions for simplifying administrative procedures be considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u17	Mr President, I refer to my questions in order to limit time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u18	Mrs Farih, thank you for your conciseness. That's how it goes fast, and that's good. In this way we have more time for the answers and the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u19	Mrs De Block, my first question concerns the workload of general practitioners. Still today, they feel alone in the face of the epidemic's rebound. They have to deal with both chronic care that has resumed and all the care related to VOCID-19. Among infectious diseases, they must differentiate between cases possibly VOCID-19 and others. This requires a real and very intense reorganisation of work. For example, the general practitioners of Charleroi, through the voice of the Charleroi Federation of Generalist Associations, issued a press release yesterday in which they threatened to strike because they really did not feel helped; they deplored the administrative burden they had to bear. For example, given the lack of efficiency in the systems put in place for the management of contamination in schools and workplaces, the burden of managing contamination is on them. Minister, how many generalists are active today in Belgium? As Minister of Health, do you follow the workload of general practitioners on the front line? What do you intend to do to reduce workload? Of course, I am thinking of the doctors' requests to reduce the administrative burden, such as the drafting of various certificates. Why not consider the non-necessity of prescribing work incapacity for each absence? We know that there are many more absences, both at school and at work. What support measures do you envisage for general practitioners? I am thinking of the organisation of triage and testing centres, the organisation of guard stations and chronic care. For example, how can the workload for the influenza vaccination campaign be eased? My second question is to Mr. From Backer and concerns the problem of testing. Mr De Backer, regarding the number of tests carried out, can you give us the percentage of tests carried out for symptomatic cases as well as the percentage of tests carried out as part of the search for contacts or as part of red or orange returns? With regard to the positivity rate of the tests, can you give us the percentage of symptomatic and asymptomatic patients? How many tests are carried out today in accordance with the testing criteria laid down by INAMI and what percentage outside these criteria? A few weeks ago, you said you were ready to go up to 90,000 tests a day. However, we have all noticed in the last few days, the increase in demand shows that the system is really not working well. I quote the College of General Medicine: "The system set up for testing is totally inadequate, both in Brussels and Wallonia – unless there is an exception." There are many testimonies. This is the fighter's journey to...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u20	Thank you for closing, Mrs. Merckx.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u21	This is the course of the fighter to get his test, but also to receive the results. So, Minister, what agreement do you have with private laboratories? A file published in De Standaard nevertheless revealed that the coronavirus tests represent a gold mine for them, with a benefit to the key located between 12 and 16 euros per test. Finally, a testing centre was set up at Zaventem Airport. Will the same apply to Charleroi? If so, under what conditions?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u22	Madam Minister, Minister, we are currently working on a vaccine against COVID-19 throughout the world. Normally, the development takes ten to fifteen years. Now people want to do it in less than one year. Many people are asking questions about the quality of vaccines and the safety of people, including those who are most vulnerable. However, according to the plans, they are the ones who, together with the caregivers, will be the first to be vaccinated. My question No. 55008400C is about that. My question No. 55008464C is about the PCR tests. The German virologist Christian Drosten found that those who got infected with COVID-19 weeks before the decline can also test positive, because there are still traces of the virus. Under the current regime, the persons concerned must be quarantined for 14 days, whereas at that time they are no longer contagious. Does the quarantine have any added value? I have asked a number of clarifications in my written question. Madam Secretary, my question No. 55008832C was directed at you and is about vaccination. The High Health Council has already issued an opinion on who should be vaccinated as a priority. It is important that we now design the organisation of this large-scale vaccination so that it is clear who needs to be vaccinated at what point. We also know that there will not be enough vaccines to vaccinate all Belgians at once. I do not think that logistics is feasible either. That is something that we will also have to take into account. The organization of vaccinations is a competence of the Communities. Do you have any idea of the Community's plan for this large-scale vaccination? Will you take on a coordinating role in that? My last two questions are addressed to you, Minister. The first of these is question No. 55008703C. All kinds of scientists are developing tests and vaccines, but dogs are also being trained to assist in the search for persons infected with the coronavirus. Dogs have a highly developed odor organ. Studies in Germany and France show very good results. We read that the federal government wants to use dogs to track down infected people. You have also expressed ambitions on this issue. Finally, I have an unsubstantiated question about an article that I read this morning. A company from the beautiful East Flanders, the walhalla of the innovative companies, is currently developing a device that would make it possible to take self-tests. According to the company itself, these tests would be as simple as a pregnancy test, but would not be completed until the end of 2022. In your opinion, could self-testing play an important role in the fight against the virus in the long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u23	Many doctors (71) and health professionals (257) sent an open letter to all political levels in this country regarding the still strict health measures to minimise the number of corona virus infections. The signatories question the legitimacy of the current advisory experts. According to them, there is no longer any medical ground that justifies any emergency policy. They fear that the collateral damage (think of the increase in intrafamilial violence, child abuse, loneliness, depression, suicide) will have a greater impact on our population in the short and long term than the ailment, being COVID-19. The measures should improve our mental and physical health, now that there is too one-sided focus on not getting sick and not infecting others rather than social well-being. The signatories ask questions when using the PCR tests, lockdown, mouth mask duty and see a solution in strengthening the natural immunity to treat the virus and strengthening a preventive health policy (sugar tax, making healthy food financially more attractive,...). The signatories call for an immediate cessation of the health measures currently in force and a restoration of democratic administrative and legal structures and of all our civil liberties. What's your response to the open letter? British pharmaceutical company Astrazeneca and Oxford University temporarily stop studying the corona vaccine because a volunteer has become ill. This may indicate possible side effects. Research has yet to establish whether this is due to the vaccine. It would not be a question of mild effects, as they had already been mentioned in the study. According to the New York Times newspaper, it was supposed to be about inflammation of the spinal cord. The Astrazeneca vaccine is one of the vaccines that is already in the third stage of development and on which the European Commission had been committed. For Belgium, 7.5 million doses were reserved. Through your spokesperson you indicated that if Astrazeneca is not the first to come with a working vaccine, someone else will. Europe is also looking at six other producers in particular: BioNTech-Pfizer, Sanofi-GSK, Johnson & Johnson, CureVac and Moderna.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u24	Minister, Minister, the number of infections is rising spectacularly. The number of infections among 60-plussers is also increasing explosively, over the past week it has more than doubled. How do you interpret these numbers? There's a National Security Council meeting tomorrow. Can you tell us what people can expect from this? How will the National Security Council ensure that everyone continues to understand the usefulness of the measures? Is there going to be a long-term perspective? Or will the measures change drastically? Madam Minister, I would also like to hear from you what you, as Minister of Health, think of Professor Herman Goossens' proposal to drastically reduce the requirement for quarantine in schools. Does the federal level have a view on that? Then I have a specific question concerning the airport. A test centre is installed at the airport and there is also, or there is already, a mobile test centre. There's an inequality in that. Anyone who comes back from a red zone, which has been banned so far, as well as the departure to a red zone, can undergo a free test. Those who are very good and leave for a green or orange zone but want to have a test carried out at the airport as a precaution must pay for it themselves. That needs to be looked at, because there is a serious inequality in that. Mr Minister, the care councils of the first-line zones and local authorities receive additional funding from the Flemish government for contact detection. You will say that this is not a federal matter, and that is correct, but I assume that you are following the global figures of the contact search closely. Do you think that better involvement of municipalities or first-line areas will be sufficient? Or should there be additional recruitments for the contact search? Will you ensure that the local authorities that take charge of the contact search have full access to the databases of Sciensano and the data for their municipality? Due to the increase in the figures, there is also an influx of tests and pressure on the laboratories. Do you think there is a need for further expansion of the capacity of the whole chain, given the increasing demand? You may also feel the pressure on doctors and laboratories. What do you think is the way we should go? Should we continue to scale up capacity? Is that possible? Or should we start thinking as we think in the Netherlands and limit the criteria for testing again? I've tried to summarize all my questions. Mr Bertels also has a question, and I suggest that he can put it quietly, Mr President, because I have heard people from groups that are as large as ours and who have been given much more time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u25	Please, Mr Bertels, calm down.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u26	Minister, these questions deal with a very specific set of figures that I am asking you to do. I hope you answer that. I am not going to read those questions. Nor will I read a series of questions about vaccines against VOCID-19, particularly after the occurrence of a myelitis in a patient vaccinated in the AstraZeneca Phase 3 clinical study, and the conviction of the Belgian state after the saga of Zentech serology tests. A few days ago, as well as the Prime Minister, you made a call to order with regard to the barrier measures. It is true that they must become automatisms. At the same time, there are extremely important shortcomings and failures in the device which must be major, namely to test, isolate positive cases and trace. No, it is not normal that today, at the testing level, it takes several days, in a majority of cases, between swab sampling and test results! No, it's not normal for our theoretical capability to be high, but operationally, things don't follow! No, it's not normal for the centres to be saturated! No, it is not normal for only two people per porter to be contacted at the tracing level, even though the GEES had postulated that at least ten people would be contacted and some countries would be up to 36 people traced. For all of this, we do not have a magic solution, but it is vital to strengthen testing, tracing, reorganizing screening by giving priority to symptomatics, keeping tests for asymptomatic people since they account for 40% of the cases and are at the source of a spread of the pandemic. It is necessary to allow to pass to the famous little swabs, these small pipettes very easy and much cheaper and disabling, which go much faster than swabs. It is necessary to strengthen the testing teams on the ground, to drastically relieve those who have administrative overloads. I saw that, finally, the ban on rapid testing had been lifted, but your responsibility, together with the various bodies, is to clarify the indications. Indeed, these tests are suitable for a number of cases. In addition, it also seems to me essential to be able to adapt various measures. This is particularly the case with the five-person bubble. Indeed, today the measure is impractical and absolutely does not adhere to the reality of families. If you have a child in kot, who has 5, 6 or 7 co-kitters who themselves have their family bubble, you will not forbid them to return home on weekends. If you have a 13-year-old child who is in a class of 20 or 30, its bubble of five is obviously unrealizable. This bubble must be able to evolve. Yes, we have to keep a strict limitation of contacts without masks with a proximity that stays outside the barrier gestures, but we also have to stick to the reality of the terrain. Does Belgium have data on patients with chronic VOCID disease, the so-called "long VOCIDs", whose symptoms are particularly disabling and have significant chronic lesions (pulmonary, cardiac, or even renal), their health being affected as well as their social and professional lives? In addition, would it not be appropriate to have guidelines for all caregivers, including front-line nurses and home nurses, in order to provide the best possible support? Is it not necessary to take various social measures, in particular for revalidation, but also for professional ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u27	For the rest, I wanted to take advantage of this meeting to revisit the current epidemic situation, which calls for greater vigilance due to the increase in contamination, hospitalization and, to a lesser extent, death. As a result, Minister, is there a system for monitoring contamination outbreaks today that would allow us to move, if necessary, to targeted, rather than generalized containment measures? Similarly, is there a system to monitor the situation of caregivers and their potential ability to cope with a larger rebound? What lessons have we learned from the first wave? Can you tell us if there is a national management plan that would be coordinated with federated entities in case the rebound should continue? Like some of my colleagues, I would also like to know what is happening with the vaccine proposed by AstraZeneca. In fact, clinical trials had to be discontinued following the onset of a disease in one of the volunteers. Therefore, if this vaccine were to be abandoned, what would be the consequences? Are there any alternatives currently under consideration? If so, which ones, and with what prospects? This question seems fundamental to me because we need to clarify this situation, especially at a time when the anti-vaccine movement is wreaking havoc, especially on social networks. In this regard, does the federal government have an estimate of the extent of this movement in Belgium? I would also like to return to the situation in certain test centres, particularly in Walloon Brabant and Brussels. There is a shortage of equipment, the presence of poor quality swabs or patients who have had to be sent home, some of whom have been trapped for several hours in queues in which the rules of social distancing were not respected. How can such situations occur today, when you have been saying for several weeks that we are able to perform 80,000 tests a day? Why have these centres never been informed of the existence of the emergency number that allows them to obtain online swabs from the federal stock through a logistics partner? What measures will be taken to discharge the generalists, who are overwhelmed not only by the influx of patients and test applicants, but also by the administrative burden imposed on them by the virus, particularly with regard to containment certificates? Will the prescription required for testing be maintained? With regard to digital tracing, we are announced that the Coronalert application will be launched on 28 September. However, it has been known from the outset that this application will only work effectively if a large part of the population adheres to it. So what is the government's strategy to encourage citizens to install this app on their smartphone? What about people who don't have a smartphone? In conclusion, I would like briefly to go back to all the information that goes against the current of barrier gestures, on conspiracy movements, anti-mask movements, etc. These movements have grown to such an extent that the WHO has called on governments to engage with citizens who adhere to these movements and to remind them of the danger of the virus to them and others alike. Therefore, what is the government's strategy? Will this issue be discussed in the National Security Council of tomorrow?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u28	Mrs Rohonyi, thank you and I now turn to the ministers. Since you must leave at 5:00 p.m. and we must have time to reply, I would ask you to complete your interventions by 4:20 p.m. at the latest. I know there are a lot of questions. I'll let you work it out between you as far as the allocation of time is concerned. Who speaks first?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u29	Mr President, I will begin this time. After all, there is a Consultative Committee in preparation for the National Security Council tomorrow. That wasn't decided until last night. Otherwise, we would have had more time. I shall begin with the first questions raised by Mrs Gijbels and Mrs Creemers, among others, on the long-term effects of COOVID-19 on patients. At present, there is only information in six months. It will also be necessary to determine which of the effects are due to the infection and which of the hospitalisation or intake come from intensive care, as well as how complications occurred during the recovery. Sciensano has activated several surveillance systems in this area, to monitor the number of diagnoses based on laboratory and doctor reports. The Institute also monitors hospitalisations, in which the number and characteristics of patients with severe forms can be assessed in detail. Sciensano also collects data on complications during hospitalisations through a sample of patients. Indeed, this information shows the frequency of reporting, i.e. more than 10%, of material surinfections or renal failure during hospitalisation. These complications are risk factors for the development of longer-term effects. It is true that Sciensano will also study the longer-term consequences of COOVID-19. Many conditions, not least the privacy of patients, must also be taken into account. In the meantime, the hospitals are tracking the patients. They should not therefore be called up again. The GPs do the same thing. There have been questions from almost all Members about the epidemiological situation. I will give you the epidemiological situation as it was yesterday during the Consultative Committee from 4 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. There is indeed an increase throughout the country, but especially in Brussels and the provinces of Antwerp and Liège, where the number is rising very sharply, especially in large cities. It can still be traced back to clusters, family clusters, but also in schools. There are more than 100 cases a day. In Brussels, the number of hospitalizations is increasing most. The number of hospitalizations in Brussels is currently 40%. So Brussels hospitals will be the first to receive many patients. They're already working on it. The difference with the first wave is also an interesting theme. In the first wave there were 10,000 diagnoses in March of which 3,500 people were hospitalized. The reproductive factor was 2.3. The number of people in intensive care was 1,260 at peak. Yesterday there were 6,158 diagnoses. Of these, 315 were hospitalizations. That has increased a bit today. The reproductive factor is 1.36. There are 71 beds on the intensive services occupied. This wave behaves in a different way than the first wave. According to Sciensano, we must continue to work on the control of the clusters, the contact tracing, enough testing and certainly hammering the population on the quarantine and the measures to be taken. So there's actually a widespread increase in infections. This is also happening in the countries around us. It is followed up there, but the clusters are also in schools, businesses, families and so on. Where measures have been relaxed, there are more infections. This is now the case in almost all countries. Mrs Depoorter asked a question about the colour codes on the European card. It takes into account the cumulative 14 day incidence of new positive tests per 100,000 inhabitants. It is also used by Sciensano, along with other indicators, such as the positivity ratio, which has also been mentioned, the trend of cumulative incidence, number of hospitalizations generally and on intensive care, number of consecutive days with new infections, geographical spread and type of environment. Thus, no criterion in itself is sufficient to bring about a change in the level of threat. It is a common analysis that should lead to this. Mrs Gijbels, for the patients admitted to hospital, a surveillance is carried out, the search capacity survey, which gives the aggregated data per hospital, but also the clinical survey, which collects individual patient data. This is being taken into surveillance. Tables are made per province of the patients who have been included since the beginning of the epidemic. The duration of the stay is put in there, and all this is put in an Exceltable. I'll get it to you. It's hard for me to explain it now. As regards daily survey capacity, a distinction is made between new laboratory-confirmed recordings and the recordings of laboratory-confirmed patients who have been tested positive in a screening, but who were recorded because of a pathology other than COVID-19. So we have a classification in the COVID group. An Excel table is also made with an overview of the figures, national and per province. Mrs. Gijbels, you also had questions about the testing centre in Zaventem. That's a private initiative from the airport. There is, of course, a collaboration with the RIZIV. It is to be said, people who normally fall within the case definition and therefore have to be tested, for example all people who come back from a red zone, but also people who live around Zaventem, for whom there is a RIZIV refund in another lab, will be refunded. That is a refund of 46 euros. Testing other people who say they want to know, or people who ask for a certificate for admission in another country, can also happen there. Then the price is determined by the founders of the lab. We really cannot repay them, firstly, because those people are not sick and secondly, because that test has no preventive value whatsoever. So there's no grounds for reimbursement, because someone who's tested negative today could be infected by tomorrow. You say that you hope that the interpretation of the National Security Council will be clear. I'm not sitting there alone and everyone is free to communicate afterwards, but I assume everyone will do their best. There has also been a group specifically engaged in communication. Mrs Depoorter, as regards the local source search by home nurses, we have asked the RIZIV. However, there was no knowledge of home nurses who were employed for this purpose. This means that they will not be paid by us, otherwise they would be informed at the RIZIV. You can send me more details so we can find out exactly what it's about. Source detection is also a task of the Länder and perhaps Flanders has provided for its payment. We should be able to find out. There was indeed work on the coronabon and I share your view that it should be paid out as soon as possible. The registration of a basic allocation in the Law of 30 June 2020 opening provisional appropriations for July, August, September and October is not sufficient in itself to pay that premium. The administration of the FPS Social Security Office is finalising the texts in order to implement the solidarity premium. Those people are doing their best, but as you know, it all takes some time. With regard to the triage doctors, I can give you the numbers. Payments have already been made for the period from 23 March to 27 July for medical coordination and nurse and administrative support by RIZIV. This is only about payments by the RIZIV for 144 centers. For coordination, it is completed at EUR 9.9 million, for nurse support at EUR 3.3 million and for administrative support at EUR 3.6 million. This gives a total of about EUR 17 million paid out by the RIZIV. I'll get you the exact figures. As regards physical examinations in the triage centres, there are the following figures: the number of centres is 116 and the number of benefits in kind transferred to insurance institutions is 141 361. The total amount of benefits in kind treated so far amounts to EUR 4.1 million. Until 30 August, a total of EUR 5.9 million was also paid out by the RIZIV to triage and purchasing centres for the activities of doctors, including coordination, but also physical examinations and decreases. Until now, compulsory medical care insurance has paid more than EUR 25 million to the triage and purchasing centres. If some doctor hasn't received his money yet, you may pass it on and we will ask the RIZIV why he has slipped through the meshes of the net. Mrs Gijbels, you also had questions about mortality and causes of death. I will forward the technical explanations to you after the sitting, if you will allow me. There were a lot of questions about the vaccines. I explained that last time. There are already agreements between the European Commission, which negotiates contracts, and a number of manufacturers. The legislation on product liability is fully respected there. An EEA market licence is also needed. This means that quality, efficacy and safety requirements must be met. If there is no EEA approval, the vaccine will not be purchased, but there is an obligation in the contract if the vaccine is completely in order. It was also asked whether the interruption of AstraZeneca's trials will affect for two weeks, but AstraZeneca himself said that this will hardly or not affect the date of availability. Last time, it was also said that responsibility for the vaccine remains entirely with the company. However, the early purchase contracts included clauses that compensate the company for possible liabilities under strict conditions, specifically for each contract. The company remains liable and also has to compensate for damages if one deliberately makes mistakes. I also explained last time that the contract was negotiated under a no-profit-no-loss clause. This means that AstraZeneca delivers the vaccines at a cost. There, too, the financial burden is shared between the contracting parties, taking into account the very rapid development that is needed. Each participating Member State has co-signed this. It is important that this can only be used after a European marketing authorisation has been obtained, i.e. after a positive benefit-risk ratio has been demonstrated. This is another possibility to test the quality. Mr Creyelman made the point that we will not be able to vaccinate everyone at the same time. The vaccines will be released in a phased manner, by Member State. Therefore, they have chosen to negotiate with different producers: Johnson & Johnson, Sanofi, GlaxoSmithKline, Culevac, Moderna, BioNTech, Pfizer and Novavax next to AstraZeneca. As far as the second contract is concerned, it has only just been decided. We also have another five days here to do the opt-out. The FAGG is currently looking at this in order to provide us with a report for advice. Mrs Sneppe, Mrs Taquin, Mr De Caluwe and Mr Bertels also asked questions about the Advisory Committee. This Committee advises the Interministerial Conference on the dossiers relating to possible early purchases submitted to Belgium. There are experts in vaccineology, immunology, clinical practice and regulation and, of course, the representatives of the Länder. They are experts with no conflicts of interest. I would remind you that they are delivering an opinion, but that the decision lies with the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health. A vaccination strategy must indeed be developed, which also addresses the demand for vaccination. There is an Interkabinets Working Group on Prevention, which also reports to the IMC. It also discusses questions on the priority groups. The practical organisation of vaccination is the responsibility of the Communities. Given the complexity of the organisation, a task force will also draw up a plan there with representatives from different federal administrations, defed entities and the actors involved. The antivaxers aren't new. We know the antivaxers, also against other vaccines. The mistrust is present in certain people and is fed through the social media they seek. The Länder will develop campaigns to raise awareness and thus fight against the fake news and scaremongering which are suddenly spread through social media. Mrs Farih has asked about how many people we have in our country. We have no idea, but such information can also be found mainly on international websites. There are questions about the quarantine and the testing. Those questions will be answered by Minister De Backer. In fact, the last word has not yet been said on this issue either. Mrs Jiroflée also asked a question about this. For testing capacity, the RIZIV concludes agreements with the triage and purchasing centres, but also with the staff at the disposal of those triage and purchasing centres. Students can also be used as part of their internship. In this respect, we are now trying to find out which people might still be able to use, without having any difficulty in doing so. A framework agreement was concluded at the Inter-Ministerial Conference in May to better organise early detection and clusters. Mobile teams are provided for this purpose, which are used by the Länder to intervene in collections, e.g. schools and residential care centres. At the same time, hospitals were invited to set up mobile teams, which could then intervene. Mrs Tillieux, all sorting and sampling centres have the possibility to establish their sampling function at different sites, depending on the size of the demand they are facing or in order to increase their accessibility. For example, some centres facing significant demand, such as those currently in Brussels, have set up up up to four different locations for sampling. Several of them also reserve certain sampling sites exclusively for asymptomatic patients. It is true that, for example in Brussels, Mr Maron is still setting up additional sorting centres. This is also the case in Wallonia. This also happens in Flanders, but there they were reduced less quickly. Maybe colleague De Backer will come back to that. Of course, there are those who were shut down too quickly. Mrs. Creemers, you asked for telemonitoring. I also read that there is a pilot project in Genk. There are always conditions under which that can happen. You asked if it would be rolled out. It's a pilot project. I assume that they are financing this themselves or that it is being done through cooperation. We are not yet involved in rolling that out or in compensating for anything. Mrs H annoyance, regarding medical homes, it is true that several risk factors have already been identified in international scientific literature. They are also questioned in the clinical surveillance of in-patient patients. The biggest risk factor is simple, age. We can't change that. Other risk factors include smoking, high blood pressure, diabetes, and obesity. The relevant data shall be analysed and communicated to the authorities. There is an increasing number of international publications that also refer to ethnicity as a risk factor. Studies also refer to socio-economic factors. It's just as important. This is a delicate exercise. It is planned to implement a seroprevalence study among study participants and health interviews. In this sample of the Belgian population, a wide range of socio-economic determinants have already been studied. It would be very useful to link this information to the presence or absence of antibodies against this virus. Taquin, there is also a literature describing a link between nutritional imbalance on the one hand, and morbidity and mortality caused by VOCID-19, on the other. An article in the New England Journal of Medicine shows that mortality is higher among minority groups. The authors conclude that differences in eating habits play a crucial role in the health inequalities that occur during the pandemic. According to the World Nutrition Report, malnourished people also have a weaker immune system and may also be at greater risk of serious disease due to the virus. This report also links diabetes to obesity and a worsening of the disease of VOCID-19, including the risk of hospitalization and death. There is still much going on in the studies, but we already know which direction it will take. As for the open letters, there are few days that there are no open letters. They are always read, the information is included and the services are asked what can be done with it. Those people are sometimes welcomed, too. There are regular contacts with doctors' representatives and scientific organisations. Yesterday there was a long meeting about the burden on the first line and the fear of being flooded there. That meeting was led by Director-General Pedro Facon of the FPS Public Health. There we looked at what could happen on the ground to avoid the general practitioners having to divide their attention between giving flu vaccinations, doing tests and taking care of their other patients. Mrs Merckx also asked that question. In the previous wave we set up triage centers, coordinators and home equipes to help the general practitioners. During the press conferences and interviews with the spokesmen, Mr Van Gucht and Mr Van Laethem, answers are given to the issues raised in those open letters. The Celeval agenda also covers certain issues which are the subject of these open letters and is included in their opinion, which is currently being discussed in COFECO and tomorrow in the National Security Council, where a number of points still need to be clarified. Mr Creyelman, we follow the recommendations of Sciensano and the FAGG, which are based on national and international literature and evidence, with regard to the treatment offered in some open letters. They can also be found on a number of websites. I'll get you those web addresses. The off-label use of medicines remains not recommended and can only be justified in exceptional situations and with the necessary scientific justification, in accordance with the legal framework and the deontological code on experiments.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u30	Madam Minister, I would like to interrupt you by saying that there are still 15 minutes left for Mr De Backer's reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u31	To answer Mr. Rigot's question on mental health, we worked with all mental health representatives. Working groups including the stakeholders are now trying to see what initiatives could still be taken, thanks to the money received from Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u32	Mr President, I will look at the questions on each subject, starting with the tests. Over the past few weeks and months, we have worked hard in the Clinical Biology Committee to further increase the test capacity in Belgium. The aim is to scale the clinical labs to 50,000 to 55,000 tests a day and to add another 40,000 tests a day with a federal platform bis. I never said that we would have that capacity at the beginning of September, because the logistics behind this scaling-up obviously takes time. In the meantime, the first machines have been delivered and today the clinical laboratories in Belgium have between 35,000 and 40,000 tests per day. The federal platform can handle between 10,000 and 12,000 tests a day today. I am not hiding the fact that there is absolutely pressure on the system if more than 45,000 tests are carried out a day. In fact, that is much more than in our neighbouring countries. It is important to maintain this scaling up and ensure that this test capacity is used to the full. There were also questions about the delay in the results. I have requested the latest state of affairs from Sciensano and of 92 percent of the tests the result is known within 48 hours, which is certainly not wrong. I have heard from Herman Goossens and others this week that this is perfectly acceptable. We must, of course, continue to strive to obtain all the results as soon as possible, preferably within 24 hours. On the other hand, we must remain realistic. With 45,000 tests a day, most results are within 24 or 36 hours. As mentioned above, 92 percent of the results are known within 48 hours. We also see a shift in the type of people we test as there are more and more symptomatic cases. The distribution between symptomatic and asymptomatic is approximately fifty-fifty. Furthermore, we see that between 15% and 20% of the tests are carried out in people returning from a red zone. These are about 4,000 to 5,000 people per day who fill in a PLF and come back from a red zone. 80 to 85 % of them are also tested effectively and the positivity rate is below 2 %. We also see the number of contacts increasing at the contact tracing. We have ensured that information on positive cases is transmitted in real time. More than 90% of laboratories transmit the results within the hour and 95% within four hours. So that delay has been removed from the system so that the contact tracing can get started quickly. They manage to reach all index cases within 2 to 3 days. The people who pass on contacts still pass on an average of 4 to 4.5 contacts per person, and also those people can then be warned and possibly tested. The system is under a lot of pressure. I think first of all about sorting centers, where many people come up with symptoms or being asymptomatic in order to get a test. Maggie De Block and I have already asked by letter and in meeting with the Interdepartmental Committee to encourage the Regions to open more sorting centres. We reached an agreement in May on the various responsibilities. The federal government is thus partially responsible for the funding. Similarly, we have provided the opportunity for nurses and trainees – and more only doctors – to take samples. In this way, more staff will be able to work in sorting centres. In addition, the hours reimbursed have been increased. On the other hand, this protocol indicates that infrastructure and organisation depend on the regions. That is why, in recent months, Maggie De Block and I have insisted on the need to increase the number of sorting centres. Secondly, we observed that the pandemic was growing exponentially in large cities. We must therefore open test villages there, like the initiative taken by the city of Antwerp. I know Alain Maron, for the Brussels Region, is thinking about it. On the Walloon side, the Region indicated that a coordinator of the sorting centres would be appointed on 1 October. That's the state of affairs. I believe that more support is needed for general practitioners. Last week, we attended a meeting with them and the Regions. Two points were raised. First of all, more sorting centres must be opened. Second, for administrative burdens, it is the patients who call their general practitioner in order to obtain information. This is why the Regions should be able to set up call centres, where patients would be helped if they had a general question about quarantine, how to get an appointment for a test, etc. In this way, generalists could take time for symptomatic patients and no longer answer every question asked by the public. These are solutions that I have already proposed a few weeks ago. So it's important that the whole chain stays intact. We do sometimes experience logistical problems, but they are usually solved quickly. For example, the problems with the delivery of wipers are solved within 24 hours. Of course we also see a very rapid increase in some centres de tri. Some can deal with this better than others, but we try to remedy the problems that arise very quickly. Because the chain as a whole is maintained, we currently carry out more than 45,000 tests a day. So far, the structure of the PCR tests. There were also questions about false positives and false negatives. That is something that needs to be slightly nuanced. More than 2.5 million tests have currently been carried out in Belgium. We now also see people who have been tested in the past and are still testing positive for a PCR test today. In those cases, there is a clear recommendation from Sciensano what needs to be done. For example, you can look at CT levels, at antibodies. One can then consider whether or not that person is still contagious clinically. According to the experts, these cases are still relatively rare at the moment. There is also a whole discussion about a new generation of rapid tests, the so-called antigen test. That, too, is what we are looking at. If they come on the market, the experts from Sciensano and the FAGG will have to determine the location of these rapid antigen tests throughout the spectrum. Mr De Caluwe talked about innovations in Belgium. We still have a lot of innovation. All these new tests that are starting to be offered, PCR tests, antigen tests, antibody tests, we can look closer. As you know, this week we abolished the Royal Decree of 17 March. This means that the self-tests are freely available. When people are going to use that self-test, one should be very careful because it is always about antibody testing. People who test positive may have had an infection in the past, but that can also be a false positive, because most tests are still not so sensitive. If one tests negative, one cannot say that one is not contagious. There is a need for clear information. You will find this on the website of the FAGG. This will be communicated by the spokesmen this week. Regarding serological tests, as you know, at the beginning of the crisis, most experts were clearly convinced of the need for serological tests. In the meantime, opinions have changed considerably. In April, it was in this context and not wanting to face shortages that we purchased serological tests. However, after a few weeks or even months, it became clear that there was no place for serological testing in the testing strategy. We have therefore renegotiated all contracts with suppliers (DiaSorin, Ortho Clinical, Abbott, ZenTech). We have reached an amicable agreement with each party. For the three large companies, it consists of halving the volumes. This means that we will still buy tests to have a strategic stock if necessary and so that laboratories can take advantage of it. For ZenTech, initially, when we purchased these tests, a study in Liège had shown very high specificity and sensitivity. Meanwhile, two studies, including one from Sciensano, showed that this specificity and sensitivity were less important than indicated by ZenTech. That's why we decided not to buy ZenTech's tests but to reimburse ZenTech's already incurred costs. We found a fair and amicable solution between the Belgian State and ZenTech. Following the last royal decree, each immune test that has obtained an CE mark can be introduced into the Belgian market, which is the case for ZenTech. It is also important to see how we can follow the test strategy with the epidemiological situation we are in. You know that we have a very broad testing strategy. I'd like to keep it that way. It is very important to monitor very quickly symptomatic but also asymptomatic high-risk contacts. That's why these tests are essential. At the next meeting of the National Security Council, we will also look at how the testing strategy can be adapted, for example, the discussion on quarantine. That discussion is ongoing and will be judged by the National Security Council tomorrow. We are trying, for our part, and the scientific community is also trying, for its part, to provide input in order to find a reasonable solution. I have already said a great deal about the triage centres. With regard to serology, the criteria according to which tests for persons working in health care are reimbursed are clear and will not change. As far as salivary tests are concerned, and as already mentioned several times, Mrs Taquin, the study requested by the Task Force is published on the Sciensano site. Sensitivity is less important than with a test obtained by nasal or oral sampling. Experts are still discussing where and when salivary tests can be used. I am in favour of their use and as soon as they have made their decision, we can move forward on the subject. In France, they decided to use salivary tests for lack of swabs and that is what they also do for the elderly. However, it should be borne in mind that older people have less saliva, which may cause some concern. We ask the working group to continue the studies as in Liège and Antwerp in order to determine when salivary samples can be used. Then I come to the questions about the dogs. There is indeed the study of Ghent University, set up by the vets. We are looking, also with the army, to see if we can effectively train dogs. This can be useful at large mass events, for example. Of course, this study needs to be completed before we can be sure of its effect. Then I come to the questions about the tests that are being carried out at Zaventem airport. It is the airport itself that took that initiative and made an appointment with the Eurofins Labo Van Poucke laboratory to place their samples there. The system works like this. If you fill in a PLF when you come back from a red zone, you get an activation code to be tested. This activation code can be used in the Zaventem test centre. That system is running well. We also see that 85% of the people coming back from a red zone are actually being tested. The cost there is identical to the refund made by the RIZIV. Departing travellers have to pay for this themselves, because they themselves take the responsibility to travel to a green, orange or other zone that asks for a test before travelling. There it is the patient who pays that amount. People who still want to leave and want a quick test, because they haven't had the time or taken the trouble to go to a laboratory, use another technology, which also exists in hospitals. That is where the RIZIV decided to increase the reimbursement a little, because there the logistics, the way these machines work and the reagents are slightly different. That's why that cost is a little higher. However, that cost is not borne by the State. Moreover, the State does not contribute to the tests at Zaventem airport, which is independent of the traditional reimbursement for people who fall within the criteria. And so that lab could charge a little more for the patient or the person who wants to leave. I have also heard that the other airports are thinking about the possible opening of a test centre. These are initiatives taken by the airports themselves. Of course, we are following these initiatives with great interest. I think I covered all the other questions about testing. There were also a number of questions about the protective equipment. The scarcity has been less for a while, today the pandemic is attracting worldwide again and it becomes more difficult again. We have, of course, bought a lot in recent months. Our last purchases date from early May. In this way, we managed to market a lot of material in March-April for people in the healthcare sector. After the first wave, we also managed to predistribute about 100 million mouth masks towards the first line - hospitals, general practitioners and so on - so that they already have a strategic stock. At the same time, we are building up the federal strategic stock to about 180 to 200 million materials. The average price we paid for a mask is about 30 euro cents, for an FFP2 mask about 3 euros. The lowest price we have paid is about 1 euro for an FFP2 mask. The price of the surgical masks always fluctuates around 30 cents. I also read the advice on kinesi therapy, Mrs Depoorter. This was mainly about the respiratory physiotherapists, to whom we always supplied FFP2 masks during the crisis. However, the market is open today and we are considering, in consultation with them, whether we can help them or whether they themselves can provide FFP2 masks. That should be possible. Most hospitals, which have been asked to build a strategic stock of about three months, are also successful. Some hospitals say that they are experiencing difficulties, but that is mainly because the cost would be too high. I find that, frankly, no reason not to be prepared for what is coming to us in the autumn, so we are pushing the hospitals to take their responsibility and to build a stock of two or three months. I'm entering the contact tracking now. On the subject of contact tracing, I have already given some figures: 85% of the positive people are contacted in less than two days. Most of the others are contacted within three days and on average four people are reported by the person who is positive. Around 90% of contact persons are reached by the call center in less than two days. The vast majority of these are even under 24 hours. The fact that laboratories transmit their information faster than before has of course helped. It is important to continue to involve primary care. As you know, this is a matter of regional competence. I leave it to the regional ministers to reply, but we have insisted very strongly on inter-ministerial conferences since May-June, on the implementation of the GEES recommendations. This concerns the opening of additional triage centres and the deployment of additional mobile shifts. Consideration should also be given to how to better organise steel extraction in order to avoid capacity problems. It is important that this is done further. I have also seen that a number of buffers were provided for in the contact search, so that there are no problems there, as Karine Moykens said. As you know, the discussion on the quarantine ash such goes even further. At the end of September, early October, the application will also be launched and available to the general public. At present, it is being tested by about 13,000 people in certain schools and companies, to ensure that the system works properly. I have only received positive feedback on this. There was a problem with the Android settings at the launch, but that has now been solved. This budget amounted to half a million euros excluding VAT and was paid by the Regions - the development of the application falls within their competence. For our part, of course, we have helped in the implementation of the necessary provisions. In this context, Bart Preneel's expertise was really helpful. The Google and Apple app has also been launched. The application is linked, and the developers of this application as well as the Interfederal Committee are in contact with Apple and Google for everything related to the link between the Belgian application and its implementation at Google and Apple. The Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) is public and can therefore be consulted. All aspects of privacy are in order. The coronalert app uses technology developed by Apple and Google. Google and Apple will undoubtedly not be covered by the Belgian Data Protection Authority, but by the Irish Data Protection Authority, because they are based there. They should have their DPIA checked there. Of course, she must have been made public. I suppose those companies will have done the same. They have developed a piece of technology, in particular an exposure notification API system, which is a kind of interface that allows, on the one hand, the contact tracing app to function and, on the other hand, to ensure that the information becomes available. One contact point per country must always be specified. Sciensano acts as a contacting authority in this respect, because it is not possible to give up four or five authorities, despite the fact that contact detection is a regional competence. Therefore, Sciensano was chosen as the central point of contact. Mr President, I am trying to be brief, but there were a lot of questions. I'm going through my notes to see if a question hasn't been answered yet. About the COVID-19 app I have answered most of the elements as well, about the testing on Zaventem and the PLFs. We are also working on the personnel problem in the labs. Through the RIZIV we have made it possible for people who do not meet 100%, but who do have the right qualifications and expertise to work in labs, to get started. Work is under way to enable both clinical laboratories and the federal platform bis to recruit staff. The positivity ratio, as I have already indicated, is 3.8 %. For the return from red zones, it is lower. For people who are symptomatic, she is of course higher. For high risk contacts, it is around 5 to 5.5 %. Those are the most recent figures I've seen.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u33	Mr. Secretary, you're gonna have to finish anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u34	I think I answered most of the questions. If there are any outstanding questions, I'll answer if it's before 5:00 p.m. Otherwise, I will respond in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u35	For the replies, the group with three members gets six minutes, the group with two members four minutes and the group with one member two minutes. That's what we should have done at 5:00.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u36	Madam Minister, Minister, many questions have been answered, a number of questions are still pending. I'll file it again. Indeed, these questions deal more with an analysis of the first wave and any lessons learned from it. In the meantime, I suppose they are working on it, or at least I hope they are. Mrs. De Block told me about the communication. Everyone will do their part after the National Security Council. That's the problem. So far, everyone has given their own interpretation of the rules. We absolutely must avoid that. I hope that this will be better this time. The testing centre in Zaventem is indeed a private company. Madam Minister, if that is the first thing foreign visitors come into contact with, it is very important that this works efficiently and that it works properly. There seem to be problems with communication, especially with software communication and reading the QR code. Hopefully that will be followed up a little bit. Mrs De Block indicated that Brussels is likely to be the first to face increased hospital occupancy. Hopefully a plan for hospital capacity has been envisaged in this wave, so that it can be spread on time. That was indeed a problem in the previous wave, especially in my own province, Limburg. Some hospitals were overloaded. Hopefully, this time it was also thought to organise the transport between hospitals properly, should that be necessary. That's a very delicate transport of ventilated people. I hope there will also be helicopter transport between the hospitals with a heliport. I just read in the scientific JAMA of 16 September an article from a cohort study that indicates that patients wearing glasses are less likely to experience COVID-19 than non-glasses. That has to be looked at carefully. This may lead, where appropriate, to certain advice to vulnerable groups, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u37	Madam Minister, Minister, thank you for the answers. As far as the people with a second stay in Spain are concerned, you have given an answer in relation to the colour codes. I would ask you to reconsider this tomorrow in the National Security Council, because we will have to have a long-term solution. There are possibilities with quarantine and testing, but it's possible that we'll be going on for a long time with the corona vaccine and we can't ban people from going to their property for two or three years. Madam Secretary, as far as the COVID vaccine is concerned, I have heard you speak of the clause, but I have still not seen it. I'd really like to have a look at them to see what's agreed and what's done. After all, the transparency of the deals you make with the pharmaceutical industry is very important. I didn't hear anything else about the distribution plan. Certain vaccines should be stored and distributed at transpose 80°C. How will you do that? I also didn't hear anything about the vaccination plan. I hear from my colleagues today that there are already problems with the flu vaccination. From 1 October the flu vaccines may be distributed to the patients at risk and there are so many reserves at the pharmacy that the stock is virtually exhausted. If we don't have a good plan for the distribution and administration of that COVID vaccine, we're gonna be in trouble. So please take this seriously. As far as the general practitioners are concerned, it is good that there is consultation, but there are still concerns. At the first wave, the continuity of care was not guaranteed and we absolutely must avoid this happening again. The continuity of care is, after all, extremely important. For example, we see that many fewer cancers have been diagnosed, but there are also other side effects of that lack of continuity of care. We need to support those doctors. You say that you are going to encourage the regions to set up a call centre, but support in practice is even more important. Patients are now used to calling their doctor to ask if they should be tested and some triage posts still require a prescription for the test. Support for general practitioners in practice is therefore needed. With regard to contact tracing and the amounts mentioned, it was indeed the local authorities that were currently paying these amounts. We really need our general practitioners and they do a teleconsultation for 20 euros. For less than half the price of a consultation that the home nurses charge in this offer, they go to the patient's home. Do you think that's deontologically justified? Shouldn't we be supporting our doctors anymore? Minister De Backer, you said you never said we would have 90,000 tests available. However, at the committee meeting on 8 July, you indicated that once the flu season or cold season arrived, you would provide 90,000 tests per day. I told you then that you would only have a stock for 14 days and that this was a little small. A real problem remains the waiting times. How can a doctor motivate his patient to stay in quarantine until the test is conclusive, if the waiting times remain that long? There is therefore still work to be done on this too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u38	We shall now go to the group of spectacles.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u39	Thank you for your answers and I will certainly come back to you for these studies on seroprevalences that show a correlation with socio-economic determinants. Indeed, a series of clinical studies have been conducted on co-morbidity factors since the outbreak began. They are increasingly known: diabetes, smoking, cardiovascular diseases. It is precisely these most precarious populations that present these associated diseases. It would be very interesting to launch a federal analysis of the causes of these associated diseases among these populations to provide objective prevention recommendations and to target them to the Regions. For it is good to have a description, but above all to have a more detailed analysis and to have specific recommendations analysing the causes of these links so that we can go beyond a mere constant. Mr De Backer, as I understand it, you said that you preferred to pay Zentech back instead of getting serological tests. The deal is that you allowed the over-the-counter sale of these serological tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u40	No! The royal decree fell without any discussion with the companies. After negotiations, we have reached an agreement with the four companies as already mentioned several times in this committee. We have reached an amicable agreement: we will buy serological tests from Abbott, Ortho Clinical and DiaSorin, the prices and quantities of which will be reduced. For Zentech, we won't buy anything from them because of the study by Sciensano which has shown too little sensitivity to their use in different studies. We have reimbursed some of the costs Zentech incurred to produce these tests for Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u41	Two weeks ago, however, it seems to me that the royal decree had been extended, right? Was the sale ban not prolonged? Two weeks ago, these serological tests couldn't be sold and then, suddenly, we can sell them freely? There's something I don't know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u42	(excluding microphone).
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u43	This shows once again that there is no global testing strategy in the medium term. These tests could perhaps be used in a broader epidemiological study or in sorting centres to avoid unnecessary PCR tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u44	Sciensano indicated in a study that will be published that even in these cases it is impossible to use this type of test. That is why we have concluded this agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u45	Okay! We will see this in studies that will be available in other committees. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u46	I'm just trying to be the person who doesn't follow the committees completely and only hears the outside communication. I'm from an orange area. There are more and more of them in Europe. I'll fill out the form online. It says I'm advised to get tested. I arrive in Zaventem, and there I have to pay for the test myself, because it is no longer so strongly advised to test. Well, then I'm worried. After all, I hear everywhere that I have to get tested. I'm calling my GP. He's been given the board to get as many patients as possible tested. So I have to go to my GP, then take my form to a triage center. I can imagine some people can't follow anymore. Moreover, in order to relieve the pressure on the general practitioners around the orange zones, I also assumed that in mid-September an additional form would be attached to the Passenger Locator Form, so that the triage based on my risky behavior should not be made by my GP, but by that form. In the meantime, we'll be halfway through September, and I still don't think that's okay. Maybe we should come back to that in another committee, if we do not have the time now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u47	The self-assessment tool is ready and is launched, only there is discussion about who we should apply it to. The tool has been completed and prepared by the regional health inspectors and has now been implemented. He can be posted online in the next few days. You must, of course, know where, when and how to use it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u48	Good. As far as the 92 percent of the tests that are handled within 48 hours are concerned, that sounds good. If my sons come home with 92 percent on their report, I'm very happy. But still, 8 % remains to wait for a long time. I hear that in the schools of my children, in Limburg, it takes two to three days before they can be tested anyway. Then it's another two to three days before they get their results. That's how the wait runs for a long time, especially when you have three children who do all this in succession. Just be the parent who needs to get all this organized. So I don't think that 92 percent is something we should just accept. 8 % out of a total of 45,000, these are some people who have to wait a long time for their results. I hope that we can still gain efficiency there. As far as vaccines are concerned, we must trust that the clause is in order and that the FAGG gives us good advice. The EEA approval is still a stick behind the door in case anything goes wrong. I just hope that the pressure from public opinion and the pressure to compete with other continents will not be too great and that things will proceed as they normally do. Madam Minister, with regard to those open letters, it is good to hear that dialogue is taking place and that it is usually answered. One point from the open letters, which I personally found correct, is that we speak too little about taking good care of oneself, taking good care of the other, taking good care of oneself and not about not getting the virus, but about strengthening one's resistance. That's a point in those letters that I thought was perfectly right. I hope that will also be communicated in the coming weeks. I hope that tomorrow, after the National Security Council, there will indeed be a final communication plan, so that we finally know where we stand.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u49	Mr President, I will also give my colleagues time. I think we really come to the limit of these topical debates, since even if the ministers answer the questions, they are drowned in a whole that does not make things very easy. In this case, with the number of questions I had today, I am still a little frustrated. I did indeed have answers from both Mrs De Block and Mr. Backer, but not with the finesse I would have wanted for some questions. I let my colleagues reply for answers that they might have been able to get. I wish you all a good end of the afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u50	I would like to take this opportunity to say that we will naturally have another topical debate in two weeks' time. Everyone is, of course, free to clarify their questions or reformulate them if they feel that they have not received enough answers today. Next week, we will have a question-and-answer session with Ms De Block on non-VOCID-19 issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u51	Mr President, I have seen my questions on the open letters and the policy critics answered. The same applies to the antivaxers and the vaccine. Questions about the figures in certain cities were also answered. Those about the corona app were also largely answered. Madam Secretary, I may have missed it, but I do not think I have received any answers to my questions about group immunity. I do not think I have received an answer on whether vaccination is compulsory or not. If I am a good understander, I believe that between the rules you are implicitly in favour of this, assuming that it would be phased out. Or do I misunderstand that? If you have time for that, could you please explain?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u52	Mr President, I said that once the vaccine is there, vaccination will be phased out. We have received a calendar that starts in March and ends in September-October, containing the deliveries of the respective firms, if all goes well. A Working Party on Prevention was set up at the Inter-Ministerial Conference in connection with the obligation or non-obligatory. Of course vaccination and prevention, except for polio vaccination, are a community matter. In connection with immunity, we're investigating how many antibodies there are in the blood of Belgian blood donors. This has been measured since the end of March. We have therefore had the results since the end of March. That gives us a careful picture of the exposure of the population and how much immunity there is. It's kept by Sciensano. The data will be co-ordinated with the Red Cross and the Service du Sang de la Croix-Rouge. We see that there is now an immunity of 5 %, last month it was 5.7 %, so that fluctuates a bit. However, we have been around 5% for seven months. So we are not yet seeing that group immunity rise. The share has remained fairly stable since April of this year. One has to be careful with that, because blood donors are people between 18 and 75 years of age, usually they are healthy people. A second study is carried out on 850 health professionals in our hospitals, in collaboration with the Institute of Tropical Medicine. Their blood is being tested monthly. Since the end of August it has been higher there. It always fluctuates around 8 %. So we see 3 % difference between the average population between 18 and 75 years old and the health workers. That's not surprising either. In almost all subjects, antibodies remained present throughout the entire study. That's over four months. Only in 2 out of 81 people did they disappear over time. Those were people with mild symptoms or other. To really speak of group immunity, more than half of the population must have antibodies or some other form of immunity. Most estimates assume that this should be even 70%. So we're really a long way from group immunity.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u53	We'll agree on that. I'm glad you're quoting the same figures as I did in my question. My question was whether you might wish to order a study in which the research group used is representative of the entire population, as this is not the case for the two studies cited. The research group, or steel in statistics, should be representative of the Belgian population. Another option is that you stick to the two current studies and continue them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u54	I'll leave it to Sciensano. They coordinate and establish contacts. If there is another partner they can work with, they will. They must also first have more clarity about how to reach another group in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u55	I need to keep an eye on the time, so I suggest we finish this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u56	Madam Secretary, I would like to return to the vaccination plan. I would like to hear you say that a working group has been set up. There are already a lot of working groups and in the long run the trees cannot be seen through the forest. Either the plans came too late, or there were no plans. I hope, therefore, that the discussion will not linger in the working group, but that there will be a plan that will hopefully come in time. You also said something contradictory: the responsibility for the vaccine lies entirely with the company, but there are clauses. I find that very contradictory. I am thinking, for example, of the care professional who is subject to vaccination, whether mandatory or not, but the vaccine is failing and the care professional is ill for the rest of her days. Then who's responsible? That's what it's about. If there are clauses in the contract, it seems very contradictory to me that the company would be responsible. Every time the question about the origin of the virus is asked, it remains silent, even this time. I will turn that question into a written question and then I might get an answer. I find that very bizarre. Why can't there be open communication where the virus really comes from?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u57	Mrs Dock of the MR is no longer present, so I turn to Mrs Farih.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u58	Mr President, many of my questions have been answered. I suspect I'll hear more about the changes in quarantine measures tomorrow. As far as triage centres are concerned, I have received answers, but we must continue to see how we can reduce the pressure on the first line. There's a lot to do with the labs being delayed. I also hear in my region, Limburg, that a lot of people who may have been infected have to wait three or four working days before they can take a test and then add another 24 hours. Then we have six days of uncertainty and then we have to start the real quarantine. Minister, I asked if you have an overview per province and how many labs have already been sanctioned. I did not receive an answer to that, but I may be able to do so in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u59	No labs have been sanctioned yet, because the results were initially passed on. Most labs transmit the results within four hours, more than 90% even within the hour. The biggest delay lies in the time that passes between the decline of the steel and the moment the steel arrives in the lab. If a GP takes a sample and doesn't call a lab until night, they lose 12 hours already. That's where we need to see how we can optimize the process. That's why I advocate testing villages in the big cities. This way everything can be streamlined better. Samples can then be collected 4, 5 or 6 times a day. We must also extend the triage centres further so that only the symptomatic people come into the offices of the general practitioners. People without or with mild symptoms can then go to a triage center. In this way one can better streamline the whole process and try to shorten the first twelve hours of the TAT.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u60	Thank you for that answer. That's actually the signal I'm getting from the doctors. It is the regular visits that cause a high workload. The testing on top of that will cause delays. So I hope we can quickly re-establish more triage centers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u61	In June, the regions were asked to do so. We have now taken matters into our own hands because we have had little feedback on this for the last two or three weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u62	Thank you for that answer. I will then put a written question to see which labs are the most delayed in which regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u63	The figures will be published shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u64	Mr. President, Minister, Minister, we are obviously all nervous about the decisions of tomorrow's National Security Council. If the numbers are not good in several places, it is, among other things, because the health system that is needed to control this epidemic is not in place. And that's where I'm a little mad at you, the ministers. If international standards say that it takes 24 hours between a test and the result and that the person must have that quickly, there are reasons. However, if it derails today, it is in particular because we are not in the right place. Mr De Backer, on August 26, 2020, you said that laboratories know how to carry out between 35,000 and 55,000 tests and that they must do them within 24 hours. And today, you say that 92% do it within 48 hours, and that's good. I do not agree with that, especially since you did not count the combatant's course to get the tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u65	It's in there, Mrs. Merckx! Look what's going on around us. In France, the deadline is six days. In the United Kingdom, they stopped testing asymptomatics. In the Netherlands, there is no more test. We do 45,000 tests a day. This is done in some cases with a time frame that is not reasonable. I fully agree with you, but we are working with general practitioners and laboratories to further shorten these waiting times. However, the figures clearly show that deadlines are acceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u66	On 26 August 2020, you said that the laboratories were ready to do between 35,000 and 55,000 tests a day. Last week, however, we went on to 40,000 tests a day and laboratories are no longer able to work properly. It's not okay! And you're the one responsible for making it feel better.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u67	Timelines have not increased. Laboratories and general practitioners work day and night. A little respect for them, please!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u68	Of course we need respect! But what did you conclude with the labs? You told us it was in order, but it's not. What is happening today was predictable. The same applies to front-line caregivers. Mrs De Block, you barely said a few words about general practitioners. Yet they are the ones we need on the front line. They're in the middle of work. You had a meeting yesterday and you didn't even deliver the conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u69	Mrs Merckx, I told you that we had had contact with them and that we had heard their questions and concerns. Should I remind you that the organisation of the first line is the responsibility of the federated entities? Yet, this is being done within the Public Health FPS. Thank you, Mrs Merckx!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u70	I'm sorry, but it's been months since the ministers turned the ball over. And, after so many months of crisis, we hear again and again in committee that it is someone else's responsibility. We want concrete answers. I am outraged that after so many months, you are still at the same point and that you always reject your responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u71	Mrs. Merckx, there's a protocol. We're asking to execute him, no more, no less!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u72	Madam Minister, Minister, thank you very much for the answers. I understand that you have an important meeting at 5 p.m. in preparation for the National Security Council tomorrow, so I will leave it at that so that you can leave on time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u73	Mr President, I too would like to thank the ministers for the answers. I would like to make a few more points. I share Mrs Depoter's concern about this clause in the contracts with the companies responsible for supplying the vaccines. I asked a question about this a few weeks ago, and then there was a vague answer. After what you said today, that vagueness remains. Furthermore, I am somewhat disappointed that I do not receive an answer to my question to consider a less long quarantine for children if there were any infections at school. Perhaps the system proposed by Professor Goossens could be applied? How about that less-long quarantine so kids can go to school as much as possible? I'll come back to this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u74	Ministers, we'll see what the NSC decides tomorrow. In any case, the return to school, the return from vacation and the return to work were predictable. For weeks, during the summer, you said that you were managing the situation well and that everything was in order, because you had planned everything and organized it. However, we find ourselves in circumstances where we reproduce exactly the same mistakes as in February. We're late. The gap is widening with the teams, which are again submerged. Besides, you send the ball back from one level of power to the other. I can't imagine you're not aware of this: caregivers are always questioning you, as are testing centers. You know that several laboratories are experiencing major difficulties. In addition, a letter – which I have in front of me – has just been sent by laboratories indicating that they will no longer make an appointment from 1 October, both in the drive-ins and in the centres – simply because they are no longer able to follow. They work 24 hours a day. You, as an authority, with regional governments, it was your responsibility not to announce theoretical capabilities, but to deploy an effective and operational mechanism and to ensure that all this was going to work and that the teams and the means would be sufficient to achieve it. When you talk about 92% of test results within 48 hours, you forget that sometimes several days are necessary just to get an appointment to get tested. The effectiveness of the scheme is therefore largely inadequate, since control of the epidemic is declining during this time. All this was predictable. Today, we are still waiting for decisions from the CNS and running with a lot of delay on the virus. That's pretty deplorable. We need to give this device an accelerator. It's urgent!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u75	Mrs. Fonck, to answer you, I also saw the tweets. We contacted the lab in question. He did not complain about a lack of swabs, but indicated that he had to meet the two-day deadline before giving the results. That's why he had to limit the number of tests. We have an agreement with the Clinical Biology Commission, which requires each laboratory to sign a contract with other laboratories so that, if they fail to follow up on the applications, it is up to the others to process the samples. In this way, shortages are avoided. That is how it must work. I instructed INAMI to contact this laboratory to see what is happening and find out how to help the various laboratories. Of course, logistical elements are difficult on the ground. That is why we are trying to help general practitioners and laboratories continue in this system and in this exponential curve which we know today and which is, I think, rather due to people's behaviour and non-compliance with the rules and not to the state's system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u76	Mr President, very briefly, I would like to give the example of a laboratory, an example that happens in many places. Minister, did you have to predict that the testing centre teams would be insufficient? Yes! Should you expect an increase in the number of tests? Yes! You keep pointing at the population by saying, "That's because you don't respect the barrier measures enough." Barrier measures must become automatic, that is clear, but the whole system of testing, tracing and isolating positives is your responsibility, Madam and Mr Ministers with regional governments, and that is where there are unacceptable shortcomings!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u77	Madam and Mr Ministers, I thank you for your answers, in any case the answers to which we have been given, even if in the end you refer a lot to the CNS, especially with regard to the famous bubble of the five and the duration of the quarantine. Like my colleagues, I regret it very much because, although people will be told to respect health measures, people will, in any case in their entirety, only adhere to them if they are given meaning. This must be the NSC's priority tomorrow, namely to protect vulnerable people, to limit contact at risk, and to raise awareness among young people about the role they have today, despite themselves, in the chain of contamination. As far as the tests are concerned, I also regret that in the end the doctors' appeal was not heard. That still raises questions. Mr De Backer, you are in favour of setting up a call centre to answer the patient's questions and thus discharge the doctors. In concrete terms, who would take charge of it? I feel like it's an idea you're saying you support, but there's nothing behind it. The same applies to the prescription for testing. Will it be maintained? I didn't get an answer. Setting up new sorting centres in the different regions will not solve the problem of administrative overload. As far as vaccines are concerned, very well, the federated entities will therefore set up awareness campaigns; but here too, these campaigns should be launched now, especially with regard to the phases of vaccine development; because if we do not do so, if we do not ensure transparency with regard to the development of these different vaccines, we will finally only feed the distrust of the population and the anti-vaccine movements. Finally, I must truly regret that I did not get any answers for the long VOCID. For me, this is a disrespect for the 9,000 patients who are affected by this problem. They are people who are cured of the coronavirus but who still suffer, on a daily basis, the physical and psychological consequences of this continuing disease. I think it is really more than time to give them the recognition they deserve today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic265x.u78	I thank all members for their presence, for asking their questions. Of course, I thank the ministers for their presence and for their answers. We will have a new topical debate on VOCID-19 in two weeks' time. Next week, we will have an appointment with Mrs De Block for questions that do not concern VOCID-19.
