ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u1	Madam President, Minister, I will briefly explain my question. Under your impulse, two important issues could be negotiated with the banking sector: firstly, a charter on the postponement of payment of capital repayments and/or interest in company credit and mortgage loans and, secondly, a state guarantee for bridging loans to companies through royal decree. The charter with the banking sector stated that the banks would not charge any costs for these matters. In addition, when we look at the State guarantee, we read in Article 22 (8) of the Royal Decree that credit institutions should not charge charges that would not otherwise be due, they do not want to lose the State guarantee on the loans in question. In my view, therefore, this philosophy should include the retention of reservation fees. That's what my question is about. Is it true that booking fees can still be charged within the agreed charter with the banking sector, even though it was agreed that no charges should be charged? If so, is this view of the Royal Decree on the State guarantee in relation to the second part? Finally, do you not think it is appropriate to set up booking commissions, especially in cases where the loan cannot be fully drawn up due to external circumstances?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u2	Madam President, Minister, I have four questions. The first question concerns the financing needs estimated by the Debt Agency. The Agency has proposed a new financing plan with a gross financing requirement of EUR 51.8 billion and a net financing requirement of EUR 31.4 billion, estimated more than three times more than originally estimated for the COVID-19 outbreak. The High Council of Finance has more or less confirmed these predictions for 2020. Minister, what is the flexibility of this financing plan both in the positive and negative sense? Does the financing plan include European measures such as SURE, ESM and bonds, whether within the euro area or not, or do you provide all the funding on the private capital market? My second question concerns the bank guarantee deal. In connection with the follow-up to the bank guarantee deal, we have asked several times to monitor this properly. We need to know what's going on on the premises. We talked about it yesterday. You have referred to a tool from the National Bank that is currently being developed. How's the National Bank's tool coming along? Allow a differentiation to analyse what is happening on liquidity and solvency for self-employed, SMEs, large and medium-sized enterprises. Such monitoring is essential if we are to be able to trace where it goes wrong and where we may need to adjust, as you yourself have said. My next question is about solvency. We fear, together with you, that a number of liquidity problems will pass into solvency problems. What additional measures do you intend to take? Those will probably be federal fiscal measures. Will these be measures directed directly at the companies or to the providers of capital? Are you also thinking of differentiation between SMEs, self-employed people, etc., or differentiation based on the sector? You have already referred once to the catering and events sector. Do you attach conditions to these support measures for companies such as no dividend payment, non-purchase of own shares, no link to tax havens and respect for social dialogue? Your Dutch and Danish colleagues have already done that, I think, quite rightly. My final question is important to our taxpayers. It will no longer be possible for tax officials in local tax offices to provide physical assistance for the many people who have to fill out their tax notes every year. Last year this happened 620 000 times. So many people came looking for help to fill out their tax returns. Now we'll only be able to do this by phone. The phone is a tool, but we fear that this is not enough. Taxpayers who have problems with the complexity of their tax returns and who have questions usually need real physical contact. You know the common problems such as the number of loans before and after a certain date, the different depreciations and income from abroad, such as foreign pensions. All this is not obvious to fill in. Minister, is it an option to provide physical assistance in safe conditions? Many civil society organisations are asked to help fill in the tax returns. Can we not re-establish a system of mandates, as it used to be? This can be introduced back in MyMinfin instead of in Tax-on-web. One could give a mandate to people who are trusted to help fill out the tax letter, as so often happens in Flanders and Belgium. We need a service to help people fill out the complicated tax return. Otherwise, many people are unconsciously risking having to pay hundreds of euros too much taxes due to incomplete or misfilled declarations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u3	Mr. Ben Achour, you have four questions. I'd ask you to put them down in three minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u4	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in order to ensure the safety of FPS Finance and Taxpayers' employees, the sessions to assist with the filling of personal tax returns at the administration's premises and in the municipalities have been cancelled. This has just been recalled. On Thursday, 9 April, the FPS Finance announced that citizens who have benefited from this assistance will be able to get a telephone appointment, which concerns more or less 620,000 individuals. For 100,000 of them, whose number it has, the administration stated that it would go so far as to contact them personally in order to organize this session. In addition, the usual Contact Centre will be accessible to the population. The introduction of this system is obviously excellent news. In the present circumstances, it would not have been tolerable that this part of the population, which faces difficulties in the face of this annual exercise, would not be properly accompanied by the necessary assistance. In the same spirit, the maintenance of the usual date of filing of declarations should not delay the possible reimbursement of persons during this period of crisis. These refunds are likely to be a breath of oxygen for many taxpayers. Minister, how many agents are assigned to the proper execution of these telephone alternatives and how will this be technically organised to avoid overloading telephone lines? Can the tasks be carried out in telework? Can you assure us that the particular situation we are going through will not have an impact on repayment times?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u5	Mr Ben Achour, I think we have not understood each other well. You have three minutes to ask all your questions. So I'm going to ask you to speed up a little bit and try to get to the essentials.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u6	In time for me! I'm so sorry. I was distracted, it's my fault. The second question concerns the distribution of dividends. As far as companies are concerned, under the circumstances, common sense would like them not to distribute dividends and to reinvest the money, if they have it, in the revival of their business. The rule should be stricter for companies that have benefited from government aid. I recall the decision announced by President Macron in France. We have already mentioned the issue and you have rightly said that a company that has been through or has been through difficulties has no real interest in paying dividends. But what is your position for companies that have received public aid? Merci.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u7	Madam President, Minister, I have some questions about the banks today. How do we ensure that funding is put in the right place? How do we ensure the stability of our financial institutions? How do we ensure that this health crisis does not become a structural economic crisis and not a financial crisis? My first question concerns the banking agreement. On 27 March we discussed the bill, with the Royal Decree on 8 April. It was a very good parliamentary debate. The essential point was the follow-up and monitoring. Mr Bertels also referred to it. How do we check the results in the field? Minister, you also committed yourself to monitoring this very transparently, together with Parliament. However, we are still a little hungry. There are e-mails coming in about lending that is not too smooth anyway. It is dangerous to draw conclusions from ad hoc examples. We need to be able to objectify that. So we really need that tool from the National Bank. What is the state of play? When will it be ready? When can we expect the first results? Mr Minister, when your answer is that the tool is ready and the tests are now being started, can we look at that tool? So we can see which parameters are included. When it is ready, but not yet deployed on the ground, we really want to ask for a closer look. The second issue has also been a bit in the public debate, it is about whether or not to set up a European bath bank. All acid loans are then centralized into a European bath bank in bad Dutch to ensure that problems are concentrated and not infect all banks in the European Union, since the repayment of a number of loans could be compromised. That's what conversations would be about. There have been strong statements on this from southern European countries. Mr. Secretary, are you aware of these talks? Are you involved in those conversations? Who did you talk to? What did you hear? What's coming? Our impression is that France, in particular, is the driving force behind this proposal, because we know that there is an exposure between French and Italian banks. Can you confirm or deny that? If something like this were to happen, what would be your position and that of the government? Is there any thought of placing Dexia in such a European bath bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u8	Mr Gilkinet, I would ask you to include all your questions. Your speaking time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u9	Madam President, Minister, I come back to a dialogue that we started last week on the discount applied to temporary unemployment benefits known as 'corona'. The current rate is unique and puts workers at a disadvantage at the lowest wages, which thus receive a net allowance far removed from their usual wages and needs. The idea is to lower the rate of the professional discount now rather than waiting for a tax refund two years later. During our last discussion on April 21, you were encouraging and said that you were exploring the possibilities with your administration. My proposal is very clearly a 10% reduction in the rate applied to all the workers concerned, which would have a positive effect on the workers at the lowest wages. What about your discussions with your administration and other relevant ministers? Can you confirm to me that such a solution can be implemented for the payment of unemployment benefits for the month of May? This is an essential issue that affects the daily lives of the workers concerned. I also wanted to ask you about the operation of the Maintenance Receivables Service (SECAL). In this period of health crisis, more and more workers are facing a precarious situation due to the loss of their income. This is particularly the case for mothers who would not receive the maintenance due. In this regard, SECAL plays a strategic role, in order to avoid any situation of insecurity and poverty. In this difficult time for all, do you see an increase in requests for advances at the SECAL level? If so, how much? Have human and budgetary resources been made available to SECAL to enable it to make advance payments to the families concerned? Can urgent action be taken in this regard? My other questions concern the tax shelter, which we also discussed last Tuesday. You mentioned the establishment of a technical group at the level of your administration and an interpretative circular. Mr Piedboeuf and I then insisted on consultation with the sector concerned, particularly with regard to the postponement of the burden of proof of costs. I would have liked to have an update on this, hoping that the FPS Finances has been able to move forward since last week. Similarly, as far as SFPI-FPIM is concerned, could you comment on the discussions you have announced in progress with SN Brussels Airlines for possible assistance? You know our views on this, Mr. Minister of Finance. For us, there can be no question of aid without a fundamental change of model, in connection with our climate objectives, but also with the accountability of SN Brussels Airlines' owner, Lufthansa. The SFPI has a strategic role to play in the context of this crisis in relation to Belgian industrial flowers which would be in difficulty in terms of recapitalisation, ad hoc aid, portages. Can you inform us of what has been put in place at the level of the SFPI to ensure this mission of protecting our economy and these blooms with a view to redeployment, which we hope will come as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u10	Minister, I have several questions concerning support for SMEs and businesses. The state guarantee was already discussed here. How's this going on the premises? We hear that this does not always go smoothly. Large lists of data already held by banks should be completed. Is it also envisaged to extend the period of 12 months? Are there any initiatives to strengthen capital? You made a move last week. Is there any further thought on that? Any news on that? Is a distinction made between sectors? Then I also have a number of questions about support for ordinary people and the personal income tax, which has not been said very much, except for helping them fill in by telephone. Are we considering speeding up the refund of the personal income tax this year? The tax returns made with Tax-on-web before 15 July could be processed more quickly and reimbursed in the autumn, which could be an additional incentive for the people on the ground. I also have a question about frontier workers following my question last week. Then you said it could be quick. In the meantime, is there an agreement with the Netherlands? What's the timing? Then I have a question about Europe's recovery fund. We heard on Thursday that this recovery fund is coming. Belgium had yet to adopt a position. Is there any more news about that? Finally, what is the cost of the various measures? A number of measures have already been taken. There's a lot more coming. What is the rough estimate of costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u11	After liquidity, Minister, the solvency of our companies is important. You have negotiated so well with the banks that they themselves remain at risk, and to a greater extent than in the arrangements developed in neighbouring countries such as France. What can we do to ensure that companies can regain their own capital without being sanctioned by existing legislation? A wide range of measures is circulating. A number also appeared in the press, from tax carry-back to the possibility of distortion in the event of an increase and then repayment of capital, but also the extension of the tax shelter regime. I also regularly hear a plea for a new Cooreman-De Clercq Act. All countries are trying to support major national companies and airlines. Europe usually allows that. However, if one thinks in the spirit of the Cooreman-De Clercq Act, it can no longer be reserved for Belgian companies from a European perspective. Is this not the time to start this discussion with Europe, if the corona crisis does throw a number of theories overboard? If capital can be mobilised, the necessary incentives or benefits could be linked to the economy of the region in which the measure is issued.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u12	Madam Chair, Minister, we talked about this last week and I know that your teams have already worked well, because we have made progress on deadlines. We'll know a little more about it tomorrow. There were two elements in the tax shelter file: the relative ceiling – I know that there is some blocking at that level – but above all the absolute ceiling for 2020, concerning the increase of the ceiling to 1.5 million or 2 million, which seemed to be possible. Then we had two other aspects. Transfer of agreements on other projects, as projects are abandoned. Indeed, we know that, especially in the field of performing arts, performances of performances will not take place. It would be necessary to be able to transfer funds received from other projects. The other issue that remained to be resolved was the problem of expenditure already implemented in projects that were cancelled. These are the four elements. I know that your services are working well and that it is moving forward. I also know that the sector is being consulted. I would have liked to know if further measures were to be taken in this sector, which is one sector among others, of course, but which is important because it concerns a lot of people in our country and in sectors that are also in difficulty – such as artists.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u13	Minister, we were talking about Brussels Airlines last week and I would like to comment on your reply. You mentioned the setting up of a working group on aviation at the FPIM, which examined the Brussels Airlines aid dossier and looked at all the slopes. There are now new elements, because decisions are being taken on the applications of various airlines throughout Europe. Lufthansa, easyJet, SAS, TUI and Air France already know State aid and Alitalia is even nationalised. A letter was also reported to Prime Minister Wilmès in which Lufthansa's top management said that the group would be kept together and believed in Brussels Airlines' future prospects and guarantees that when the Belgian government would provide aid, it would only be used in Belgium. Therefore, this aid could not be transferred to other parts of the group. Mr Minister, have any progress been made since your reply last week? If so, which one? What is the status of the Brussels Airlines file?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u14	Minister, the Belgian Debt Agency announced a month ago that Belgium has room to finance more debts. Interest rates are very low and may remain low as a result of the ECB's buy-back programme. Has there been an estimate of the increase in Belgian debt for this month? After all, it was said in March that the effects would be evident in April. Are there any measures to meet, if necessary, additional financing needs? What opportunities does a number of European opportunities offer for Belgian financing needs? The following question concerns credit insurers. There is a draft agreement on a reinsurance programme with partial guarantees by the Belgian State. Can you explain this a little more, particularly as regards the distribution of risks and premiums? My next question is to ask you, even if it is not entirely your competence, but you did come up with it a month ago, namely the corona premium for workers who remained in difficult conditions. A bonus of up to EUR 1,000 was mentioned, without paying social charges or taxes. Do you formally confirm that the EUR 1,000 corona premium, without RSZ contributions and taxes, as well as the granting of additional holiday days for workers who remained on the job, have been definitively abandoned? If there is a good legal argument and motivation for that, I would be happy to hear it from you. As far as the catering sector is concerned, during Friday night's press conference, you pointed out the very long marathon for the catering sector. It would certainly not be able to get back to work before 8 June. The industry immediately asked for further action, in addition to the good measures already in place, such as the Flemish nuisance premium, the right to bridge payments, delays and bridging credits, to avoid possibly a wave of bankruptcies. You confirmed that something extra was coming. What additional measures can you, within your jurisdiction, and can the government take to give the hospitality sector some extra oxygen? Are you prepared to plead with your competent colleague for a complete waiver of the RSZ contributions for the first quarter of the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u15	Madam President, Minister, I come back to you on the question of the occupational discount on temporary unemployment benefits. Indeed, following the crisis we are experiencing, the percentage of temporary unemployment benefit has been increased from 65% to 70%. We had already had the opportunity to welcome the measure. In addition, an amount of just over five euros per day is to be paid by the ONEM. The temporary unemployment benefit, which therefore amounts to 70% of the gross wage capped at €2,755 per month – whatever the status of the household – is subject to a professional discount of 26.75 %. The impact of the discount rate on the allowance, calculated on the basis of a capped gross wage, results in a very significant decline in disposable income for hundreds of thousands of households. Minister, you announced last week that you had instructed the administration to find a solution for these thousands of people in a difficult financial situation. I'd like to know if you've found this solution? If so, could you explain it in detail?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u16	Mr Minister, we met yesterday, and I already asked and answered some of my four questions, but not another one. That's why I'm taking them back here. My first question concerns the conditions for State aid to companies. You have said that it is difficult to exclude companies that avoid taxes from State aid. But we find that quite an easy excuse. It may be difficult, but we are talking about billions of euros. It is worth making more efforts and making real work of a final definition and touchstone, on the basis of which one can judge whether or not a company avoids taxes. We have also made a proposal on the subject. We have also given a definition of tax avoidance. That is why we would have liked to know how you judge that definition. You explained yesterday why you did impose conditions in the draft law on advance payments and not the postponement of the payment of taxes. Of course, you don't have to repeat that. But you won't be surprised that we still disagree. Moreover, the reasoning does not go for the state guarantee either. Maybe you can say something about that, too. I also asked you yesterday about our legislative proposal to apply the four conditions before companies can avail themselves of the State guarantee. The four conditions are the ban on avoiding taxes, the ban on paying dividends, the non-playing on the stock exchange and the non-paying of bonuses. This applies globally to all State aid, including the bank guarantee. I would have liked to have received a response to that. My second question concerns the delay in payment for mortgage loans and company loans. I'd like some detailed figures on that. You mentioned some global figures on the total number of deferred appropriations yesterday. Is an analytical division possible between non-profit organisations, self-employed persons and SMEs, among others? Have any complaints been received from the self-employed and SMEs who consider that the credits have been wrongly refused? Will the banks that refuse to postpone be sanctioned under Article 19, second paragraph, of the Royal Decree on State guarantee? If so, from when? We have also made a proposal on the financing of the crisis measures. In normal times, the strongest should bear the heaviest burdens. That is, of course, also the case now in crisis time. We have put forward a constructive proposal for a one-off coronatak, a solidarity contribution from the overpowers in our country. In concrete terms, this is a 5% tax on assets above EUR 3 million, with an exemption for group assets of EUR 500,000 and for the first home of EUR 500 000. So the tax is for the most wealthy in our country. Similar proposals were also launched in the surrounding countries. In Germany, for example, this is the plan. Do you like that proposal? Do you have any other fiscal or budgetary slopes in mind to close the coronaput? For the record, it is a one-off contribution. There is a lot of disinformation being disseminated by right-wing parties about this. In particular, the N-VA claims that it is a structural burden, but that is not true, it is a one-off contribution to the highest capabilities. The last question concerns the state guarantee for bank loans. I would like to get some detailed figures, if they are available. From when and how will you apply Article 23, fifth paragraph, of the Royal Decree on State guarantee? This means that banks that systematically refuse credit would lose their state guarantee. Where can companies deal with any complaints? Is that with the Treasury Ombudsperson? Will you take more binding measures vis-à-vis banks if it turns out that the self-employed or SMEs are not getting credit?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u17	Minister, about a week ago, the FPS Finance announced that a number of exit scenarios from the lockdown are under way. In doing so, mouth masks and the preservation of as many telework as possible are two important aspects. Last week, in committee, you said that during the period of the lockdown measures, the financial importance of the State is a central criterion in considering whether or not checks on general tax administrations and BBI are being postponed. This interest may be jeopardised by failure to carry out or delay an audit, as well as by limitation periods or by tax fraud. Moreover, it appeared that those records had not requested any personal protective equipment. Firstly, what is the state of play and the timetable for the exit scenarios of the FPS Finance as a whole? Secondly, what role does the personal protective material such as mouth masks play in these scenarios? Thirdly, can you give a rough estimate of the number of deferred and cancelled tax and BBI checks? Does the lack of demand for personal protective equipment mean that no checks have been carried out on the ground? Finally, which exit scenarios are on the table, specifically for administrative taxation and BBI? What role will a prioritisation of certain controls play in these scenarios?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u18	Madam President, Minister, according to a study by Graydon, since the start of the VOCID-19 crisis, the risk of bankruptcy has increased three or even fourfold, and companies have an estimated equity requirement of €8.4 billion. According to news reports in the press, last Thursday the government and the RMG are studying several avenues of solutions in order to avoid absolutely disastrous economic consequences. It will be recalled that, last year, almost 12,000 companies were declared bankrupt in Belgium. Although it is difficult to draw up a projection for the first months of this year, there is no doubt that this number will increase. According to the information provided, large companies would need EUR 3.8 billion and SMEs EUR 3.9 billion. Finally, the European Commission has adopted a temporary framework for the state aid scheme for the period from 19 March to the end of December in order to enable Member States to provide more support to the economy and to ensure the availability of sufficient liquidity for enterprises of all types, with a view to maintaining the continuity of economic activity during and after the outbreak of VOCID-19. In this respect, my group recalls that the Commission has authorised a French framework scheme of EUR 7 billion to support SMEs as well as large companies. Minister, I come to my questions. Can the study of the Graydon office be communicated to us? Does the government already have an estimate of a possible increase in the number of bankruptcies following the outbreak of VOCID-19? Finally, will the measures envisaged by the government and the RMG to support businesses be authorised by the European Commission under the State aid scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u19	Madam President, Minister, the crisis we are experiencing today is having an impact on us all. Some people, however, are more affected than others. Among these are single-parent families. From year to year, the number of single-parent families is increasing. Belgium has 2.2 million households made up of single parents or single parents. And these families are at a higher risk of slipping below the poverty line. In Belgium, eight out of ten solo parents are women, according to figures from the Amazon Association. The League of Families recalls that more than eight out of ten single-parent families are finding it increasingly difficult to complete their end of the month. So, just coincidence? Maybe not. According to various surveys conducted on Belgian territory, single mothers are more likely to suffer from burn-out, depression and isolation. They also find it more difficult to integrate into the labour market, as employers fear their potential absences and lack of flexibility. In addition to the issue of employment, these mothers are also often subjected to violence and blackmail from their ex-partner. Let us add to this the unpaid maintenance that also plunges these women into great insecurity. While the situation of these families, often single women with children, is already very complicated in so-called "normal" times, this period of confinement does not help for them or their children. Therefore, the role of SECAL, which is fundamental at all times, is even more essential at this time. Minister, a few months ago, this Parliament voted to increase the revenue ceiling to benefit from the maintenance advances proposed by SECAL. But here we have the ambition to make SECAL a universal service, accessible to all single-parent families. In view of the additional difficulties encountered during this particular period, do you not think that the ceiling of €2,200 in revenue should be abolished as a matter of urgency and that SECAL should be made a universal service for all single-parent families?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u20	Madam President, there are many questions for which I am grateful. So we probably left for a new marathon. I will do my best to keep my pace under control, allowing the translation to follow. I shall begin with the questions on tax shelter by Mrs Depoorter, Mr Gilkinet and Mr Piedboeuf. I understand, of course, that there is a great deal of concern. I am also aware of the difficulties that the sector may face as a result of the exceptional situation in which we are now in. We're doing an investigation right now. It is not clear whether most of the difficulties can only be solved by a legislative initiative. As I mentioned last week, a communication was published on the FPS Finance site on 13 March 2020, which included a six-month extension of the time limit for spending, both for the taxshelter audiovisual works and for the taxshelter performing arts. Our Government has therefore already decided to take certain temporary measures concerning the obligations to be fulfilled, either by the eligible production companies or by the eligible investors. We sent suggestions to the GMRA, which gave us its opinion. The opinion was also followed to the extent that tomorrow, 29 April 2020, an amendment on the anteriority rule will be submitted to the tax shelter. That rule will be legally anchored, not only for the audiovisual sector but also for the performing arts and gaming, which will enjoy it. That will provide the necessary oxygen in the short term. The administration is also working on a circular on the tax shelter and the consequences of VOCID-19. In the coming weeks, there will be more clarity on the measures. I know that Mr Piedboeuf has already asked questions on this subject on several occasions. This circular will provide further details. In any case, we will take the necessary measures for the sector. There were also questions about temporary unemployment. Mrs Fonck, Mr Gilkinet and Mr Laaouej, I understand your many concerns. We have taken several steps to ensure that this difficult period remains financially viable. The occupational allowance for statutory temporary unemployment benefits is now uniform at 26.75 %. This means that, for low wages, this amount is often higher than that of normal wages and generally higher than what is due at the time of the final settlement, so that a refund is made after enrolment. We are aware that every euro makes a difference for a low-income family. That is why I asked my administration to examine some of the slopes, with special attention to the low incomes. We are well advanced in this respect. I propose, for example, that a differentiated scale be applied according to the monthly wage. In this way, the lowest wages will significantly improve on the basis of the amount they receive immediately, so that they do not have to be compensated afterwards, as would be the case today. Any adjustments to the scales are theoretically possible, but practical feasibility must also be taken into account. The benefit institutions and the RVA do not always have the necessary data and IT applications in order to be able to apply the company tax more tailor-made. My cabinet as well as the cabinet of the Minister of Work is currently in consultation with the RVA and the benefit institutions to examine the possibilities of a number of slopes. However, there can be no question of creating negative impacts reserving bad surprises next year, due to a professional discount held too low. This could happen by legitimately trying to help those who are receiving a professional discount that will ultimately be too high in relation to their overall income. I have already spoken to Mr Gilkinet several times about this problem. Finally, from a fiscal point of view, we are prepared to do so. This is perfectly achievable by following a kind of slippery ladder. The difficulty, as I have already mentioned, is now on the side of the ONEM and the payment institutions. Minister Muylle is currently examining the practical aspect of the situation. I am very much in favour of achieving this, but today it is rather a enforcement problem than a tax problem. Mr Ravyts, that is how I come to your question about the corona premium for workers during the corona crisis. You indicated it yourself, the premium does not fall within my competence, the tax exemption does. When all the authorities responsible for the staff of the care sector reach agreement on a premium, I am absolutely prepared to allow a tax exemption from that premium. I stress that all governments must agree on this. As you know, care is spread across different governments. It would be very difficult for people who work in care and depend on the federal government to receive a premium and those who depend on the Communities not. There are people who work in very difficult conditions today in the hospitals. There are also people who work today in very difficult conditions in the residential care centres. I have repeatedly urged the various governments to try to reach an agreement. People have no message of which government they depend on, but they do have a message of support in their backs. I would also like to provide for an exemption for premiums that employers outside the care sector would grant to workers who have continued to work when a clear framework can be created for this. Once again, the creation of such a framework is not within my competence. In the meantime, the government has already decided to allow workers in critical sectors to perform 220 voluntary overtime until June 2020. The draft law, which will be on the agenda of the Finance Committee tomorrow, contains a provision which exempts 120 voluntary overtime without an overtime allowance from income tax. The Council of Ministers approved on Saturday a draft royal decree which also provides for an exemption from social security contributions. This draft royal decree was submitted to the Council of State for its opinion. For any additional holidays for workers who have remained on the job, please refer to my colleague, Mr Muylle, who is responsible for employment. Mr Matheï, you asked a question about frontier workers. This question was asked last week, but I assume you asked it again to know where we stand in the meantime. Negotiations are under way with the Netherlands and Germany on the application of double taxation agreements to workers who are obliged to work from home under the COOVID-19 measures. Indeed, agreements have already been reached with France on the application of the double taxation convention to home working days during the COOVID-19 crisis. However, these agreements only concern residents of France who are currently covered by the special frontier regime. For the other workers working at home who normally work cross-border, both for the inhabitants of France who are not covered by the special frontier regime and for the inhabitants of Belgium, the intention is that we should agree on the same arrangement as the one currently being negotiated with the Netherlands and Germany. A similar agreement has also been agreed with the Luxembourg authorities. This agreement will clarify the communication on homework and the COOVID-19 crisis published on the FPS Finance website on 13 March 2020. The agreements with all these countries are intended to be similar. As has already been said, we expect to reach an agreement soon, which I will certainly tell you. As far as taxation is concerned, Mr Bertels and Mr Ben Accour had a question about the telephone help with the tax return. These questions were asked by Messrs. Bertels and Ben Achour. All employees of the "individual" administration, i.e. nearly 2,000 agents, will be assigned to help taxpayers covered by the new scheme. Strengthenings of other FPS Finance administrations are also planned, particularly for appointment-making. These tasks can indeed be carried out by teleworking, so as to avoid unnecessary exposure of employees to risks. Technically, a strengthening of the telephone system has been planned in order to cope with the considerable increase in calls. However, I would like to point out that this is a completely new procedure, which has proved complex to implement within a limited period of time, given the imminence of the reporting period. My administration will do its utmost to ensure that this telephone help is done in the best possible way, but it cannot exclude the fact that, despite the precautions taken, telephone lines are saturated if too many citizens contact the administration simultaneously. As the usual reporting deadlines have not changed to date, there should be no impact on enrolments or, consequently, on repayment periods. Returning to a paper mandate, I believe, is not an option. They are issued only under very strict conditions, i.e. when the citizen is a protected person and is represented by a provisional administrator or when the administrator has no eID, E Card or F Card. MyMinfin gives access to the entire tax file of the taxable person, i.e. to real estate, payroll sheets, leases, payments and refunds. Most proxy holders do not have access to this. There are many safety risks in the sitting days, both for taxpayers and for employees. In the past, we have often noticed that a lot of people are coming along, but that was not really necessary. The phased telephone system avoids the security risks and nevertheless provides the taxpayers with sufficient guarantee of assistance. Taxpayers who often need our help are not really trained by telephone. Therefore, in the current context, the option to dial and share the screen electronically was not prevented. Taxpayers who can do this are usually able to find their way through Tax-on-web. We are setting up an unseen operation here to help people who need it to report their taxes. I think everyone understands that doing this in person today is absolutely not appropriate. Everyone has to do exceptional business today. I'm also asking my administration to do that. I hope that those who ask for help will also be prepared to take advantage of the opportunities we offer. With regard to Mr Matheï's question on the early repayment of personal income tax, the reduction of the execution period to two months after receipt of the tax bill was not yet considered. Since the outbreak of the crisis, however, absolute priority has been given to establishing the remaining refunds for the 2019 attack year. In April, therefore, only returns were established and no taxes to be paid in 2019. A total of 3,586,707 refunds were made for this tax year, or 98% of the total volume to be processed. By the end of this month 166,896 refunds will be paid. The remaining 412.263 refunds will be paid at the scheduled time, of which 350,000 will be paid at the end of May. Operationally, the execution of tax refunds takes time because of the necessary investigations for correctness, debt compensation and the treatment of special circumstances such as death, separation, failure, etc. Adapting the implementation deadlines requires legal analysis, operational reorganisation and far-reaching IT developments. In view of the advanced stage of the collection for the 2019 attack year, no such intervention is justified at this stage. In the longer term, the reduction in the execution period from two months to, for example, one month can be considered, but as a structural measure to reward the beneficiary citizen's compliant behaviour. I come to the questions about the functioning of the DAVO during the economic crisis caused by COOVID-19 pandemics. To answer the questions of Mrs Thémont and Mr Gilkinet, I would like first of all to point out that SECAL intervenes for all types of families. It therefore does not limit its intervention to single-parent families alone. As far as recovery is concerned, SECAL is already operating under the universal system for all maintenance creditors. For the granting of advances for the benefit of children, a condition of income does exist. The current ceiling is €2,200 net monthly, an increase of €70 per dependent child or €140 per dependent child with a disability. During the period 1 January 2020, the date of entry into force of this ceiling, to date, therefore including the onset of the coronavirus crisis, a significant increase in applications has not been observed. Moreover, the budgetary consequences of the new ceiling combined with the consequences of the coronavirus situation are not yet visible. It seems to me better to assess the situation and needs after some time and first use the federal budget for other measures that could also benefit single-parent families. To date, there has been no significant increase in requests for advances compared to normal. The impact of the coronavirus crisis will probably be visible from the second half of May. The SECAL integrated into various departments of the General Administration of Perception and Recovery has sufficient human resources, even though the work to process applications for intervention and renewals of advances is currently carried out at home. Although the information centres are closed for physical visits, applicants can always submit their applications online or by post. The payment of advances is automatically extended for a period of six months. Beneficiaries must therefore not apply for renewal. This can alleviate the difficulties that might be encountered in gathering the necessary documents and supporting documents from institutions or organizations that are currently closed or with limited accessibility. This also helps to avoid movement. As far as the budget is concerned, SECAL has never faced a payment problem. For the year 2020, a budget of EUR 34.4 million is foreseen, i.e. EUR 5 million or 17% in addition to the amount paid to beneficiaries in 2019. Many questions have already been asked about the charter of the banking sector, and I can imagine that a lot of questions will be asked about this. Then I come to Mrs Dierick's question. Payment delays in the Febelfin charter are granted for the repayment of the capital raised and not for the capital not yet included. If the full amount is not yet recognised, a reservation commission is charged to the non-recorded funds. It is essentially a remuneration for keeping the funds at the bank's disposal. Therefore, this is different from the file costs or administrative costs that are indeed not charged, as agreed in the charter. According to the sector, it is rare to charge a reservation commission because existing loans are often fully drawn-up loans that are already fully in the repayment phase and therefore can benefit from a total deferment of repayment of capital. Moreover, a delay in payment will usually be requested earlier for fully drawn appropriations, as the repayment phase in most cases will only start when the loan has been fully drawn up. It is therefore only in a very limited number of cases when a reservation commission is charged. This commission is essentially comparable to an interest rate, but for the undrawn capital. As agreed in the charter, this interest is still due. The second pillar is the State guarantee scheme. The report to the King expressly states that the credit institution may charge the borrower an annual interest rate of up to 1.25 % and that only the remuneration paid to the State may be charged to the borrower, provided that the credit institution may, of course, still charge the borrower the ordinary costs such as the file costs or the reservation fees. The possibility to charge a reservation commission is also highly dependent on the type of product you are talking about. This cannot be done, for example, in the case of cash credits or in the case of withdrawals. In the majority of cases, especially for guarantee loans, the borrower will immediately withdraw the credit in full and a reservation fee will not be considered in any case. Mr Ben Accour and Mr De Vuyst had questions about the distribution of dividends. Last week, the example of Denmark was mentioned several times. As I said in plenary last week, I certainly did not need the example of Denmark to take this kind of action. I am rather pleased to see that Denmark has the same reasoning as ours, but Denmark was not the inspiration in this respect. However, certain fundamental balances must be ensured. For example, when it comes to tax havens, we must be aware of the fact that there are bona fide companies carrying out a real activity in a tax haven. We must therefore be careful that if we do not operate in a sufficiently sophisticated and nuanced manner, certain Belgian companies would be penalised. I agree that companies with business reasons should not be excluded from aid measures. It therefore seems logical to me that we should allow companies which have activities which they regard as bona fide activities in certain countries listed on tax havens to demonstrate that these are bona fide activities. That seems to me to be a criterion that can be used. As you know, we have a draft law on advance payments, to which I have attached a number of conditions. The first condition is that, between 12 March and 31 December 2020, no dividend payments, no purchase of own shares and no reduction in own funds should be made in order to make use of the flexibility that we want to offer in the area of advance payments. I will also add conditions with regard to tax havens. Those conditions will apply to the parent and subsidiary companies of these companies. This means that companies with, for example, significant shareholders established in tax havens or subsidiaries established in tax havens are subject to these conditions. One last element is that we must also take account of economic reality, for example when talking about a condition of employment. The world will look different after corona than before. In certain sectors there will be a smaller market and demand for products may have changed. This can have an impact on the company's turnover. If we want to save jobs and avoid failures as much as possible, companies must have the opportunity to adapt to a new reality. Otherwise, the damage could be even greater than in a first phase. Finally, as far as the French proposal is concerned, it is limited to companies with a balance sheet of more than EUR 20 million or a turnover of more than EUR 40 million, i.e. the threshold for the definition of the average undertaking within the meaning of the European Directive of 26 June 2013 on the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings. The French Government has done so because it does not want to discourage shareholdership by the general public. You know that in our country too, one of the major challenges is to reduce the amount of money put on the savings books and to make more money available directly to companies in the form of financing, for example through equity, which we will also take into account. Mr Leysen, Mr Gilkinet, Mr Bertels and Mr Loones asked questions about the operation of the guarantee scheme and its follow-up. As has been said several times, we must at all costs prevent companies and self-employed people most affected by the current crisis from falling out of business as borrowers. The first part of the agreement, namely the delay in payment in the Febelfin charter, which entered into force on 1 April, has already been the subject of figures, which I announced in committee COOVID-19 yesterday. During the first three weeks of April, 96 000 company loans were deferred. At the same time, the banks also delayed payment of 66,000 mortgage loans. In total, therefore, over 160,000 appropriations were postponed during that three-week period. In my view, that shows that the delay is working. Questions are asked about the conditions attached thereto. I'd like to talk to you about that. The fact that we see in practice that more than 160,000 appropriations have already been postponed means that this system does indeed work. The charter we agreed with the sector was therefore the right method. Banks also inform me that they are still expecting applications, because we have agreed that the delay is six months anyway, even if the delay was not included in April. As regards the second aspect of the agreement, namely the EUR 50 billion state guarantee, the Royal Decree of which was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 15 April 2020, the agreement of 22 March 2020 explicitly provides for the establishment of a mechanism to monitor the guarantee system and, more generally, the financing of non-financial companies and independents. This mechanism established by the National Bank, in consultation with the Treasury and Febelfin, covers three aspects. First, the evolution of loans to enterprises by bank, by type of enterprise (large, SME or independent) and by sector of activity. Secondly, the evolution of credit applications to banks and the percentage of applications accepted, refused or withdrawn by the bank and by type of business. Thirdly, the evolution of the guarantee credits and the moratoriums actually granted by the banks. As regards the first and third aspects, i.e. the development of loans to enterprises and, in particular, the guarantees and moratoria granted by banks, the first consolidated figures for the sector will be available during the first week of May. As for the second aspect, the first figures will in turn be available in the third week of May. As soon as I receive the first results of this monitoring, I will inform Parliament about it, as we have discussed several times in this committee. If, on the basis of experience, certain sectors or activities are excluded, I am prepared to examine additional initiatives, as we have also discussed here. Mr Matheï and Mr De Vuyst asked questions about the State guarantee scheme. The granting of a guarantee is automatic when a credit falls within the terms of the Royal Decree. It is up to the bank to verify whether the credit meets the necessary conditions, which do not fundamentally differ from the normal conditions of a bank to grant credit to an undertaking. The bank also has the possibility to remove a limited number of credits from the guaranteed portfolio on a monthly basis. This option is based on the observation that not all companies have been impacted by the corona crisis. As to how this works in practice, it depends on the credit application system used by the bank. For some, the credit request can be made online if you are already a customer of the bank. Any application for credit from a financial institution shall entail administrative procedures in accordance with the code of conduct between banks and companies in the context of the granting of credit. Banks must continue to carry out their risk analysis. It may be considered that any application from a company or an independent person is subject to a personalized examination by the bank. Each file is different. For a good risk analysis, therefore, it is necessary to be tailor-made. Self-employed persons and companies who believe that they have been wrongly refused credit may first contact the bank. That's a first step. They can also contact the call centre of the FSMA, which was recently set up for this purpose, or at Febelfin, which has created a central hotline specifically for the corona measures. Any complaints may, as always, also be made to Ombudsfin, the financial services ombudsdienst, for non-binding advice. As has been said, we must wait for the results of the monitoring. If the evaluation reveals that certain activities or sectors are excluded, I am certainly prepared to examine the need for additional initiatives. Many banks have already put in place a guarantee scheme. The European Commission supports them through a temporary framework on state aid to support the economy due to the current COOVID-19 crisis. Belgium has opted for the provision of a State guarantee between 1 April 2020 and 30 September on short-term credits of up to 12 months, taking into account various policy objectives. The aim was to meet the worst liquidity needs. The duration of up to 12 months was not limited in the European legal framework. It is too early at the moment to determine whether the State guarantee is sufficiently large in terms of maturity. We have different methods of monitoring. If it turns out that an adjustment is necessary, I am certainly prepared to do so. Then I come to the questions put by Mr Bertels and Mr Ravyts on the financing plan for the federal government. For April 2020, the Treasury assumes a net balance to be financed, i.e. an increase in the net government debt, of EUR 2.49 billion, while for that month a negative balance, i.e. a decrease in the net government debt, of EUR 6.57 billion, was expected earlier. This gives a difference of EUR 9 billion in the evolution of net government debt. Before you claim that this is a dramatic derailment of EUR 9 billion, which is largely due to the postponement of the fiscal and parafiscal contributions to which the government has decided. So, of course, we have a temporary increase in the need for funding, but that will then be compensated, it is not a delay. Prior to the publication of the new financing plan, the Belgian Debt Agency had already taken and communicated a number of measures. A third new OLO loan was announced and three additional dates for the OLO procurement were set. The agency had already stopped buying back the loans that expired in 2023 in order to reduce financing needs and had planned new and larger Treasury certificate issuances. Meanwhile, the Agency has launched the third new OLO loan, amounting to EUR 8 billion. An additional OLO tender was also scheduled for May 18th. The procurement of Treasury certificates of 7 April 2020 also yielded much more than originally planned. As you can see, our country has no difficulty in obtaining funding today. The Federal Debt Agency is in regular contact with, among other things, the National Bank of Belgium to closely monitor financing needs. If necessary, additional OLOs of cash certificates or an invitation to tender may still be issued. With the auction of 20 April, which raised EUR 2.84 billion and the financing already achieved, the Agency has already raised EUR 25.57 billion in long-term financing, equivalent to 56.39 % of the new target of EUR 45.35 billion. It appears that the Agency is successfully achieving this new annual target. I therefore believe that it could, if necessary, raise even more long-term financing. In order to meet even greater funding needs, more short-term funding can also be raised, perhaps mainly. The funding plan published makes only partial use of this opportunity. The issue of cash certificates has thus been increased by only €6 billion on an annual basis. I also, of course, support the possibility of funding through European instruments, to supplement or replace the instruments mentioned in the Agency's financing plan. At present, the precise conditions for loans through European initiatives are not yet known. As soon as they are known, I will look at the conditions attached to them, especially those relating to remuneration. If the outcome of the evolution is positive, I do not rule out the fact that the federal government will use these European instruments. I thought I made a mistake, but it's about the next question. Then I come to the questions about the cost of the measures relating to the corona crisis of Mr Matheï and Mr De Vuyst. The first step is to absorb an economic shock through public finances by means of automatic stabilisers. A negative economic shock results in lower tax and parafiscal receipts, higher unemployment benefits and consequently a deterioration of the balance. It has been said on several occasions that the automatic stabilisers in our country are very large. All kinds of systems act as stabilisers, including the temporary unemployment system and the right of bridging. It is assumed in our country that the cost of the budget balance is 0.6% per percent deterioration of GDP, so 1% delay is 0.6% deterioration of our budget balance. In addition, the various authorities in Belgium have taken numerous measures since the onset of the coronavirus crisis to compensate for the socio-economic effects of this crisis. The draft stability programme, which is currently being finalised, talks for the federal government about a budgetary cost of the measures taken to the tune of EUR 6.4 billion, including EUR 3.6 billion in volume effects on temporary unemployment. Temporary unemployment is not free. That's obvious. For the common government, this would amount to EUR 10.2 billion in 2020, i.e. 2.3 % of GDP. In any case, I suggest that you address yourself to the Minister for the Budget, who will be able to give you more information on this matter. It is essential that they are one-off expenditures. If we get back to work at some point, part of the expenditure may become structural if there is a significant slowdown in growth, but with the exit strategy we use, we aim to ensure the safe health of the population without any structural costs. In my sphere of competence, I can only tell you that there will normally not really be a budgetary cost or that it is uncertain. As far as tax measures are concerned, these are mainly carry-overs of payments. All taxes will therefore be paid, certainly on a deferred basis. Of course, based on this year's actual payments, a permanent update will be required. With regard to the guarantee scheme for banks and credit insurers, it would be premature to make a budget estimate. It will depend on the actual losses incurred. We are discussing a bill here tomorrow that gives companies extra flexibility in advance payments. Finally, I am also working on measures to strengthen the solvency of companies. However, it is still too early to give details. I'll come to the questions about the catering industry. I spoke about this late in the night and said that it would be a marathon for this sector because the hospitality industry is being hit very hard. We have already taken a lot of general support measures for businesses that also benefit the catering industry. We are currently examining, in consultation with ERMG, what additional support measures should be taken. My cabinet has had several discussions with the catering and events sector, which also shares the blows. I note that additional measures are quite specific to the sectors affected. Understandably, the companies concerned would like to be clear about the aid they can expect, but it is still too early to make concrete statements because we are still measuring the damage. We need to discuss all this with the sector in order to propose appropriate measures. Then there is the reinsurance programme for the credit insurers. Experience has shown us that in times of crisis, the damage to credit insurers increases sharply. Indeed, the impact on the real economy leads to late payments by companies that cause damage to credit insurance. Credit insurers traditionally reacted to this by reducing credit lines, causing economic uncertainty and reduced trade. The VOCID-19 crisis is likely to have an even greater impact on the real economy than the financial crisis. In order to avoid the need for insurance companies to reduce their line of credit – which would have a negative economic impact – the National Bank of Belgium, Finance, Economy and Foreign Trade Ministers have been working with the sector. At the end of the consultation between the competent ministers, the National Bank of Belgium, the sector and Credendo drew up an agreement. Lines of credit will not be reduced linearly. The sector will largely assume the first losses and the State will gradually intervene to a greater extent for the higher losses. The protocol distributes premiums and damages according to different discs of loss. It looks at the ratio of losses on premiums at the level of the portfolio of insurance undertakings, also called the loss ratio. If the loss ratio is less than 100 %, the losses and premiums will be paid to Credendo for 50 %. If the loss ratio is between 100 % and 300 %, the losses and premiums will be paid for 80 % in respect of the part above 100 %. If the loss ratio is between 300 % and 1,000 %, the losses and premiums will be paid for 90 % in respect of the part above 300 %. The intervention of Credendo and thus ultimately the State is limited to 1,000 % of the loss ratio. Future losses are quite uncertain and depend on the impact of the VOCID-19 crisis on the economy. However, it is possible to define scenarios based on loss ratios. With a loss ratio of 100 %, this means that the sector bears a loss of 20 million euros and Credendo bears the same amount. At a loss ratio of 300 % this means that the sector carries 81 million euros and Credendo 189 million euros. The maximum loss by the State is at a loss ratio of 1,000 %, with the sector bearing a loss of 172 million euros and Credendo 903.21 million euros. The question of the solvency of companies by Mr Bertels and Mr Matheï. I also refer to my reply in last week's Finance Committee, 21 April. We are looking at what fiscal measures are best taken, among other things, to avoid solvency problems in companies as much as possible. It takes into account the number of employees that the company has, but also the impact that bankruptcy can have on other companies and on stakeholders. The preservation of decision-making centres in our country is also an important element. As with the measures which adjust the percentages for calculating the increase due to no or insufficient advance payments and which will be discussed in committee tomorrow, conditions will be attached to this aid. Then there are a number of questions about Europe, the European package and support measures by Mr Bayet and Mr Matheï. I believe that the agreement of my fellow Finance Ministers and myself, concluded in the Eurogroup, including its format on 9 April, is unambiguous. It states that Member States wishing to use the relevant ESM credit lines should undertake to use them only to finance the direct and indirect costs of health care, as well as costs arising from the COOVID-19 crisis for healing and prevention. For example, the costs may include infrastructure and hospital equipment, the purchase of all kinds of protective clothing, specific equipment for the treatment of COVID-19 patients and the purchase of medicines. It is clear that this is not, therefore, a cost related to the economic aspects of the COOVID-19 pandemic. This does not therefore include costs of re-launching the economy, temporary employment systems and financial support to economic sectors. It will ultimately be sent to the Board of Directors of the ESM to specify its exact scope when a Member State wishes to make effective use of this instrument. The European Commission was also asked by the European Council of 23 April to implement the plans for a reconstruction fund, including in the framework of the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. The European Commission will present a first draft in the coming weeks on the basis of the orientation of the European Council with a view to rapid adoption. The financing of such a recovery plan is of course very important and will have a major influence on the impact of the plan. Various ideas are circulating in this regard. As you know, some Member States want to set up a system of joint debt issuance, an option that encounters a lot of resistance. Another option is funding through the European multiannual budget. There are several options for financing it, such as a temporary increase in Member States' contributions, Member States' guarantees or an increase in own resources through an allocation of revenue of the European tax or European budget type. These are possibilities. No decision has been taken and we know that there are very different positions between European countries. So we cannot go into the details yet. Finally, our country has always believed that the impact of this crisis is very high and that there is a need for an ambitious reconstruction strategy. That means we shouldn't go back to business as usual. I believe that lessons must be learned from this crisis, that we must make greater efforts to develop strategic autonomy and resilience. In this context, it is important to ensure that this is not written to the wishes of some Member States alone. Our country wants priority attention to be given to the Green Deal and to the digital transition and to the need to focus on cohesion and the common agricultural policy. Mr Loones asked a question about the creation of a European bath bank. Neither I nor my services are aware of the possibility of setting up a so-called European bath bank. Nor have I heard of such a discussion between the ECB and the European Commission. There is therefore no concrete proposal at present. So I can't respond to it, or I can only say that I don't know about it. It is also unclear whether existing bath banks, such as Dexia, would be included in such a structure. Mr Vandenbroucke asked about the financial situation of Brussels Airlines. On 17 March, Brussels Airlines sent a letter to the Prime Minister asking for a bridging loan of EUR 200 million. That question was transferred to the Economic Risk Management Group. The sub-group of large companies within ERMG decided to create a task force of aviation, led by the FPIM, to pool, analyse and submit all questions from the sector to the government. A first report on Brussels Arlines was sent on 7 April 2020 to the Prime Minister's strategic unit, to mine and to the Minister of Employment, Economy and Consumers. Contacts were held between the European Transport Task Force and Brussels Airlines management on 5 and 10 April to analyse Brussels Airlines' demand for support and business plan. The aid application increased from EUR 200 million to EUR 290 million. On Monday, 20 April, the European Transport Task Force and the new Co-Chair of SN Airholding's Board of Directors, Jan Smets, had an exchange. On 27 and 31 March and on 3, 8, 15, 17 and 21 April there were also calls between FPIM and the management of Lufthansa and Brussels Airlines. The task force has been asked to carry out an in-depth analysis of the aid application first. The task force will discuss this with the management of Brussels Airlines and Lufthansa. If, on the basis of that analysis, the Government decides to grant aid to Brussels Airlines, the conditions under which it will have to do so will be determined. This will have to be negotiated with Lufthansa, which owns 100% of Brussels Airlines. This will have to take into account aspects such as employment, climate and other societal objectives. If there is a need for funding, with EUR 290 million now, it seems logical to me that this question cannot be put to the Belgian authorities alone. If there is to be some form of financing, it seems logical to me that some of that funding should come from other bodies, for example Lufthansa's current shareholders. It is essential for the government that if aid were to be provided, you will hear me say this in the conditional sense, employment would be protected to the maximum and that a clear future would be offered to Brussels Airlines in order to be able to grow again as a home carrier of Belgium after the crisis and to develop a crucial link between Brussels as an international hub. The choice of instruments to provide support, if this happens, will be in function of what is most appropriate and of the way that gives us the most guarantee that these commitments can be respected. Mr Vanbesien asked a question about the exit strategy of the FPS Finance and the controls of the general administration of Fisc and the BBI. A proposal for exit strategy was first discussed on Friday 24 April on the Management Committee and will be followed up on the Management Committee on 30 April. On Wednesday, a proposal of exit strategy from the FPS Health will also be made, in order to streamline the decisions of the FPS. So until now and until further notice, the FPS Finance adheres to the rule of maximum telework, just like other federal institutions. With regard to the use of personal protective equipment on the work floor, in particular mouth masks, the National Security Council guidelines will be followed with minimum obligation to wear a mouth mask when a distance of 1.5 metres, the supposedly safe distance, cannot be guaranteed. With regard to the use of mouth masks in contact with the public, only our customs officers currently have direct contact with third parties without always being able to respect the 1.5 meters. They have enough mouth masks to enable them to continue to perform their duties now and in the future. Since the start of the lockdown, the General Administration of Taxation has ensured the proper functioning of its services by establishing the taxes for which it is competent within the statutory time limits and avoiding any risk of limitation. All tax controls were temporarily suspended in order, if necessary, to gradually resume in view of the evolution of this corona crisis. The adapted organisation of the work ensures continuity of activities and takes account of employees and taxpayers. Since the start of the lockdown, the general administration of the BBI has also suspended non-essential controls. Physical checks may still be carried out if the interests of the Treasury are at risk and if urgent measures are required. Thanks to telework and the digital applications, the BBI remains perfectly operational. The General Administration of Taxation and the BBI are now preparing a common note on the control strategy to be followed after the restart of normal activities. In the first instance, cases will be addressed that are most urgent, for example if the interests of the Treasury are at risk, inter alia, by statute of limitations, criminal-related files or unlawful returns. Of course, the health of control agents and taxpayers will be given the utmost importance. All the precautions now known will be strictly respected. Mr. De Smet, Graydon is a private study office. Neither my firm nor my administration own the studies that this office publishes. The bankruptcy issues are the responsibility of Nathalie Muylle, Minister of Employment, Economy and Consumer Affairs. With regard to the measures envisaged by the Government and the RMG to support businesses, those which will be implemented will normally be implemented within a framework authorised by the European Commission. That's it, Madam President, for a first round of answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u21	Minister, we thank you for these very specific answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u22	Minister, as we all know, the cultural and entertainment sectors have been seriously affected by the corona crisis. You are referring to the extension of the six-month period. That is something, but it is very brief as a contribution that could be made. Mr Piedboeuf mentioned funds that could be transferred to other projects. There is also the possibility to issue the certificates on the money that has already been spent separately, so that it is not lost either. We are discussing it tomorrow in the framework of the draft law, but many possibilities have not yet been exploited in that draft. We will have to have an in-depth discussion on this tomorrow so that we can prevent the production houses simply from being able to stand up to it. As with many other companies, there is a great deal of concern in this sector too. I therefore invite you to continue this discussion tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u23	As Mrs Dierick is no longer here, I give the floor to Mr Bertels.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u24	Mr. Secretary, I would like to raise three points. Firstly, with regard to the need for financing, as explained by the Debt Agency and in close consultation with, among other things, the National Bank, I remember your suggestion that we should also look at the Minister for the Budget. We have already discussed this in committee, Madam President-in-Office, in order to examine the budgetary implications, not the need for funding, also in the light of today's report by the High Council of Finance. I remember that you, with a sympathetic eye, I assume, look at possible European funding options if the conditions are precise, clear enough and positive, if I understand correctly. Secondly, we have spoken a few times about the National Bank's monitoring tool. I am glad that there are different categories in that so that we can refine by size of company, by sector, by type of company. That's good, but it would be nice if we could see the tool in its framework. I also expect you to make available to Parliament the tool and information contained in it, the first part of it at the beginning of May and the second part of it in the third week of May, so that we can see what is happening on the ground. After all, we are getting various signals from the field. I also know that the first signals that are coming are never positive signals, but those signals are there. We must therefore also assess the amplifier and its scope in relation to the postponement of EUR 66 000 to EUR 96 000 already granted. Thirdly, Minister, the telephone reception you are installing for helping taxpayers in completing their annual tax bill is certainly an operation that deserves respect. However, I must say that the reception does not fully meet the needs on the ground. I meet people every day who ask me if I can't help them fill out their tax bill because they don't get wise. I also know that they haven't filled out their tax returns themselves in the last ten years. However, there is a need on the ground. They won't get through with just a telephone reception. It is therefore necessary to consider how the needs in the field can be better met for those for whom the completion of the tax letter is literally and figuratively too complicated and who fail to fill in the letter correctly. It's not about malice or unwillingness. It's just too complicated sometimes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u25	Madam President, Minister, I would like to say very briefly that it is a good thing that the figures on the impact of the bank guarantee will be available in a first disc at the beginning of May 2020, i.e. next week, and that the second disc will follow two weeks later. It is also good to hear that you reaffirm that, if the legislation is to be updated, you are open to the debate. I would like to repeat my question, which has just been mentioned by Mr Jan Bertels. It would be good if Parliament could take a step forward and have access to the tool itself. Please explain which parameters the tool contains. We would also like to check this yourself and look at the structure of the tool. If the tool can be delivered, we would be very grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u26	Madam President, I am sorry, but I am also a member of the Social Affairs Committee. It's complicated to follow two commissions at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u27	Here we're asking for 100% attention!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u28	I'll do my best, Minister. I would like to point out that the debate in which we are participating is constructive, and I would like to thank you for listening, Minister. As part of my reply, I would like to speak on five points. The first relates to the professional discount. Your approach to differentiating the discount based on the amount of income, on the understanding that this is a question of capped income since it is unemployment benefits and income that will be paid for one or two months, is a problem for me. You seem to be afraid of a refund, two years later, at the time of the tax calculation, for some workers. I propose that you apply the same discount rate to all workers because, in doing so, it will benefit those workers whose incomes are lowest and who need it the most. Perhaps in two years, some will have to make a tax refund, but it is not catastrophic especially if they are notified. If it is this element that blocks the implementation of a solution for which there is a political agreement between you and your colleague, Mrs Muylle, a linear measure is required The next unemployment benefits will be paid on Friday. The decision must therefore be taken today or, at the latest, tomorrow. I propose that you proceed simply by applying a 10% reduction in the professional discount rate from 26 % to 16 %. It is the simplest and most effective way to avoid overburdening those who have to pay. Some taxpayers may have to make a tax refund in two years' time, but help those who need it most. In my opinion, this is the easiest solution. My second point relates to SECAL. I hear that at this stage you have not seen any increase in demand, which I welcome. But I really ask you to be attentive to developments, because socio-economic problems are expected to arise in the coming months. Thirdly, with regard to the aid requested by Sabena or rather SN Brussels Airlines – indeed, Sabena no longer exists; let us draw lessons from the past – to the SFPI, I hear you opening up so that in case of aid, the latter is conditional on commitments in terms of employment, climate, etc. I understand that other airlines elsewhere in Europe are seeking state aid. Now is the time or never to change the model to achieve an aviation that is less environmentally problematic, but also in terms of flying hours and the impact it can have on sleep – I am thinking in particular of Brussels and Brussels. You may have an opportunity to seize. But if it is a refinancing without commitment from them and without commitment from Lufthansa, it would be a real problem. Another point, Minister. I really invite you to pay attention, with the SFPI, to the other companies that would be in need of refinancing. Finally, on the European level, I have heard you well that we must have a break from the past and that it is not a matter of restarting the business as usual. I fully agree with you in principle and look forward to concrete action by the government, particularly in support of initiatives taken by other countries on the Green Deal or the pooling of debts and means of refinancing our economy. That will be very necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u29	I understand, Minister, that the negotiations on frontier workers are ongoing and that news is to be expected soon. Quite a few people are waiting for that. You pointed out, in connection with the exit strategy, that both health and the economy must be protected, that the costs currently being incurred are mainly non-structural and that, as far as finance is concerned, it is mainly about deferment of payment. However, I would like to call for an investigation into the possibility of speeding up the reimbursement of personal taxes. It does not prohibit any additional costs, but it does require an effort and some technicality. In this way, tax obligations are much more quickly paid back a certain amount, with which they may be able to spend. This in turn strengthens the start-up of the economy. That can only benefit the whole. Finally, I note that the State guarantee is being properly followed up, and I am satisfied with that, especially if we can look into the monitoring and give our opinion on the 12 months and other measures in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u30	Minister, you have confirmed that you are working on measures. I cannot thank you for a comprehensive answer, since you want to be discreet in this matter; indeed, you pointed out its importance for decision-making centres and strategic sectors. May I remind you that our SME landscape meets both criteria, namely decision-making centres and strategically important ones? In today's circumstances, the large companies in particular are getting through well and SMEs are having a difficult time. For me, it is important to consider what can and can be done during this period of power of attorney by a government in a very specific situation. I would argue that we in this House should also consider a worthy successor to the Cooreman-De Clerq Act. We must be aware that a strong landscape of SMEs, in which companies with sound capital structures are promoted, is essential. In terms of liquidity, the necessary measures were taken, but the banks will certainly continue to play their role and take into account the capital structure. I'm looking forward to what's coming. Colleagues, I would also like to call on you to work on what you will achieve in due course, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u31	Minister, thank you for your answers to all the questions. That was very interesting. I now turn to the tax shelter on which we have returned. With all the work already done and with the announcement of the circular, we have a good part of the answers, in any case on the transfer of files and on the expenses already incurred. There is still the question of ceilings. I had tabled a bill on the relative ceilings. This does not seem to be possible immediately. But, as far as absolute ceilings are concerned, it is important to do something. If we have to table a bill, minister, you have seen that a number of colleagues are on the subject. We could very well put forward a proposal which, I have no doubt, would reach consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u32	I understand that you need to be very careful about the taxpayers' money that you would possibly make available to keep Brussels Airlines up. You're looking at Germany and Lufthansa's shareholders. You are talking about the anchoring of employment and growth opportunities. The context is far from obvious. On the one hand, we already know that the impact on aviation will be immense. There are few sectors where the corona crisis has such an impact. No one knows how long it'll last. On the other hand, Brussels Airlines is reported to be out of cash by the end of May. Is there only discussion about the modalities of aid and possible conditions, or is there really also the slope on the table that there will be no aid at all and Brussels Airlines will either go bankrupt or become a small appendix to the Lufthansa group due to the many cuts?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u33	Minister, you are responsible for tax exemptions. We live in a difficult time. For the government, dancing is on a weak cord, but one has to be careful with communication and you have communicated. Some in this country, who like to celebrate next Friday 1 May, in the most traditional way, are not immediately engaged in economic growth, which you mentioned. There must be a balance with sufficient economic growth if we are all to avoid the cost becoming too structural. I would also like to thank you for your explanation of the reinsurance programme. The sector should certainly not complain, to say the least. We'll follow up on the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u34	Minister, thank you. I would just like some clarification. I understand that you are working on the ground from a technical point of view with regard to the temporary unemployed and the retention of the occupational allowance. It is now important to land and have a real timetable, reflecting on measures to support household disposable income. In general, this is done by means of taxation: by taking fewer professional prepayments, by granting prepayment exemptions or by making tax reductions. Having said that, we must remember that we are facing an emergency. That is why disposable income must be able to be returned quickly to people. It would be wise to look at the need for a direct injection of disposable income in order to boost the economy. Of course, this must be done in a targeted manner within an agreed budgetary framework, so as to restore momentum to support domestic demand, because an economy works on two legs. I fully understand that we have focused on businesses – and we have accompanied the movement – by relieving their cash flow with payment carryovers. All of this is obviously indispensable. However, it must also be possible to say that they need a sustained demand. This is why we need to consider how we can more directly support the disposable income of households, especially those suffering from the coronavirus crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I'm not replicating everything, because we'll be here tomorrow, and the chairman wouldn't allow that. We are pleasantly surprised and even enthusiastic that you agree with our proposal to define tax avoidance. If I have understood you correctly, it also means that companies that can demonstrate that they can benefit from aid in countries known as tax havens. Companies which have a seat there, but cannot prove it, cannot rely on it. For once, we agree, that's fine. If I understand correctly, you will add this as a condition to the draft law tomorrow. You can spare yourself that effort, because the Labour Party has tabled an amendment which takes back what you have just said. You might just be able to support that tomorrow. You could not answer a number of questions, for example in terms of detailed figures, for which all understanding. We are certainly in happy expectation and very curious about the figures. Once they're there, we'll study them. I have put a number of questions to which I do not think you have answered, unless I am mistaken. I am referring specifically to the one-off, solidarity coronatak on multimillionaires that our party has proposed. That is the path to ensure that the most wealthy in our country make a fair contribution to closing the coronaput. Nor have I heard you say what other fiscal fiscal slopes, such as savings, you are investigating or considering filling the deficit afterwards. Finally, I have also asked you whether you will apply Articles 19 and 25 of the Royal Decree on State Guarantee and whether banks that do not give any delay or credit to those eligible will effectively lose their State Guarantee, if you see that. Perhaps you could answer that for a moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. Fraudsters and cheaters are familiar with the widely known expression never washed a good crisis. The fact that fewer or even no controls will be carried out can give some people ideas. Look at the sport. Athletes are now asking themselves to organise doping checks as soon as possible, because they know that some will be tempted in a period without control. Hence the call for physical checks to be restarted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u37	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you and I take note of your response not to communicate Graydon's study. We will therefore ask the Minister of Employment about bankruptcies and state aid, we will remain vigilant and we will wait for Europe's position on all business support measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u38	Madam President, Minister, today is on the front page of De Tijd that companies are getting ready for redundancies. The social secretariats are currently receiving a lot of questions about redundancies which may take place in the future. That message is definitely a sign on the wall. When the health aspect of coronation is behind us, its economic aspect will have a particularly strong impact on our economy. Last week you said that we are currently working on a number of short-term measures which are indeed necessary and which we have always supported. However, I think that the longer we look at the medium-term, the more the economic crisis will emerge. In view of this, we have looked at what has been done in recent years. Until 31 December 2019, small companies were able to benefit from an increased investment deduction. From 1 January 2020, the investment deduction fell to 8%. It was a temporary measure which applied for two years and was then phased out again. With this increased investment deduction, companies were encouraged to invest in their business, which ensured that the necessary investments took place. In the coming period, we believe that investment by companies should not fall back. It would be particularly bad if a lot of companies stopped their investments now. These are uncertain times and many companies are currently considering putting their investments on hold indefinitely. This must be avoided, and we must ensure that the investment wave does not stop. We therefore believe that it is necessary for Parliament to make it possible for companies to continue to be encouraged to invest. In this connection, Minister, we wonder whether you have considered with the government, as one of the possible measures, whether the increased investment deduction that existed over the past two years can at least be considered again. It is a question of whether you have already taken the necessary initiatives for the temporary reintroduction of that investment deduction for natural persons and companies complying with the definition of small companies, so that they can re-apply the increased investment deduction. We believe that this is necessary, especially for SMEs. As you know, Flanders is known for the structure of SMEs. We must, therefore, ensure that those small businesses which are in danger of being affected continue to invest in their businesses. If investment remains possible and encouraged, it will be in favour of employment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u39	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, thank you for your interplay. The situation of companies today is evolving. The first problem was liquidity. For the liquidity problems, we have taken a number of measures, which I have also mentioned in my reply to your previous interview. Temporary unemployment, of course, is helping, as is the postponement of taxes, a very large volume of debt and the postponement of financing costs. We are now moving on to a next stage, in which a number of companies will have solvency problems. As I have indicated, I am currently looking at a number of measures, including fiscal measures, to address these solvency problems. At some point, we will take the turn out of the crisis. At that time, we will have to look at how we can support companies in re-launching their activity. Investing is one element in this. Staff could be another element. Working capital could also be an element. We're not there today. You cite one example, namely the increased investment deduction for SMEs, which was a good measure, but which no longer exists. I will not comment on whether this is the measure we need. At the moment when the economy needs to be re-launched, it will not be a single measure but a broad plan of measures. These measures will be part of my domain, but will certainly also be part of my colleagues' domain. They will often also be the responsibility of other governments. It is therefore difficult for me to comment on the proposal you are making on the investment deduction. Will we have to take measures to support investment? I'm sure that's worth considering. However, it is too early for me to comment on what measure that will be right. As you know, the exit plan was explained last Friday. That will be the main element for me. For the majority of companies, the phasing out of the exit plan is more important today than one or the other tax measure we can take because turnover is still the best form of financing a company can get. We know that the exit plan depends on the evolution of the pandemic. In the end, we have that in our own hands. Today we can talk about an exit plan because the vast majority of us have complied very well with the rules. If we manage to keep doing so in the coming days, we will be able to implement the steps of the exit plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u40	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your reply, but I am somewhat disappointed. You say it's too soon. I understand that we first had the problem of the liquidity of the companies, that the next stage is indeed the solvency and that we should then take the turn out of the crisis, but I do not think we should wait so long to put forward solutions to further encourage investment in our companies. You should not forget that if investment stops, a large proportion of employment will also cease. We all know that a lot of companies will not get out of this crisis without tears, but we also know that a number of companies will not survive this crisis, which will cause a great deal of employment to be lost. You say that it is difficult for you to express your opinion on this today and that turnover is the best form of financing. Turnover is indeed important, but if investment continues, it also creates turnover for many businesses and jobs that are necessary. We must not wait for a solution, but we must now move forward and think two steps forward to protect our businesses and SMEs. In this sense, we have tabled a motion for a recommendation in which we ask the government to take the necessary measures for the temporary introduction of an increased investment deduction for natural persons, but also for companies which comply with the definition of small companies to make such necessary investments, with the additional condition that this applies to investments and investment goods originating in their own country. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is particularly important that when we encourage investment, it is investment in products manufactured in our country, so that we can make full use of our jobs and guarantee them. That's not unimportant. As far as we are concerned, this increased investment deduction may be re-implemented. After all, we must bear in mind that investment is an important fuel for our economy, regardless of any temporary measures on liquidity and solvency that are being taken. We must not take the turn out of the crisis the day after tomorrow, which is what we must start with today. We will never be too early to take the necessary measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u41	Madam President, Minister, you spoke of first things first. I think you were right to point out that we have to work in two stages. First, measures that can be taken must be taken. These are liquidity and possibly accompanying measures. Then we can move on to phase two. That is why I have tabled a simple motion so that you can focus all your energy on stage 1, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u42	Madam President, Mr Leysen, I find it extremely strange. They say we should focus on phase one. That is all true, but we are still able to multitask. We can perfectly run different phases parallel to each other. One doesn't rule out the other. This government is doing more than just liquidity and saving solvency. By the way, I had an interplay on that last week. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now move forward. We need to protect our businesses. We must ensure that these companies do not go under. The economy must therefore continue to operate. We must ensure that these necessary investments by our companies are not postponed and put off, because then it is too late. Minister, if the order book of our companies goes empty, then there will be no turnover, on which you say it is the best form of financing. Then one will ensure that the other conditions are not met. We regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-04-28-55-commissie-ic161x.u43	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mr Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the reply of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Finance, responsible for the fight against tax fraud and Minister for Development Cooperation, - having regard to the economic damage caused by the health crisis, - having regard to the measures taken by the Government to guide companies through the crisis in the short term; - whereas a strong economic crisis jeopardises the chances of the survival of a large number of companies and in particular SMEs; - whereas investment is an important fuel for keeping our economy running; - considering that a large number of companies will place investments on hold, which means a further negative impact on our economy and employment; - whereas a public incentive will motivate SMEs more quickly not to postpone investment; - whereas preference should be given to investments which have their origins in their own country in order to maximise the protection of their own employment; calls on the Government to take the necessary measures to temporarily re-establish an increased investment deduction for natural persons and companies complying with the definition of small company for investments originating in their own country." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Mr. Reccino Van Lommel and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Mr Reccino Van Lommel and the response of the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance, responsible for combating tax fraud and Minister for Development Cooperation, - having regard to the economic damage suffered as a result of the health crisis; - in view of the measures taken by the government to help businesses cope with this crisis in the short term; - Whereas an intense economic crisis threatens the chances of the survival of many companies, and in particular those of SMEs; - Whereas investment is an important driver of our economy; - Whereas many companies will suspend their investments, which will have an additional negative impact on our economy and employment; - Whereas a public policy incentive will make it easier for SMEs not to postpone their investment; Whereas priority must be given to investments originating in our own country with a view to preserving employment as much as possible; calls on the government to take the necessary steps to temporarily reintroduce an increased deduction for investment in favour of natural persons and enterprises that meet the definition of a small company, for investments originating in our own country." A simple motion was tabled by Mr Christian Leysen. A simple motion was tabled by Christian Leysen. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
