ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u1	Minister, making our train traffic more attractive again was the reason why several parties decided together to give every Belgian the chance to discover or rediscover the train. With this measure we can also encourage tourism in our own country. The number of applications during the first hours and days shows how hard the Belgians were waiting for such a positive measure. However, I remain hungry as regards the solutions to support vulnerable people, for whom applying for a ticket online is a high threshold. The Support Office for Combating Poverty issued an opinion with a number of concrete suggestions. In the meantime, in response to that opinion, SNCB contacted the municipal and OCMW authorities with a view to specifically promoting the action with that target group and providing support. However, the support centre went further with a number of proposals. For example, the Support Point proposes to automatically send the ticket to people in poverty. Inmates who are no longer coming home at the moment also wonder how they can receive their tickets. Minister, how many requests for a free rail pass have been made so far? What measures will you or will SNCB take to ensure that people in vulnerable situations can also benefit from the measure? What do you think of the proposed measures in the opinion of the Support Office for Combating Poverty? What does SNCB think of these proposals? Were you and SNCB already in conversation with the Centre for Combating Poverty?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u2	Minister, the Railpass made available to all Belgian residents is one of the flagship measures to support the tourism sector and the Horeca in Belgium. It is also a way to allow Belgians to breathe after a confinement that was heavy to bear. I am thinking above all of the families forced to live, during confinement, in confined spaces and who, for lack of means or because of the red zones, have not been able to afford a holiday abroad. Families for whom to spend a day at the sea or in the Ardennes is a real air bubble that meets an urgent psychosocial need. We knew that this measure could not be implemented overnight for technical reasons. However, we learn that it is now unilaterally postponed to 5 October for health reasons. This is a disappointment because this decision does not take into account the family emergencies I have just mentioned. Minister, why was it not envisaged, in order to avoid mass influxes of passengers, to gradually allocate Railpasses, starting with families with the lowest incomes? Do you not fear that by unilaterally delaying this allocation, we would further widen the gap between citizens and public transport, a gap already begun by the VOCID pandemic? Finally, as some associations and my colleague point out, the fact that Railpass is only available online prevents people with literacy difficulties from benefiting from it. Does SNCB intend to offer alternatives for this population that is more at risk of exclusion?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my question about free train tickets being distributed is now partly obsolete. So I will confine myself to what is still relevant. In the light of the corona crisis, the supercore has decided to give each Belgian ten free train tickets. As mentioned above, this was a social measure to promote domestic tourism and public transport. The plan came from Green and turned out to be unsubstantiated. No consultations had been held with SNCB. In a later phase the plan was postponed and then adapted to twelve free train tickets on request for each Belgian. During the summer we saw full trains to Blankenberge and we are dealing with a revival of the coronavirus. What is the estimated cost of the entire action? How does the Minister guarantee the safety of users/train passengers, who often do not have the habit or skill to take the train, in the light of rising corona figures? Will compensation also be given to those who do not benefit from receiving free train tickets, such as SNCB staff, who already drive for free, or ticket holders? If so, how might they be compensated? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u4	Mr President, Minister, the story of the free train pass has often been discussed here. The original idea was to promote tourism and give the tourism sector an extra boost through the summer holidays. The vacation's over by now. The action was postponed until after the summer because of the hustle and bustle. The plan was then postponed a second time. The introduction is now planned at the beginning of October. It goes without saying that by then the tourist season will be over. The high season has long passed, along with the summer. There is a great opportunity to strengthen tourism. What is the objective of that free train ticket, given the late timing? Does this need to strengthen tourism? Is that still an efficient measure, in your opinion? Has there been a change in the planned budget? In May and June, when this measure was first mentioned, the Minister responsible for the budget said that EUR 110 million was earmarked for this purpose. We are now so many months and a number of revisions. Is that amount gonna stand? In your answer to a previous question on this matter, you were not able to clarify it. I'm sure you've been able to get that information by now. So I would like to make that clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u5	Mr President, Minister, among the measures put in place to support the economy in the context of the coronavirus crisis, it was decided on 6 June to grant a free Railpass of 12 trips. After several postponements, this Railpass is finally available. It is intended for all residents of Belgium over the age of 12. It will consist of twelve nominative routes and will be valid for six months from 5 October 2020. Those wishing to receive a Railpass have until September 31 to apply on the Hello-Belgium site. There is no possibility of making this request in writing. It is therefore mandatory to have internet access in order to achieve this. Minister, this will have to be supported by someone. Who, then, will bear the final cost? Are there budget estimates? I guess she's been evaluated financially. The Railpass is valid for six months from 5 October. I do not understand this rigidity especially since the number of journeys on the rail will be determined by the climatic conditions and that episodes like that of the summer when everyone decides to join the coast or the Ardennes at the same time are probable. What will happen then? Have any decisions been made in this regard? Which ones? What measures have been taken by SNCB to ensure that health conditions are met even in the event of a high influx? Why not extend the validity of this Railpass until August 31, 2020? It is unacceptable that the form to be completed to obtain the Railpass is only available on the Internet. Why is this form not available at the counters or on request by telephone? In my opinion, it would be important for some people to be able to enjoy it in this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u6	Minister, many have already said it, but in the meantime I think that almost two million Belgians have requested 12 free rides. In fact, this proves that free public transport is very popular with the people. But the reality surrounding the coronavirus is catching up with us again and a new outbreak of the virus seems to be in the making, now, or in a few weeks or months. That's why I have a few questions. How many applications have been submitted to date? How many applications does SNCB intend to receive by the end of 30 September 2020? Is there a plan on the table to adjust the validity of the free rail pass in case of a new corona peak? We see that SNCB has been running advertisements regarding the application for the rail pass. What campaigns have SNCB launched for this, both online and offline? Do these campaigns have any effect? Which of these are the target groups? What budget has SNCB earmarked for this purpose? Finally, a remark which many of my fellow Members have already mentioned, and which we also mentioned last time. Many citizens but also poverty and other associations had responded to the application procedure, especially for people who are not well equipped with computers. Is there a phone number these people can use? We've tried it out and often it takes a very long time to get someone on the phone. How often does the SNCB helpline get called? In what circumstances can people be helped by telephone?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u7	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to express my relief at the completion of the Hello Belgium Railpass, which, after the various postponements this summer, met with a great success: 500,000 orders in the first 24 hours; 1.5 million after a week. We can see that Belgians want to get back on the train and regain confidence in public transport, which is a good thing both for SNCB and for the planet. Compared to the order terms, the returns I have are quite unanimous on the fact that the website is fairly easy to use and sufficiently clear. Nevertheless, a lot of people report bugs from the app. I guess it's because of too many simultaneous commands. Will it be possible for those people who would prove that they have tried to order it and who have not received it to be able to benefit from it anyway because there is a lot of concern about it? Ordering by telephone is possible. However, the number that is being set up is more of an information number that initially refers to the website before actually allowing the Railpass to be ordered. This would allow people with a digital divide to order it over the phone. It would therefore be good to make the ergonomics of this number a little easier. Has any contact been made with actors working with people in precarious situations, with digital divides or who are illiterate in order to invite them to communicate this offer to their audiences and to accompany them in their efforts? Finally, in connection with the bugs that the app knows, I fear that many people do not think of ordering their passes before September 30 and that there are many disappointments. Would it be possible to extend the order date since the pass is usable until March? I do not think it would be foolish to allow a little more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u8	Minister, the inhabitants of Belgium have another week's chance to apply for the free 12-way ticket. This measure should support SNCB as well as promote tourism and also offer the opportunity for people in a difficult financial situation to use the train, which often has too high a cost for them. That is why it is all the more important that these people find their way to the Railpass, because it is not always easy for some people. The web form may be a threshold for people with little digital resources or experience or it may also be that they do not have access to the information. SNCB has proactively contacted both the OMCWs and the organisations providing assistance to support vulnerable people who would find it difficult to make the application. There is also a special telephone number for people who do not have the internet or who are having trouble filling out the online form. I have a number of questions on this, Minister. What initiatives has SNCB taken to announce the Hello Belgium Railpass specifically for people who are not active online and for people in poverty? Does SNCB have any idea how successful these initiatives are? How many OMCWs and organisations have actually started working on this? How many applications were submitted via the special telephone number? Have many requests been made over the last few days by telephone? The Railpass can be requested until 30 September. Do you consider it necessary to possibly extend this application period specifically for people in poverty in order to give them an additional opportunity to submit an application? Why is that, or why not? The impact of corona is also very heavy for SNCB. Can you frame the financial impact of this measure in the financial needs of SNCB as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u9	Mr President, since 31 August and until 30 September, any resident of our country over 12 years old can apply for the Hello Belgium Railpass, the free ticket with 12 train journeys. The objective of the measure is to encourage Belgians to take the train to discover or rediscover our beautiful country and all its facets or to make any travel to choose. I would like to add that initially ten – five times two – trips were planned from August onwards. A first decision to postpone to 6 September was taken at the request of the National Security Council (NSC), following the incidents in Blankenberge. I then proposed, as a compensatory measure, to add two journeys, giving a total of twelve journeys. Subsequently, in the course of September, the CNS decided unanimously to postpone the implementation of the free Railpass until 5 October. Between 5 October and the end of March, two train journeys can be made each month in their own country. The paper pass is sent by post to the address indicated in the national register. To avoid a massive influx during the current corona crisis it is not possible to obtain the pass at the station counter. SNCB wants to do everything in its power to give everyone the opportunity to go out with this Railpass in the coming months. More than 2.3 million applications were already dealt with on 21 September. All details about the Hello Belgium Railpass and the Terms of Use can be found at www.hello-belgium.be. The Railpass can request online, via a form on the website www.hello-belgium.be. SNCB realizes that not everyone is familiar with online applications. Therefore, there is a special telephone number for those who can use help filling out the web form or who do not have online access. In addition, SNCB has made contact with CPAS or municipalities, in order to indicate the existence of usable telephone call forms instead of online booking. SNCB considers it important that those who benefit most from the free pass do not fall out of the boat. On 21 September, SNCB was able to provide assistance almost 44,000 times via that channel. 99.7 % of the questions could be answered. Mrs Schlitz, you mentioned the fact that some people encounter difficulties in obtaining the Railpass. In this case, they should be advised to reconnect and reformulate an application. If the application is denied, their first application is valid and properly registered and they will receive their Railpass. If the second request is accepted, this means that there was a small problem with the first request but, in 95% of cases, the first request is sufficient to obtain the ticket. SNCB also took the initiative to contact the municipalities and OMCWs, as well as the associations supporting precarious groups, in order to reach out to more people who are having difficulty with the application. They can help their residents if they use their national registry number. The impact on ticket sales is estimated at EUR 100 million. As I announced in the committee on 15 July, an equivalent amount was requested under the second tranche of the coronavirus provision by the Minister of Budget to finance part of the free Railpass. The purpose of the SNCB advertising campaign is to encourage residents to apply for their free Railpass on hello-belgium or by telephone and to support the tourist, cultural, recreational and commercial sectors (shopping and horeca). To do this, it invites the rediscovery of the whole of Belgium by train – more than 500 destinations in Belgium. The target of this campaign is all residents of Belgium over 15 years of age. The communication campaign uses offline channels (radio, display) as well as online channels (bannering, search advertising and social). SNCB has also widely used its own channels: screens, stations, train, sono, Metro newspaper, e-mail, website. Finally, an effort was made to obtain an important relay via the press. Three waves are planned: September, October and December. Of course, September is to remember to order your ticket; October and December will be to reactivate the desire to travel for those who have requested the Railpass. The cost of these campaigns will be between EUR 1.5 million and EUR 2.2 million. The success of the first wave of this campaign is already demonstrated by the number of free Railpass applications. As regards the question concerning the use of languages in the application for the free Railpass, SNCB is obliged, in accordance with the language legislation, to provide only a French, French and German version of the application procedure. From goodwill we also provide for an English-language application procedure. The language in which the transport passes are printed is laid down in Articles 41 and 42 of the language legislation. One of the three languages in which the private person has served is used for the ticket delivered. For a procedure in English it is indeed correct that the French version is delivered. If English speakers wish to receive a Dutch or German version because this language is more powerful, that is perfectly possible. It is sufficient to opt for the application procedure in this language. SNCB considers that it respects the obligations arising from language legislation in this way. There is no plan to extend the intended validity of the Railpass. The rail passes are valid from 5 October 2020 until 31 March 2021. The Royal Decree provides that the validity of the card shall not be extended in the event of a pandemic, infrastructure work, strike or force majeure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply, as usual.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. The Hello Belgium Railpass is a success. The first 24 hours after the launch there were half a million applications. A week and a half later that was a million and a half and now you just tell us that 2.3 million applications for the Hello Belgium Railpass have already been made. Let's be clear. Belgium was looking forward to a positive measure. In this way, I believe that we can once again make people enthusiastic about public transport, a sector that has also had to deal with the current corona crisis. Let it not be an end. Let us work on safe trains, which are the subject of the next actua debate, but also of punctual, comfortable trains, so that we can continue the trend with which we warm people up for public transport. Nevertheless, I would also like to launch a call here to ensure that no additional thresholds are created for people in vulnerable positions, for example people without digital access. We need to find a way of directly granting the social benefits to those who need them, without having to go through an administrative mess. Let me end by saying that there is a happy Member here after hearing the number of 2.3 million applications for the Hello Belgium Railpass.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u12	Minister, thank you for all these details and details about the procedure. I'm going to have to listen again to what's planned for people who are precarised or, in any case, people who have trouble using the Internet. Indeed, I have the impression, indeed, that it is again part of this population that will be left out. I hope, however, that these people will be able to benefit from this Railpass.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. One of my questions concerned the cost of this initiative. You have given the prize of the communication campaign that SNCB has launched for this purpose, from EUR 1.5 million to EUR 2 million, but there is, of course, also the cost of designing the digital platforms, of designing and manning the telephone exchange and of the loss of revenue from ticket sales. I haven't heard any figures on that. It therefore seems to me that we should stick to the previously communicated figure of EUR 110 million, as reported by your fellow Minister for Budget Clarinval. I would like to take this opportunity to respond to the Green colleagues who praise the free Railpass and say that 2 million tickets were distributed, that this is a formidable success, and something that the Belgians longed for. I doubt that. In a country where a working man has to give more than half of his income to the State and where more than one fifth of his expenditure goes to the State, it is only natural that he takes the crumbs that fall off the table with both hands. I can understand that. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are on the corner of the street tomorrow with a large sign saying that you are handing out free petrol cans, I think you will also get a few million candidates. To conclude with the big conclusion that the Belgian is longing for public transport and that this shows that there is a strong support for additional funding of the trains, I dare to doubt that. For the amount of EUR 110 million, we could have taken much better and much more effective measures to support tourism and strengthen public transport. Two diesel lines could have been electrified for this amount. That would have been another measure to strengthen public transport and the environment in that country. For this price, additional platforms could have been increased in order to improve accessibility. This would have been a much better measure for the elderly, for people with reduced mobility or for wheelchair users. This could have made our rail transport much more attractive in the long term than this one-off measure. We all know that the money is gone and yet we are also spending another large amount of money for which the State is allowed to lend again. It's Jan with the hat idiot who will pay double and fat afterwards through his tax bill. I still don't think this is a good initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u15	I thank the minister for his very thorough answer. I also thank him for the good organization of the information campaign so that every citizen has the information necessary to have access to this Railpass. I find the budget charge relatively high: one hundred million! I didn't expect that much. It really needs to be used to make it very useful and effective for the economy as a whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u16	Minister, we also welcome the measure. It is good that people can drive cheaply by public transport. If it's up to us, it may be even cheaper to use public transport. We therefore want this to be further developed. Low-cost and strong public transport is very important for people and for our climate. We therefore hope that you will take further account of the comments about the group of vulnerable people who have difficulty in accessing those tickets. However, in that context, I have seen a lot of beautiful things about people being helped by other people and organisations to apply for those tickets.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u17	Minister, thank you for your particularly comprehensive answer. The Railpass is a great success, in addition to other actions at both the federal and Wallonia levels, which offer households a bonus of 80 euros to spend in the local tourism sector. Last weekend, I went to the citizens' meeting as part of Mobility Week. We offered to those who had not yet ordered their Railpass to help them do so, and advised them that applications should be submitted before September 30th. We have had a lot of positive feedback in this regard. More than half of the people I met had already ordered their Railpass, while others said they did it later. When we asked these people about the destination they would choose, many said they wanted to visit Ghent. The Flemish cities are in fact listed in Liège. We were pleased to see that people who do not often have the opportunity to travel to Belgium would be able to afford an air bubble by making an excursion thanks to this Railpass. This is therefore an excellent boost for many households that do not always have the opportunity to enjoy themselves. We will therefore continue to support such measures and will remain attentive to their use, so that it will benefit everyone in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is indeed a considerable amount, so I hope that a maximum number of Belgian citizens will find their way, especially those for whom a train ticket is often too expensive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u19	Minister, COOVID-19 is not gone, nor will it disappear in the coming months. We have to learn to live with the virus. However, I did get a little angry in the summer. Trains canceled, the free train tickets postponed, all those measures taken ad hoc looked a bit like panic football. I think it is necessary to take real structural measures to reduce the risk of infection on trains, but they are not. I hear very little about structural measures. When I hear that some trains left last summer with an occupation of more than 100 %, I wonder if SNCB takes this sufficiently seriously. However, it is in its own advantage to ensure that confidence in the train as a means of transport increases again, also in the coming period. I therefore wonder what additional measures the SNCB can take. We've talked about this on a regular basis. Several colleagues have already made suggestions. What is the average capacity utilisation rate of trains at the moment? Is it true that there have been trains with more than 100 % occupancy in the last few months? What will SNCB do to better protect the healthy distance of its passengers? Will the upper limit of 80% occupancy be maintained? Is it possible to spread passengers sufficiently on the train with this upper limit? What additional measures will SNCB take to cope with the crowds on trains to and from student cities? Will additional capacity be released? Will there be extra supervision at the student cities' stations so that crowding up on platforms and on trains can be avoided? Several companies that design rolling stock for train companies now offer updates to make train sets more coronaproof. For example, doors could be opened free of touch, trash cans could be opened without touching, air conditioning systems could be adapted. What additional measures will SNCB take for its youngest train? Can such additional adjustments be added to the M7 order?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u20	Minister, summer is over. Education has resumed its activities, and the economy in most companies has now, thank God. The colleges and universities also started this week. The effect is already seen at peak hours on trains. On several lines it is again busier in the trains and on the platforms. Indeed, there are already lines on which capacity is again exceeded. What additional measures has SNCB taken in recent weeks and months to organise train traffic more safely with a view to the resumption of education? On which lines and connections does SNCB expect additional public health problems due to the hustle and bustle? What lines have the capacity not been sufficient in the past few weeks and months? What additional measures have already been taken there? How were the problems in the stations and on certain lines assessed during the summer? What initiatives have been taken to avoid repetition? Which stations do not provide sufficient space to guarantee the social distance of one and a half metres? Did a screening of that happen? What are the results of that? Are there any circulation measures in the stations and on the stairs to the platforms? I don't think so. Why is that? When did SNCB last receive advice from our health experts? What were the recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u21	Madame Hanus could not be present to ask her question. I call Mr Van den Bergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u22	Mr President, Minister, I have a question about higher education. They make every effort to ensure that the lessons are corona-safe. For example, there will also be lectures in the evenings and weekends, in order to spread the number of students present as much as possible. Of course, this is not evident for commuting students, as the timetable for public transport is not provided for. In several student cities hardly any trains or buses leave the surrounding municipalities after 10 p.m. This applies, among other things, to Leuven, Hasselt and Mechelen. On a number of railway lines, such as Kortrijk-Brugge, Ghent-Mechelen, Ghent-Aalst or Hasselt-Landen, after a lesson that ends at 10 p.m., there is also no train to be found home, especially if you first have to take a tram or bus to the station. This is also the case in my region, the Kempen, namely in Turnhout. Those who have to go home by train, tram or bus after class will unfortunately not get home. Has there been a consultation to see how SNCB can respond to the changed question of students? Has an analysis been carried out on the possible change in demand and bottlenecks in the evening? What measures would SNCB take? Then I also have a question about the SNCB app on which the hustle and bustle is displayed. I was very pleased with the launch of the new app. The level of traffic displayed shall be based on known data and shall be updated in real time by the train supervisor during the journey, taking into account the actual occupation of the train. In this way, SNCB tries, if possible, to ensure that its customers avoid peak hours and allow them to travel during off-peak hours. The app is not yet integrated into the existing SNCB app and therefore needs to be downloaded separately. For buying tickets, the existing app remains the chosen route. It is a transitional phase, because within a few months the route planner, the occupancy meter and the ticketing function would be integrated into the new app. The MoveSafe app was developed as part of the Innovation Lab, with the aim of integrating new technologies for customer service. Has the new app been successfully launched? How many people have already downloaded this app? Is this new app also used effectively by travellers? One of the goals was to spread the travelers better. Is this objective being monitored? If so, does SNCB notice an improvement in the distribution on the train? The integration of the app is important to reach passengers via a single platform. When is the further integration of the app scheduled? Which functions will be integrated? Can you also provide more information on the upcoming developments of the Innovation Lab? Meanwhile, STIB also launched a test app called MoveBrussels that integrates many sustainable transport resources in Brussels into one app. Does SNCB plan to integrate other sustainable means of transport, such as De Lijn?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u23	The questions of overwhelmed people have to be nuanced. In the week of 14 September, the average number of people employed at peaks was between 26% and 32%. Only 203 out of 3,500 trains had an occupation of more than 80%. The average number of travellers on one weekday in the period from 7 to 11 September was 551,000. So that's about 60% compared to a normal weekday for the health crisis. In the absence of a capacity shortage according to SNCB, there was no structural consultation with school organisations on additional student trains. I would remind you that SNCB is already putting in place a maximum offer of trains. In the current health situation, the train reaches its maximum occupancy rate when all seating positions are occupied. The train attendant will inform the passengers' dispatching, which in turn will notify the following stations, in order to communicate and find possible alternatives. Local SNCB staff will direct passengers to other trains. On board the train itself, the train attendants shall ensure a maximum distribution of passengers in the different cars. They communicate daily the number of travellers present so that SNCB can take operational action in the event of an excessive increase in the occupancy rate. Of course, it cannot be ruled out that in an incident the social distance can be less well respected. In this context, I would remind you of the decision by the government to require public transport to wear a mouth mask or any other alternative that allows to cover mouth and nose, including in the stations and on the platforms. What we can expect is that SNCB will help to avoid busy trains. That's what she did. She has speeded up her MoveSave app and has been available since 9 September 2020. It is therefore too early to draw conclusions about the use of the app. The information from the app allows travellers to take a train according to the hustle and bustle. The app should help ensure a better distribution of passengers across the different trains. This is a first version of the app, which will be improved based on feedback from a panel of testers and from customers via social media. The MoveSafe app is not yet integrated into the existing SNCB app. For the purchase of tickets, the existing app remains the chosen route. There is a transitional phase, because in a few months' time the route planner, the occupancy meter and the ticketing function will be integrated into a new app. The MoveSafe app was developed in the framework of the Innovation Lab, established within SNCB. The mobility sector is undergoing a profound transformation. New technologies and players come and customer needs evolve in terms of mobility, flexibility, connectivity, real-time and so on. SNCB wants to adapt to this evolution. In this context, the railway company has launched the Innovation Lab for several months, with the aim of integrating new technologies as a service to customers. The Innovation Lab team analyses new trends, tests new technologies and is working on the implementation of innovative projects that have a direct positive impact on SNCB's customers. As regards the question of air distribution systems, SNCB informs me that its vehicles are designed according to the European standards in force in order to achieve an optimal balance between the energy consumption of the system and the ergonomics, well-being and health of passengers. In addition, the High Health Council recommends a complete change of air every ten minutes, which is the case in all SNCB trains. The control and maintenance of the air treatment systems and the regular replacement of the filter elements shall be carried out in accordance with the rules in force with increased vigilance. Finally, all cleaning measures on the train are still being taken to prevent dust accumulation in the air distribution systems, among other things. All trains are completely disinfected every day at the first departure. More than 90% of SNCB's trains are further disinfected during the day.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive answer. It is indeed crucial that we restore people's confidence in public transport. That is why I am pleased to hear that SNCB is indeed making a number of efforts, as people point to the duty of mouth masking and the disinfection of trains. I'm also glad to hear that the app will become an integrated app. However, I believe that we must ensure that we can spread even better at busy times. These are measures that SNCB may be able to do even more research on, for example when it comes to students. Of course, we can also call on students not to leave at the same time. I believe that there are still steps to be taken in this respect. I am also pleased to hear that SNCB continues to focus on innovation and new technologies. I referred to it in my question. There are companies that have already developed new technologies to open the doors of the train sets without contact, for example. Finally, we can be attacked a thousand times as ecologists because we want to bet on reliable, safe and extensive public transport, but we will not fail to keep knocking on the same nail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u25	Minister, you say that the vast majority of trains do not have any capacity problems. I'd like to take that. The problem is, of course, with the few percentage points for which there are capacity problems. We all know that SNCB remains a congestion-sensitive organisation, susceptible to force majeure. It's just a matter of time before another train breaks down or a carriage gets in trouble during rush hour. Then the problem of congestion will manifest itself fully in our major stations. If something like this happens at peak hours, it is of course a considerable problem. It is precisely for those moments, which we know will be coming in the coming months, that SNCB must prepare itself. This applies to every organization and every company in our society. If you look at the average visitor numbers of a supermarket, that will not be so bad. But it is precisely for the busy moments that the existing measures need to be devised and taken. I note that my questions about the capacity surveys of the platforms and the stations in general remain unanswered. I have no doubt that SNCB did not conduct these investigations. In this respect, I see a particular contrast between SNCB as a public undertaking and the rest of society. The lockdown is now six months and four days ago, so more than half a year. Since then, the whole economy has reinvented itself with circulation measures, with adapted services, with one-way traffic in public buildings, often with strict supervision and associated fines. That's right. But what do we see at SNCB six months later? To date, the SNCB Directorate has no idea how many people are walking on the platforms of Brussels-Central or Ghent-Sint-Pieters. Circulation measures such as one step up and another down have been examined with difficulty, even after six months, while in the rest of society this has just become the standard. Two months after the invasion of the Ostend station, the SNCB Directorate does not even know how many people can be in a station at a safe distance. People just don't know. One simply did not bother to calculate the surface area and to align it with the number of people who can move at a safe distance. What has been going on in recent months? With the organisation of a free train ticket of 110 million euros. That's what they've been studying for three months. Well, Minister, I am beginning to question the priorities of this residual government. I don't think these are where they should be.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. Mr Roggeman, the efforts made by SNCB to manage everything and keep the equipment clean must not be underestimated or swept under the carpet. I can see that some things can be improved, but you are going a little crazy when you say that SNCB has done nothing in the last six months and four days. I'd like to apply that nuance anyway. Minister, you referred to last week's figures and in rush hour there was an occupation of between 26% and 32% on most trains. That surprises me somewhat, because that figure is very low. I had the feeling that we already have a slightly higher number of train users. That figure is also not good news for SNCB itself, whose finances are being put under further pressure. It is therefore a question of finding a balance between sufficient train users and respecting all health objectives. In the Netherlands, they sat around the table with employers' and business organisations and with the education world to see how the hours could be adjusted so that not everyone would have to use public transport at the same time. They wanted to widen the rush and spread the rush over several hours. I believe that this is a shortcoming in our country's policies so far. I had also specifically asked about the number of people who already use the MoveSafe app. However, I have not heard any figures. I can only assume that this is not yet possible. There is also little advertising for this separate Move Save app, so I think there is still some work to be done to encourage its use.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u27	Minister, thank you for these answers. A lot has been said. I also think that this application is in the right direction. There is a lot of work to be done in terms of raising awareness and coordinating schedules with the various sectors. Like Mr. As Van den Bergh rightly said, a dialogue must be established between companies and schools in order to manage all this. On the other hand, I did not get an answer to my question about the possibility of downgrading the first class in the event of overoccupation of the cars. I had already asked a similar question because I had had passenger returns according to which, while the second class cars were filled, the first class had not been downgraded. I was told that the attendant had the freedom to declassify a car for this reason. But I got back from that guy again. Filled second-class cars put health safety at risk, while first-class cars are empty. This is totally unacceptable! That sends a very bad message. I cannot allow a class case to be superior to the virus management. You really need to send a signal to train attendants so that the first class is downgraded as soon as a saturation threshold is reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u28	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I am pleased that the app has been launched in the meantime, but it is true that it still needs to be made known. Integration into the existing app or one integrated app can provide a solution. In addition, I am glad to hear that innovation is being used, but there is still work to be done. Measures are indeed being taken, but the passenger's confidence has certainly not yet been restored. Innovation and digitisation offer a huge opportunity. I therefore hope that that will be taken over by SNCB with two hands and that SNCB will be on the train of digitisation and innovation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u29	I therefore close our second topical and urgent debate. We will now begin the other usual questions. Questions Nos. 55007914C, 55007915C and 55007916C by Ms. Rohonyi are transformed into written questions. Mrs Schlitz, Mr. Ben Achour will be here in a few minutes. He sits on another commission. Would you agree that we move on to the next point? We will return to your attached questions shortly after.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u30	Mr President, I agree this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u31	Mrs. Hanus is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u32	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, every day an average of two train escorts are attacked. This ensures that train drivers were incompetent for a total of several thousands of days. Most of the time, female train escorts are the victims. Minister, are you aware of these figures? How can train guides better protect themselves from aggression? Securail is also too limited to tackle the perpetrators of aggression. Is there no possibility of giving Securail more resources when they need to intervene in a conflict? Despite the announcement that extra agents would be watching everything in the main stations, and that there would also be more supervision on the trains, violence and aggression on the train from Brussels to Ostend occurred on 12 August. The train escorts themselves are rightly afraid to intervene in cases of aggression or nuisance on the train. What specific initiatives will you take, possibly in conjunction with Mr De Crem, to prevent such violence in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u33	Mr President, Minister, over the past two weeks, various staff of the SNCB train escorts, station chiefs, Securail agents and maintenance staff have been victims of aggression. We strongly condemn these reprehensible acts and express our condolences to the victims, their families and colleagues. The railroads connect people. Aggression doesn't belong on the train, nor in the station. Nowhere. Physical or verbal aggression, both can sign someone for life and one cannot go lightly about this. Addressing aggression requires preventive and repressive measures. Repressive measures only address the consequences of a problem, and preventive measures also address the causes of a problem, and this calls for budgetary and human investment. Will the government's current and possibly future savings policy provide sufficient resources to enable the Belgian railways to tackle the problem and connect people in a safe and punctual way? Since the railway police are being phased out and local police are often used to intervene in cities and municipalities, the reasoning of the local authorities is that the railways have Securail. What's the situation at Securail? Are you going to strengthen Securail? What is the role of the railway police for you? In the meantime, can we detect certain risk lines and stations and is it possible to have several train supervisors working on certain at-risk trains? Is there any connection between the aggressions of the past few weeks and corona?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u34	Minister, 30 SNCB employees were attacked by malicious passers-by on the trains in just two weeks. This is not just a recent story because in 2019 there were as many as 409 aggressions against train drivers. This is on average more than one train attendant attacked every day in the performance of his duties. It is, of course, absolutely unacceptable that SNCB employees should fear for their safety and personal well-being in the exercise of their profession. It goes without saying that we must take measures to ensure that those people and other passengers and the public order on the trains and in and around the stations, to guarantee adequate security and to prosecute and punish violent and malicious civilians. Minister, what is your view on the possible approach to these acts of aggression? What additional measures do you intend to take with your colleagues in the government? What is the evolution of funding for Securail? How is cooperation between Securail and the railway police working to combat these incidents? How many of the cases of aggression are also prosecuted? What initiatives are you planning to take to combat aggression against train drivers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately in the news we have heard that thirty employees of the SNCB train escorts, station chiefs, Securail agents and maintenance staff have been the victims of aggression in the last two weeks. SNCB strongly condemns these acts and will take all initiatives to prosecute these acts of violence against its staff. SNCB has an action plan with more than 50 measures ranging from prevention to repression and aftercare. Some of the measures to which permanent priority is given are preventive training to deal with difficult situations, in which staff in contact with third parties learn to defuse risky situations and thus prevent further aggression. Securail agents are deployed on trains to assist train escorts in their checks and to intervene immediately in the event of conflicts. Staff are asked to report any verbal or physical aggression story, so that Securail and police can take targeted repressive actions on high-risk localisations. Within the curative section, victims of aggression can call on a fellow buddy, who is responsible for first-line support. If necessary, the victim can count on an intervention from a professional psychologist, both after and in the aftermath of the incident. Securail already has a number of powers today which make it possible to intervene adequately in the event of aggression. However, they cannot replace a police force. Giving Securail more skills would be tantamount to making it a police service, which neither the SNCB nor the government wants. Its primary purpose is to prevent nuisances and to intervene in commercial disputes in the rail sector. Both Securail and the police have their own added value. The possibility for a magistrate to impose a train ban on perpetrators of assault has existed in railway police legislation since 2004. The law reform in 2018 extended this measure to other perpetrators. Is there a direct relationship between the Corona crisis and the number of facts? Not in particular, except that, in at least two cases, travellers who had been aggressive towards the attendants had received the observation that they were not wearing the mask.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u36	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Unfortunately, it's reported, but they don't always do anything with it. There will be an urgent need for more protection for the staff, because they no longer feel safe on the train.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am convinced that we must work together to find additional initiatives to ensure safety on trains, in particular for those who are working with full power, passion and surrender on a daily basis to manage our railway company. It is absolutely unacceptable that they should be afraid of their safety in the performance of their duties. I look forward to looking with you to strengthen security measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u38	Minister, I do not think that the phasing out of the railway police is a good thing, because they can act much faster and more concretely. In the situation in Ath, people called the railroad police first. There was a police service near the railroad in Ath. Because they called first, it took a lot longer. There were three people seriously injured in Ath. A person, the cleaner, who does not belong to the company and who was going to help, was the hardest hit. I would like to ask that this person, who is not a national servant of SNCB, should also receive support. That woman's in a bad way. I really hope that we can continue to work on preventive care for the staff who take care of the travellers day in and day out. They must also be given proper protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u39	Minister, SNCB is at the service of all Belgians. Its missions, financed by the federal State, are of general interest. By allowing Belgians to travel at a lower cost, the SNCB divides the territories and gives meaning to the words "freedom of movement" – in particular, to families without cars. When SNCB reduces its supply of trains to the Coast, the families most affected are those with the lowest incomes and who depend on public transportation for a day of modest neighbourhoods and housing, especially after long confinement and in the heat of the heat. These are families that, when associated with African immigration, are already subject to security-related stigmatization. The decision to abolish trains must therefore be based on a real need, without creating any new discrimination on the basis of the origin or income of a population. However, the sequence that led to the reduction in the number of trains this summer raises questions. The first request was specifically aimed at prohibiting all tourists "of a day" for "security" reasons, without a relationship between the two being established. Unfounded and stigmatizing, it was rejected. A further request was made by the governor of the province of West Flanders to reduce the number of trains to the coast in mid-August "to limit the number of tourists by one day". This request was then accepted by SNCB and the federal government. Today, we have the right to ask ourselves what justified this decision. If the government justified this measure in terms of health risks, the demand came first from the local authorities who did not hide security and stigmatizing motivations. Minister, how and by whom have the limits of the number of day tourists per coastal station been established, and on what criteria? Were they based on health or safety considerations? Are there any limits on the number of day-long tourists to the coast who have travelled by road in parallel? Has SNCB suggested alternative destinations for the population? What do you think of the fact that this public affected by these restrictions is made up of people with modest incomes, who may legitimately feel stigmatized by security statements made by local authorities? I am now listening to your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u40	Mr President, a consultation was held on 11 August with all the partners concerned. By consensus, it emerged that in order to guarantee health security at this time of Corona, all the authorities concerned, governors and mayors in the first place, committed themselves to discouraging the population from going massively to the coast. In order to contribute to this commitment, SNCB undertook to limit its offer of trains to the Coast during the weekend of 15 and 16 August. From the 14th onwards, the offer was available and accessible to all via the SNCB travel planner and show me (?). On 17 August, under the direction of the Governor of Flanders, an operational evaluation was carried out. This showed that the supply of trains adapted to the coast had proved to be more than sufficient. The occupancy rate of all trains to the coast has indeed remained below 80 per cent. The following day, in a new consultation with all the partners, it was decided, as a safety measure, that the offer of trains to the Coast would again be limited the last weekend of school leave, with the possibility of adapting it if necessary. Everything went perfectly well in terms of the influx to the Belgian coast. Corona measurements were correctly observed by travellers and coastal tourists. The efforts of the authorities and SNCB have led to the expected results. Meanwhile, SNCB has also accelerated the availability of its MoveSafe app for its customers. It asks them to avoid peak hours as much as possible and to travel during off-peak hours. The MoveSafe app allows customers to view the occupancy of the selected train. The actual occupancy rate of a train is indicated according to the colour code, so that the passenger has the opportunity to choose another train that is less frequented, for example. The indicated occupancy rate is based on known data and is updated in real time by the train attendant during the journey based on actual train occupancy. I would like to point out to Mr. President that there have been no incidents at any station. I know that in one place, it was suggested to travellers to take the next train in half an hour's delay. Anyone who wanted to go to the sea was able to go, but people made the choice to go to other parts of the country when the influx was probably expected at the coast.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u41	Minister, thank you. I think you have understood the meaning of my question. I think we should avoid stigmatization. There is, for example, no limitation for road passengers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u42	On the roads, there are cars that have also been searched. There were checks at the same time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u43	Unless I am mistaken, I do not think you have answered this question, but I thank you for making it clear to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u44	This does not come under my jurisdiction, but mayors and governors had decided that, from a certain rate of occupation, they would ask for checks and refoulements, which was done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u45	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank my colleague for accepting this small change in the agenda. Mr Minister, while the construction site of the tram has resumed more beautiful after having experienced a slowdown due to the health crisis, other projects aimed at improving the intermodality of Liège are in latency. This is the case with the old train station in Place Vivegnis, in the heart of Saint-Léonard. The Belgian authorities have been calling for the reopening of a stop on this site for many years. The application is contained in the urban mobility plan of the district of Liège, adopted on 16 May 2019 by the Walloon government. Recently questioned by a Twitter user on this subject, SNCB, via its official account, recalled that the project was also included in the AnGeLiC study but that at this stage no detailed preliminary draft had been carried out within the operational directorates and that therefore there had been no decision by the management bodies so far. Located on the line linking the centre of Liège to Herstal and Liers, the stop would bring an obvious added value, all in a neighborhood in full revitalization, as demonstrated again last February by the inauguration of a bridge designed to connect Saint-Léonard with the Coteaux de la Citadelle and which crossed the railway at the height of the Place Vivegnis. Minister, do you confirm the information posted on Twitter? Nevertheless, can there be any prospects for the Liégeois to realize this idea? What about the possibility of setting up a stop in the Vennes, which is also part of the urban mobility plan of the arrondissement of Liège?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u46	Colleagues, SNCB recalls that its suburban offer also known as AnGeLiC, which was set up in the 2017 transport plan, is not an alternative to the existing public transport offer but a complementary offer, with the aim of offering a complete intermodal public transport offer. The evolution of the suburban offer in a future transport plan will be integrated, if necessary, in cooperation with the Region and the regional transport society if a global vision of the mobility nodes for the Region emerges. Although the stations of Vivegnis and Vennes were well studied in the framework of the AnGeLiC study, the reopenings have so far not been validated by the management bodies of the SNCB and no plans for reopening the station exist within the company in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u47	Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note of that. I regret that there is nothing more, nothing better as the actors of the city develop the visions that should be followed by effects to develop in particular the Liège Express Network and mobility which is a real problem for the Liegeians in the broad sense of the term. In any case, anyone who attends the city of Liège has mobility problems of which SNCB could be an actor in the solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u48	Minister, I also regret that this project is at a standstill. However, it is a missing link in the mobility of Liège that would allow to complete the REL or a suburban network as it is called. It is a stop point that has high potential in the heart of an area of 15,000 inhabitants for the time being highly enclaved. It would allow both opening up this area and allowing its inhabitants to move better. For SNCB, it would also be a way to get new travellers and new regulars. At no extra cost, I think it would really be a win-win project to implement. We will continue to question you on this file. I see that it skates and yet, the city of Liège is completely blocked with the work of the tram and the increase in the use of the private car. It is therefore really time to reverse the trend, especially with this type of project.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u49	Question No 55008163C by Mrs Ludivine Dedonder is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u50	Mr President, Minister, only 34.8% of rail passengers give the toilets on the train a seven out of ten. This is demonstrated by the report on the quality of the service provided by SNCB. Not only is the comfort and hygiene inadequate, they are also increasingly out of service. In one train on five there is at least one closed toilet. Nine percent of all train toilets are currently closed. This is an increase of 2.1 percent compared to last year. The same report also shows that the quality indices established by SNCB on cleanliness and technical quality are deteriorating. The corona measures helped to polish the trains more often and more thoroughly, which was necessary and positive, but structuralally these figures do indicate a problem. The comfort of the train must go up, if we want to seduce more people to leave the car and take the train. The basic requirement for comfort is hygiene, and this is a major task for SNCB. What is the cause of the increase in the number of out-of-service toilets? What measures does SNCB take to reduce the problem? Last summer, it was my very first committee meetings, a colleague asked about the toilet plan. That's when SNCB announced that plan. When can we expect this plan? What are the figures on the quality indices for the first semester of this year? What structural measures will SNCB take to improve the hygiene and maintenance of trains?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u51	Mrs Buyst, SNCB informs me that in 2019, as a preventive measure, she had to close a number of toilets to one type of motor sets due to premature ageing problems. One in two affected toilets is now again available to travellers. For the other toilets it is currently being studied which adaptation works are needed. It is clear that that measure had an impact on the figures relating to the availability of toilets in 2019. The rejuvenation of the fleet with the M7 double-deck carriages, on the one hand, and efficient maintenance, on the other hand, should ensure more comfortable and reliable toilets for passengers. SNCB reiterates that during this health crisis all procedures for the daily cleaning of trains and stations are strictly followed. Particular attention shall be paid to cleaning the surfaces with which passengers come into contact. The toilets in the stations are open and permanently equipped with soap. SNCB has made great efforts in this area and has also received praise from the travel organizations. The quality index for the first quarter of 2020 for the cleanliness of trains is 75.2 percent higher than last year's. In the period July-August 2020, 75% of customers scored 7 out of 10 for the cleanliness of trains. Fifty percent of travellers gave the same score for the cleanliness of the toilets. In the meantime, SNCB has also developed its strategic plan for the toilets in the stations. A concession contract service was chosen by means of a European market consultation. In view of the size of the project, SNCB expects to be able to conclude the negotiation and contract with the candidate concessionary in spring 2021. Afterwards, the concessionary will ensure a phased roll-out of the various installations throughout the country. In the meantime, the toilets in the stations remain open to the maximum and are cleaned very regularly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u52	It is, of course, good to hear that the quality index in 2020 is a lot better than the one in 2019 and that the corona crisis has made a difference. I do not think that we should only strive for clean trains during the COVID-19 crisis. It should have been the new normal for a long time. Several passengers have indeed already praised how beautiful the M7 carriages are, but there are still many lines that these trains cannot use. It is important that even where the M7 devices are not used there is sufficient comfort for the train passengers. For what we pay for a ticket, we can also get the necessary comfort.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u53	Minister, in Flanders, the possibility of charging SNCB bicycle parking is under consideration. This question does not really arise in Wallonia or Brussels, as these regions have very few bike locations. They are therefore already paying for most of them. It would appear that the main Brussels stations have only about 600 secure bike pitches, whereas it has been estimated that at least 1,500 bicycles would be needed to support the growth of the bicycle in the capital by 2025. In addition, as explained in the SNCB press release, following the government's decision to make bicycle access temporarily free on trains in July 2020, the number of bicycles increased by 80% compared to July 2019. This creates many difficulties and complaints among travellers, as well as major safety and health problems. Bicycles block access to cars, entrances, exits and sanitary facilities equipped with water and soap. This discourages taking the train, as Luc Goffinet, representative of GRACQ, pointed out. The head of the cycling association therefore calls for other solutions, such as car parks and bicycle rental at arrival stations, for example. So, Minister, how do you explain this imbalance between the different regions in terms of the number of bicycle parking spaces? Is it planned to increase the number of bike pitches in Walloon and Brussels stations in the near future? If so, how many additional places are there? Will these be secured? Will they be free or paid? How do you plan to address the problem of excessive bicycles on trains following the government announcement? Were alternatives considered? Finally, what is the status of discussions regarding the possibility of charging bicycle parking in Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u54	Mr. Minister, with debunking, the practice of cycling is booming. A study by Pro Velo, published last week, shows that one of the obstacles to cycling is the difficulty in parking your bike safely, especially when it comes to an electric bike that represents a high investment. SNCB has a role to play in the development of these secure car parks in the city and in the countryside. Booster bike-train intermodality is in the interest of SNCB, which would allow it to reduce the need for parking spaces, attract new audiences and solve the problem of bicycles on trains, because if people can leave their bikes safe in the parking lot, it is less necessary to carry them on the train. GRACQ recommends that stations be equipped with car parks with a capacity equivalent to 5% of the number of daily passengers. Minister, how many stations are now equipped with bicycle parking, simply, and also with secure bicycle parking? What is your plan to boost this capacity that is really needed in this period of deconfination and attraction for the bike? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u55	Dear colleagues, since Wallonia is much more hilly than Flanders, cycling is de facto more complex and difficult. It is therefore normal that there are fewer users of this mode of travel and therefore less bicycle parking in Wallonia. I've got a number on my mind. In the 2018 Monitor study, 14% of home-to-work trips took place by bike in Flanders and only 1% in Wallonia. This shows the gap between the two. Of course, with the advent of the electric bike, this pattern can no longer exist. It is hoped that Walloon users will catch up with those elsewhere. By 2025, there are expected to be up to 50,000 additional bike locations across the country. The locations will be determined and planned on the basis of current occupancy and growth forecasts. SNCB's current vision is that bicycle parking is and remains free for SNCB customers. Consideration is being given to limiting this free of charge after a certain period of time, for example 24 hours, in order to avoid the abandonment of bicycles and to allow as many people as possible to benefit from the infrastructure. At present, cyclists at large stations can leave their bikes for a low cost in bicycle car parks equipped with access control and managed by bicycle points. SNCB is developing a framework contract for a new standard bike car park concept with an access control that would work with the Mobib card. SNCB accepts the carriage of bicycles as long as there are places available to store the bicycles properly. I'm talking about normal bikes. Folding bikes are allowed anyway because they can fit between or below the seats. Travel is free of charge for these people anyway. It's different for city bikes with big wheels. Following the government's decision to make bicycle transport on trains temporarily free until 31 December, the number of bicycles increased by 80% in July 2020 compared to July 2019. On certain rail relations, this leads, on the one hand, to many inconveniences for passengers and, on the other hand, to safety problems in general as well as health problems in particular. SNCB therefore decided that, with the exception of a number of trains to and from the Côte et des Ardennes, i.e. a very limited number of trains during the summer holidays, everyone could travel with their bike on the trains, provided, as always, that they had a bicycle ticket for the journey, which was available free of charge until the end of the year. SNCB insists that, before boarding the train, it is appropriate to ask the train's attendant in which cars there are still seats available to store the bike. If there are too many passengers on the train, the attendant may refuse to carry bicycles on board.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u56	Minister, thank you for that clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answers. I'd like to add a little clarification. It is often alleged that Wallonia is not cycling due to weather or its gradient, but, in reality, many studies have shown that the difference between cycling and non-cycling areas is due to the development and ambitious nature of cycling policies. We see that in Copenhagen or in some Swiss cities, which are extremely hilly, cycling is very popular because users benefit from secure facilities. It is therefore essential not to be mistaken. Furthermore, in my view, we should have a broader debate on the question of free – or rather payment – bicycle parking. Limiting parking to 24 hours seems to me an absurd step. A user may very well need a longer parking time when travelling abroad, for example. The same applies to the free bike on the train. I have several questions and comments on the subject, but I prefer to wait until the end of the test phase to discuss them in this committee. In any case, this test seems interesting to me to realize the habits and needs as well as the obstacles to this practice. Indeed, the majority of the conflicts that now arise between users are due to a lack of space for bicycles in some cars. I hope that particular attention will be paid to this aspect in subsequent orders for equipment. Finally, it is essential to intensify the intermodality between the bike and the train, as we have already pointed out. There are still too many stations with unsafe bike access. I therefore believe that it is imperative to establish a dialogue with the municipalities in order to facilitate access from urban centres or villages to the nearest railway stations, in order to encourage as many citizens as possible to go to the railway station by bicycle.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u58	Minister, the Dutch Railways have recently announced that they want to speed up the Benelux train between Amsterdam and Brussels from 2024. In this way they think they can encourage more passengers to use the railway rather than the short flights between Zaventem and Schiphol, which are still being carried out today. On part of the route new trains will run at a top speed of 200 km/h. The Dutch Railways have also ordered new train equipment, namely the ICNG trains. There would be talks with SNCB about other acceleration options, in addition to the new equipment. For example, in order for trains to travel faster between Brussels and Amsterdam, a number of stops or stations should be removed. SNCB stated that, together with the NS, it is looking at a number of new, additional and customer-friendly opportunities for the Brussels-Amsterdam and Brussels-Rotterdam lines. However, this does not necessarily mean that the current Benelux link would be removed. I do not have to tell you that these new developments offer opportunities. A fast connection between Zaventem and Schiphol is a very important objective for the Belgian airport. The fast connection is also important for the transfer of the plane to the train. I would also like to refer to the resolution adopted by the Court, in which it was put forward as desirable. However, there is also concern about the supply at a number of train stations, particularly at the Noorderkempen station, where ten years have had to wait for a decent train service. The Benelux train has contributed to this. If that were to be deleted again, the quality of service would disappear there. Due to its strategic location, next to the railway, that station is important to convince people to take the train. Minister, can you explain or explain the consultation between SNCB and the NS? What was discussed? What's the further planning? In what stations would the Benelux train possibly not stop in the future? Is it about the current Benelux train or about additional trains? What new, additional and customer-friendly opportunities are currently being considered? What timing are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u59	Mr President, Minister, I largely agree with Mr Van den Bergh's questions. A fast connection between Brussels and Amsterdam is really good news. After the Fyra-debacle, train traffic between Amsterdam and Brussels continued to blunder. It is good that the Dutch Railways review the service to Belgium and discuss it with SNCB. Mr Van den Bergh already said, an attractive connection can convince more people to refrain from a flight to Amsterdam and make them choose the train. Of course, such an announcement also causes the travellers to worry, especially when it is said that they want to cut down on the number of stops in Belgium. The train stops in Belgium at the stations Noorderkempen, Antwerpen-Central, Antwerp-Berchem and so on. So I too am pleased to hear this on the one hand, but on the other hand I have some informative questions. How are the calls going? When is a decision expected? How many stations would the Dutch Railways want to delete? Which stations are eligible for this? What is the position of SNCB in this? What other measures are being taken to increase the attractiveness of that train connection?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u60	Mr President, SNCB informs me that, given the growing importance of sustainable international trains for medium distances, SNCB and the NS are looking at a number of new, additional and customer-friendly opportunities for, among other things, the Brussels-Amsterdam and Brussels-Rotterdam voyages. In other words, a number of new, additional and faster Benelux connections between Brussels and Rotterdam and Amsterdam will be explored in addition to the current Benelux connections. As negotiations are still ongoing, SNCB does not wish to anticipate at this stage whether or not certain stop points for the additional faster connections are being removed. Since the addition of four trains on the Brussels-Amsterdam route three or four years ago, there has been no growth in proportion to the increase in the number of trains. Travellers therefore spread differently over the day. This means that the supply is optimal since, it seems, it has reached its full maturity. With the acceleration of Benelux trains, since trains will take the fast line in Holland instead of the conventional line, we will see whether there will be either an increase in the number of passengers or a shift in the number of passengers from the Thalys to the Benelux trains. But, with an offer of twenty-six trains a day now, I think we've reached the saturation of the supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u61	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, from which we cannot yet get much news. I understand that the conversations are still ongoing, but the signal we want to give is clear. I still have a thought. There is, of course, a double offer between Brussels and Amsterdam, in particular, on the one hand, the classic Amsterdammer or the so-called good old Benelux train and, on the other hand, the Thalys trains or high-speed trains, which, however, do not run via Zaventem airport. In that respect we lack an opportunity, to have a faster connection between Zaventem and Schiphol. So that could still be focussed on. If, for flights between these two airports, which are barely more than 100 km apart, we want to seduce passengers to take the train, then a rapid connection between the two airports is really necessary. The Thalys train is more suitable for this than the Benelux train, which connects more the different cities and stops it makes.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u62	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am largely in agreement with what Mr Van den Bergh has replicated. I would also like to add that we have adopted a resolution which states that there should be an investigation into connections that can replace short-haul flights. We have to keep doing that. Dialogue between the different railway companies is very important. However, we must not only look at speed, but also at the comfort of the passengers who can continue to use the connections in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u63	I do not see Mr Raskin in the Chamber. Mr Roggeman, do you happen to have any news from Mr Raskin? Is he coming later or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u64	Mr President, Mr Raskin had informed me that he had raised his question. Question No 55008322C and Question No 55008322C 55008768C would be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u65	They shall be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u66	On 28 August, SNCB issued a press release on the mid-term results of 2020 with a number of important messages. Firstly, there is an operational loss of EUR 152.3 million so far. This is estimated to amount to EUR 300 million by 2020. This operational loss is due to the corona crisis, where the number of passengers has fallen significantly, but costs have not decreased proportionally because SNCB decided early to continue to guarantee sufficient supply, even if few people were on the trains. Secondly, these poor results put pressure on the financing of major investment projects, including rolling stock and increasing platforms. SNCB asks the government to ensure the necessary financing needs for those investment plans. Thirdly, it reiterates its call for the public service mission to continue to be allocated to SNCB and its members for the entire network, obviously on the basis of ambitious commitments and results, given the importance of continuity of services and the unity of management. We've heard this message before in this committee. Such an allocation must be decided by December 2023 at the latest, and that can be done for ten years. That's what SNCB is advocating. Can you give more information on the six-month results and more specifically on the financial aspect? What impact do these operational losses have in the short and long term? What planned investments are at risk? Are there any investments that have been made so far? If so, which one? How do you answer the question of ensuring the financing of these investment projects? Fourthly, do you support the call for the further assignment of public services to SNCB in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u67	Mr President, I fully support the questions put by Mr Vandenbroucke.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u68	Mr President, that goes for me too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u69	The same applies to me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u70	It's perfect. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u71	Despite fewer travellers, SNCB continues to play its role as the backbone of mobility. This is very important for all those who rely on the train for their essential journeys. But this also has a downside. Operating revenues fell to EUR 1.40 billion and to EUR 1.29 billion over the same period last year, while operating costs could only fall slightly to EUR 1,19 billion, compared to EUR 1.25 billion over the same period last year, in order to maintain the supply of trains and increase the necessary expenditure on sanitary measures and protective equipment. As a result, the operational loss at the end of June amounts to EUR 152.3 million compared to a profit of EUR 44.3 million during the same period last year. An operational loss of more than EUR 300 million is expected at the end of this year. Economic debt increased to 2.47 billion euros in the first half of the year, compared to 2.38 billion euros at the end of June 2019. This crisis therefore also puts pressure on the future financing of the investments which are more necessary than ever for the modernisation of the railway company. We are talking about an investment in rolling stock or in digitalisation and customer services. The financial perspective for 2020-2030 provided for investments of EUR 8.26 billion, of which 85% was covered by the expected investment donations and EUR 0.8 billion would come from exploitation, which is therefore no longer to be expected in the coming years. Our primary concern must be to ensure the necessary financing needs for SNCB, both in the short and in the longer term, in order to develop public transport in a sustainable way. As far as liberalisation is concerned, I call on the next government – and we have prepared the case in this direction – to take a quick decision on the matter, and certainly before December 2023. But this direct allocation for ten years will at least have to be subject to a path of improvement of several smart performance indicators by 2028. Despite the crisis, SNCB strongly believes in the role that public transport will continue to play for hundreds of thousands of people a day. In recent months, SNCB has therefore continued to work on strategic projects which will continue to be rolled out in the coming months: digitisation, the introduction of the modern M7 train, investment in stations and measures to improve punctuality, which amounted to 93,4% at the end of June. SNCB also continued to recruit to ensure the public service. A working group is currently analysing the financial impact of the VOCID-19 crisis on companies and possible compensation that the State could grant to companies in compliance with European directives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which mainly consisted of rereading the press release that gave rise to my question. I could have done that myself. However, I understand that it is difficult for you to answer the two crucial questions, namely whether the financing of investment projects can be guaranteed and whether the public service mission can be allocated for ten years. After all, that is a task for a future government, should it be forthcoming.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I agree with Mr Vandenbroucke. I might as well have read the article from De Standaard, which you have almost completely summarized in your reply. On the rest of my more detailed questions, specifically which investments are really threatened and what the state of play is with regard to consultation and solutions, I have not received any answers. You're putting this out for you, which I regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u74	Minister, I hear in your reply that SNCB wants to remain the backbone of mobility. This is incredibly important. If we want to make public transport more sustainable, then we must have the courage to use it and invest in it. I call on the next government, which will hopefully be coming soon, to do so, because investing in public transport is good for the climate and for society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u75	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which indeed did not contain so much news. It is clear that there is a great deal of work on the table: a clear financial plan for a sufficiently long term, both in terms of operating and investment donations and a clear management agreement with qualitative objectives, coupled with a guarantee for SNCB that it will be able to work for ten years, provided that it can achieve the quality objectives, will be necessary to get out of this crisis and compensate for the losses. Some additional financial efforts will have to be made to achieve this. I know that the second round is already under way in the Netherlands to compensate the public transport companies. We are already talking about compensation for the first half of 2021. In that sense, therefore, we are once again lagging behind, but we will do everything we can to make this right as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u76	Thank you for those answers. We understand that the situation is complicated, as it is for many sectors. Nevertheless, I believe that the government must ensure that SNCB can be supported in its projects and in the investments it envisages. This will, of course, fall within the role of the next government, but I think it is important to recall here that we must maintain a level of service and comfort for current users and potential new users. The train is essential for today's and tomorrow's mobility. The VOCID crisis we're going through is terrible. And we know that the climate crisis that we will be going through will also be very serious for future generations and ourselves. It is therefore important to activate all the levers at our disposal today to limit global warming. Investing in SNCB is one of these levers and we will be a partner in this direction for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u77	Mr Rigot is in another committee, so we will come back to his question later. Questions Nos. 55008417C and 55008418C by Ms. Jadin are transformed into written questions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share with you two considerations on the order of business. Several colleagues ask me what time we will be working. The minister is available, so we can try to get to the end of the questions. Of course, and this may have been a novelty in recent months, if some colleagues want to refer to the text as it has been tabled, I would remind you that in this case, the written text submitted is reflected in full in the minutes of the questions and answers. We can, of course, also add points, modify them and update them. It's a way of doing things. I would also like to inform the members of this committee who are present that on Tuesday 28 September next afternoon we will have questions to Mr Clarinval. In addition, we will try to deal with the questions addressed to Mr. Backer Tuesday or Wednesday next but it's still waiting. I think that we will be able to clear the questions for the major departments before, who knows, another life.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u78	Mr President, Minister, the Denderleeuw station, a very important station in East Flanders, even throughout Flanders, is in need of renewal. They've been talking about that for a long time. A symbolic place in the station environment of Denderleeuw is the so-called water tower. The water tower was built in 1925 on behalf of the railways for the supply of steam trains at that time. However, the water tower is referred to by the Agency Onroerend Erfgoed of the Flemish government as a fixed architectural heritage." Moreover, the monument is not only a beacon in the municipality and even in the region, it is also included in the master plan for the station of Denderleeuw. The water tower, which is owned by Infrabel, has fallen very much into decay. It has become a painful sight in the station environment of Denderleeuw. I won't talk about Denderleeuw's skyline, because Denderleeuw isn't that big. Minister, what plans does Infrabel have with the building? On what time? Is Infrabel willing or intending to sell the building, for example to the municipality of Denderleeuw? Is Infrabel in contact with the municipality of Denderleeuw and the Agency Onroerend Erfgoed Vlaanderen, respectively, to help achieve the restoration, future and possible new destination or completion of the building?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u79	Mr De Spiegeleer, SNCB is aware of the municipality's request to revalue the water tower as a landmark or landmark. Accessibility is a major problem. The water tower is in the middle of the tracks. For SNCB, the transfer of the water tower to the municipality can take place. However, there is also a piece of Infrabel land that needs to be transferred. The water tower is owned by SNCB, but is located on a land of Infrabel. The water tower can be transferred to Infrabel together with the ground or the SNCB can transfer the water tower to the municipality. The municipality investigates the possible initiatives to upgrade the water tower.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u80	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I would have expected that answer, but of course it is confusing. SNCB is the owner of the tower, but the land is owned by Infrabel. The municipality is also asking party and interview partner. We are a little concerned that it will be a long-term project. When we look at the current state of the building, I think that a solution must be found very quickly in the interests of everyone. I do not think that neither Infrabel nor SNCB will benefit from the state of this building, even if they are officially owned. I think that SNCB and Infrabel should take a constructive position here, in cooperation with the municipality of Denderleeuw and with the Agency Onroerend Erfgoed to see this as a full beacon in the municipality and the region. I think this would only be a win-win situation in which Infrabel and SNCB would only benefit. Now, after all, it's just a blemish on the sight of the station environment. Thank you for the answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u81	Mr Minister, I had first submitted this question in writing, but I must honestly say that the answer I received was not really an answer to my questions concerning the minimum follow-up time between trains. That is why I ask my question again, but now orally. In the Netherlands, railway infrastructure manager ProRail announced that it would abandon a generic standard for all trains as regards the minimum follow-up time. An improved module in the software will allow them to vary the minimum follow-up time between two trains by location and even by train. Due to the fact that trains can follow each other faster than they are at present, there is room on the track for more trains. According to ProRail, this would increase capacity on the Dutch track from 7,000 to 9,000 trains. A pilot project on self-driving trains is also underway in the Netherlands. According to ProRail, these trains can safely move closer to each other and this can also shorten the follow-up time. I have the following questions. Are SNCB and Infrabel aware of such a modified software that allows more precise plans, so that the capacity on the Belgian rail network can be raised? If so, are they considering such a purchase? At the meeting of the Mobility Committee on 27 November 2019, you replied that Infrabel and SNCB had a joint study on ATO. In your reply you confirm that this is one of the slopes examined in relation to the problem of the saturated North-South link. Has a follow-up been drawn up on the basis of these results?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u82	Mrs Buyst, SNCB and Infrabel inform me that they will continue to monitor new developments in railway technologies in different working groups, including at international level, and that the study is still ongoing. As I told you in reply to your written question, the study has shown that ATO could be a pertinent solution together with a number of other interventions in the field of infrastructure and train equipment. With regard to your question about the minimum follow-up times between trains, Infrabel informs me that its planning applications do not yet calculate automatic follow-up times. Those times are allocated manually according to the infrastructure, such as the permitted speeds and signalling devices, and according to the characteristics of the trains that follow each other. So the planning is precise, but it is done by human intervention. This approach also allows to optimise capacity and keep track times at a minimum, where technically possible and desirable in terms of punctuality and robustness of the transport plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u83	Minister, you are indeed answering the question of ProRail's project in the Netherlands. I also hear that Infrabel does this mostly manually. I have heard from one of the previous answers that they want to focus on innovation and optimization. It is therefore very important to look at good examples abroad. If it became apparent that the Dutch Railways could have more trains running on their network, it would be important to contact them and learn from the good examples from abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u84	I haven't heard from Mr. De Maegd, so we will see for his question no. 55008477C. I do not know if Mr Gilkinet comes to ask his question or whether it is transformed or postponed. He can let us know, even later. Question No 55008507C by Mrs Dedonder is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u85	Mr President, Minister, we have just discussed the financial losses made by SNCB this year as a result of the COVID-19 crisis and the number of passengers and the occupation of trains. There is yet another growth, but we have to note that many commuters are still working at home today. This is perhaps a fact that will not disappear, since homework also has a positive impact on our mobility. It is a challenge for SNCB to be able to offer an interesting offer to that commuting public working at home. In the Netherlands, the NS decided to examine its subscriptions and adapt them to today's needs, such as people who work a lot at home and only have to go to the workshop occasionally. With SNCB there is a part-time subscription. This can be a solution for commuters who have to go to the office two or three days a week, but working at home obviously has many forms and requires even more flexibility. Some people work at home for a week and a week in the office, or one day a week or fourteen days, and so on. They then fall back on standard tickets or on the ticket for 10 single journeys and pay considerably more than subscribers per journey. It would be good if SNCB could offer custom subscriptions for this target audience. The same applies to SNCB's car parks. Occasional commuters pay much more expensive day tickets than subscription holders who can get cheaper access to the paying parkings. Minister, how does SNCB evaluate its existing offer for part-time commuters? What is the position of SNCB with regard to developing flexible subscriptions to convince people who work partly at home to buy a new subscription anyway? Will SNCB investigate this further? If so, what is the timing? How does SNCB evaluate the parking pressure at the stations? What are the possibilities of having occasional commuters park at the stations in an economical way? What is the view of SNCB on this? What compensation does SNCB provide for travellers whose subscription expired during this corona period? What about travellers who have an annual subscription? What compensation does the railway company provide for? What about the parking tickets?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u86	Mr Minister, it is possible to suspend or change the train ticket in the Netherlands. Some 375 000 train users have made use of this. With us, I don't see any adapted policies for homeworkers. However, homework increases significantly due to the corona crisis. So now is the time to work out a proper structural regulation. SNCB currently only has a half-time subscription. Pendants who only go to the office one to two days a week have little advantage with that formula. They now fall back on separate tickets, which is more expensive. Other workers go to work more often at times when the number of infections is lower, at peak moments they stay at home. There is not really an ideal approach for them either. Several commuters had a full-time annual subscription, but now they're stuck with it. It is possible to exchange a full-time subscription to a half-time subscription, but that arrangement is too little known to us. It is crucial that SNCB adapts to these changed circumstances. Minister, how many commuters have converted their full-time subscription to a half-time subscription since Corona? Will SNCB's passengers be more able to adapt their subscription to a formula more tailored to their needs? Is SNCB currently working on more flexible formulas tailored to homework? If so, when do they expect to start doing so? If not, why not? At the Dutch Railways, passengers could put their subscription to a break. We did not have a similar arrangement, as there was still consultation with other transport companies. Is there any further work to ensure that passengers with a subscription can extend their period of validity or possibly be compensated for?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u87	Mr President-in-Office, we would have liked to highlight another aspect of flexible tariffs. The negotiating papers of the possible Vivaldi government stated that they want to move towards flexible rates at SNCB. Does this mean that SNCB will be given the freedom to adjust tariffs to the hustle and bustle? Will tracks become more expensive during rush hour, which will discourage people from taking the train? We want the opposite, however, that public transport is being used more. Have studies been carried out in the past on flexible tariff formulas? What are the effects if this would also mean that tickets would be more expensive? What were the conclusions? SNCB is now, of course, under severe pressure from the corona crisis. Is it then wise to give a signal to the people that train tickets may be made more expensive or that people will have to take another train? Isn't this just a way of increasing the funding of SNCB by making travellers pay more? It is already not easy for many people to take the train in many small stations, where not many trains run. What are the possibilities of flexibility around that? It may also mean that rates would rise, and we are concerned about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of SNCB is to simplify the supply of products and their prices, and to adapt it for the future, in particular in the light of the expectations of travellers, digitalisation and technological developments, competition and liberalisation. Making part of it more dynamic should be considered. SNCB pursues a number of objectives, namely to encourage passengers to better spread over trains with mainly more passengers during off-peak hours, to adapt the offer of subscriptions to labour market developments, to facilitate intermodal door-to-door movements and to promote digital channels. All this will be done without losing sight of the sanitary requirements. In order to meet the expectations of teleworkers and people working half-time, SNCB offers a half-time subscription for 5 round-trips and 5 back-trips over a 15-day period. However, it should be noted that only 5% of SNCB subscribers opted for the half-time subscription both for and during the corona crisis. Despite the large-scale work at home, commuters continue to prefer the standard subscription. Surveys have been and will continue to be carried out in order to understand and anticipate future developments in telework and, more generally, in travel frequencies. On the basis of these, new flexible subscription formats are being studied. The precise offer for the future is therefore well under consideration at SNCB. In addition to these considerations, SNCB must also respond to recent market developments, as is the case with the current health crisis. SNCB has also established a new cell Pricing and Revenue Management. As far as compensation is concerned,... the same position on a number of transport companies. Passengers can always make use of the existing compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u89	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Unfortunately, I do not see so many new elements. I believe that this will have to be followed up further over the next few weeks and months. As far as compensation is concerned, the answer has already been given several times. There is an existing system to cancel subscriptions and get partially refunded. However, that system is far from customer-friendly. I find this a little customer-friendly attitude and regret that the existing travellers are no longer faced with compensation for not being able to use their subscriptions during the lockdown.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u90	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. On the one hand, I am pleased to learn that there is a reflection exercise in the process of mapping future trends, but I really think we should move a gear higher. It is logical that working at home will become the new normal and that public transport will have to respond to this with subscription formulas that are easy for people who want to take the train flexibly. The fact that only 5 % has chosen to convert its subscription into a half-time subscription may also indicate that too little is known that this is an option. I really think that with this new normal, the work at home, which brings with it a number of positive developments, SNCB should support that vision of the future and should make every effort to reflect on how to offer flexible subscriptions to its travellers as customer-friendly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u91	I didn't really get an answer to my question about the possible flexible applications. We must be aware that we cannot ask for a better distribution of people who do not have a free choice in working hours. Those people don't have a choice. They must be able to take the train at the hours determined by the employer. For us it is very important not to make the tickets more expensive for the people who need the train to go to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u92	Minister, thank you. I am also pleased to hear that a solution is under consideration to make subscriptions more flexible. It is a matter of responding to an essential concern of the commuters currently, given the situation. We have to adapt quickly. It's important. On the other hand, a major focus is on tariffs. As recommended by the Poverty Alleviation Network, lower tariffs for off-peak hours could be considered. However, this should not be in the direction of an increase in tariffs during full hours. Above all, we must not play on a fluctuation of tariffs, as can be the case for example on high-speed trains and international trains, which are liberalised. This creates insecurity and an increase in prices. Above all, do not enter into such a scheme. It's essential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u93	Debates of the European Parliament 55008518C by Mr Van den Bergh is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u94	Mr Minister, despite its regional importance, the 4,000 commuters passing through it on a daily basis and the new sub-urban offer plan S, it must be noted that the Tubize station is in poor condition: degraded docks, defracated infrastructure, escalators that have been broken down for five years, difficult accessibility, etc. In March 2018, a train station lift was announced for an amount of 350,000 euros. So, Minister, where are we from both a time and a budget point of view in carrying out this work? What exactly are the planned interventions? On the issue of accessibility, is there an urgent solution for the escalators of the two docks that have been broken down for months?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u95	Colleagues, in order to allow as many passengers as possible easy access to the docks, the SNCB will increase the number of lifts at its stations, from 250 in 2017 to 350 in 2022. The number of escalators will increase from 310 in 2017 to 385 in 2022. The Tubize escalators are very old escalators that have been put out of service and need to be replaced. This is the case for some 30 stairways throughout the country. Major work is needed, including upgrading of the wharfs, construction of ramps and elevators, and requires extensive study and investment to adapt rail infrastructure to current accessibility standards for people with reduced mobility. In order to accommodate its customers in the best possible conditions, SNCB benefits from the traditional investment endowments as well as from the contribution of part of the complementary financing of the virtuous billion. It is almost 600 million euros that will have been invested in the period 2018-2020. SNCB is currently in contact with the city of Tubize. It has planned to equip the wharfs which will be upgraded by 2022. In this context, the accessibility of people with reduced mobility will be considerably improved as PMR ramps will be installed. The railway station doors will soon be replaced by sliding doors. In addition, in order to improve the station's cleanliness, selective sorting bins have been installed; the station's cleaning is outsourced and gives good results.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u96	Minister, thank you for that answer. Of course, 2022 is far away for people and, in particular, those with reduced mobility who are waiting while trying to find solutions! The Tubize station is not the only one concerned. We will follow the case of this station like that of so many others with attention. Indeed, we are often called upon by people who encounter difficulties in organizing their movements and who live the situation as a long journey of the combatant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u97	Minister, on September 7th, an article appeared in La Dernière Heure informing us that the mediator and the mediation service at the national airport claimed to have been under pressure and threatened to influence, or even prevent, the preparation of the evaluation report on the impact of the work carried out on the two runways in Brussels-National between 18 March and 23 August. Indeed, the Director of the Mediation Service explained that clear and obvious pressure had been exerted on himself and the mediation service, so that no evaluation could be carried out. He claims that some actors refused to cooperate, did not provide the right information and practiced the language of wood. The Ombudsman and the mediation service of the national airport have a legal obligation to collect and disseminate information on the trajectories and nuisances caused by aircraft passing through that airport. A mission which, as provided for in the Royal Decree of March 2002, must be carried out independently. It must be noted that if these pressures and threats are proven, the proper functioning of the service is called into question. Minister, have your services responded to these worrying statements? Are you able to check them? Are judicial follow-up envisaged? What additional measures are needed to ensure the independence of this service? Will the report be available to the public?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u98	Mrs Zanchetta, I would like to point out that the mediation service at the Brussels-National airport is independent. I regret that the 2019 report of that service was neither sent nor presented to me, as is customary for me to do. On a number of occasions, I have witnessed tense relations between the Ombudsman and certain actors in connection with the overflight of Brussels, such as Brussels Airport Company (LAC), but also the associations of local residents. I therefore appeal to everyone's critical and positive spirit to ensure that this situation does not persist.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u99	Minister, I take note of this and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u100	I have no news from Mrs. Slegers. Question 55008713C by Mr Senesael has been converted into a written question. Question 55008768C by Mr Raskin has also been converted into a written question. The same applies to questions 55008781C and 55008783C by Madame Hanus and questions 55008789C and 55008835C by Mr Arens. Question 55008853C by Mr Vandenbroucke was then converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u101	Dear colleague, the free "one month train" action is organised for companies that are reachable by train and are also making every effort to ensure that their employees adopt a different and lasting way of getting to work. SNCB advises companies on the implementation of this mobility solution. This is accompanied by intensive analysis and consultation between SNCB and the company. The commitment of the management of the company is therefore a critical success factor in carrying out this action. Access by train is another decisive factor in determining which company will benefit from the collaboration. The formula is based on a standard journey subscription, for a period of one month. The cost of the operation is fully borne by SNCB. In the past, SNCB has already carried out collaborations with, among others, the Walloon Union of Enterprises, Brussels Mobility, Netwerk Duurzame Mobiliteit Vlaanderen, and has also actively participated in initiatives carried out during the week of (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u102	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which unfortunately does not really answer the specific questions I introduced. To be clear, I think that this operation is really interesting and corresponds to what is recommended in terms of modal shift. The aim is to provide support to citizens and groups of citizens and communities. That's what my questions were about. On the other hand, I wondered whether this offer was reserved for companies that were able to mobilise 15 to 20 employees interested in the offer. This means that neither those who already have a subscription nor those who do not have a station nearby and for whom it is unthinkable. This already seems to me to be a mass of very large employees knowing that we have an economic fabric densely composed of SMEs and TPEs. It would seem interesting if this offer could also accompany smaller structures, such as small ASBLs or small companies with ten employees. That's where I was thinking. I will come back to you via a written question, for example.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u103	Dear colleague, at the last meeting of the working group on 19 March 2020, it was agreed that Sweden would determine the next steps for this interdepartmental collaboration and the agenda for the next meetings. To date, the meetings of the working group for the night train link between Malmö and Brussels have not yet been resumed and no timetable has been communicated. Contacts are under way between the respective administrations to clarify the situation. In the event that Sweden wishes to have the night train operated by the end of 2022, it is necessary to notify the rail transport regulatory service promptly. A period of 18 months must be observed before a new rail passenger service is put into circulation. These contacts should also provide an opportunity to discuss the results of the studies and analyses carried out by the Swedish administration in recent months. In practice, by April 2021 at the latest, a furrow reservation would be required. This should be done at the next meeting in Leipzig.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u104	Thank you for that clarification, Minister. I would also like to know if the government was going to declare this public service package. As you said, the directive obliges Sweden to apply. Belgium could also be involved in this way in the project, which would give it greater room for manoeuvre and a better view of the progress of the project, in particular in terms of the capacity and future of the line. Beyond that, if we do not move towards this option, we could at least give a favourable opinion on the passage of the train on Belgian territory. I hope it goes from the source for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u105	SNCB informs me that it is already fully cooperating in various intermodality initiatives. Her involvement in the Mobile Points is a good example of this. It sees the rail network and station environments as the main mobility nodes. In its current multi-annual investment plan, SNCB therefore places a high priority on customer reception and full accessibility. In terms of intermodality, it invests in the shift towards sustainable mobility by strengthening the establishment of its station environments according to the STOP principle, the construction of additional bicycle storage facilities, the systematic and integral accessibility of the stations, and the provision of first and last miles of rail passengers by offering new mobility services in a thorough and very accessible way, in cooperation with its partners such as De Lijn and operators on part mobility. SNCB has a project to identify the composition of the trains in its itinerary, on its website and on the MoveSafe app. SNCB is currently looking for a solution to cases where the actual train composition differs from the planned train composition. SNCB tells me not to have figures on how many customers could not take their bike on the train. Finally, SNCB lets me know not to plan a price increase for the bicycle supplement in 2021. I would remind you of the drop in prices from EUR 5 to EUR 4 in February 2019. After the current period during which the bike could be taken free of charge, the price of the bike supplement will again be 4 euros. The figures of the number of train passengers who made use of the possibility of taking the bike free of charge on the train per week during the holidays in July and August will be provided in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u106	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I am pleased to hear the fine intentions of SNCB and yourself for improving intermodality. Displaying the composition of the trains in the itineraries is a good initiative. The fact that the prices of bicycle supplements are not raised is also positive. Furthermore, I look forward to completing the cycling strategy. I suppose, or at least I hope, that it will be anchored in a SNCB policy document so that the committee members will be able to look at it over time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u107	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I am also pleased to hear that there is a strong commitment to the combination of bike and train, which offers enormous added value. I also look forward to the follow-up and further steps by SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u108	Debates of the European Parliament 55008619C by Mrs Slegers will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u109	Mr President, Minister, it is a dossier that frustrates me quite a bit. From 5 October travellers will have to pay for a parking space at the parking lot at the station Noorderkempen. I don't know if you've ever been there. That station is located right next to a motorway, about 30 kilometers from Antwerp. It is perfectly located to reach Antwerp quickly, beyond the traffic jams on the E19. SNCB says to introduce this measure because the parking is permanently overcrowded and that a modal shift of the people taking the train should be used. In other words, SNCB is trying to convince passengers to come to the station in a different way from the individual car. I think that in many stations this could be a thoughtful measure, but not to a station next to a railway station, I think. The argument of the hustle and bustle on the parking lot is no longer valid. Dor de coronacrisis is the number of travelers limited and the number of people coming by car to the station has been considerably reduced, thus the pressure on the parking lot has completely dropped. The argument to make the parking pay has also lapsed. Both the municipality board and the Transport Region of Antwerp, which, on behalf of the Flemish Region, drew up the mobility vision for the region around Antwerp, have protested against paying for the parking, as this cannot be seen separately from other peripheral parkings in the spacious surroundings around Antwerp, both carpool parkings and parkings at tram stations. In fact, the whole parking policy needs to be considered together and SNCB should not be allowed to determine that policy separately from the other mobility players. Mr. Secretary, do you have any figures on the use of the parking lot? Does that show that the pressure on the parking lot has completely dropped? Does the SNCB's argument to make the parking pay not lapse? Shouldn't this decision be postponed?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u110	SNCB lets me know that she does not have an absolute and precise view of how many customers in the car park are rail passengers or local residents before a parking lot is made. It is only when the parking is paid that SNCB gets a precise view of the number of rail passengers using the parking lot and whether an extension of the parking for rail passengers is at issue. SNCB does not see any reduction in the number of rail passengers after making a parking fee. The real leverage to attract new customers is the supply of trains. The parking is a service that the customer expects, but, according to SNCB, whether he is paying or not has no decisive impact on the decision to take the train. The customer is willing to pay for the station parking if the service offer meets his expectations. SNCB believes that the occupation on its parkings and trains will stabilise and will therefore further roll out its strategy, even during this difficult period. SNCB therefore confirms that the parking of the Noorderkempen station will be paid on 5 October. In the meantime, SNCB continues to work every day so that its customers could use its trains and parking facilities again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u111	Mr Minister, I have already had the necessary discussions with the people of SNCB on this subject, but I must refrain from getting angry. It is unlikely that SNCB would say that it does not know how many cars there are today, but that the car park is being used too much and therefore makes it paying. This is unlikely, and it happens just like that, instead of at the moment, when SNCB is having a hard time attracting enough passengers, just making additional efforts to attract the drivers who are travelling next to the station. In that sense, this station parking is very different from station parkings that are located in village centers or urban areas, where these might be arguments to bet on a modal shift to the stations, but not next to an autostrade. I find what's happening here really vengeful.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u112	Mr President, Minister, over the last five years, the population of SNCB has fallen by about 15%, without cutting the train supply significantly. Therefore, this was only possible because a significant increase in productivity was made by SNCB. Over a period of five years, from early 2015 to early 2020, the number of full-time equivalents has decreased by 2,400. The decline was mainly achieved by not replacing outgoing staff, but also by delayed recruitment to the operational services on the ground. At the beginning of 2020 it was proposed to recruit 1,800 new people in the course of the year. SNCB therefore had to look for 470 train drivers, 240 train escorts and 400 technicians and numerous other profiles. At the moment we see that only 85 jobs remain vacant at SNCB, especially in higher positions. How many recruitments have already taken place with SNCB in 2020? How many train drivers, train escorts and technicians were able to do extra work this year? What budget had SNCB set for recruitment by 2020? Is there any money left to recruit during this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u113	Ms Vindevoghel, for the year 2020, SNCB has employed 1,100 employees to date, including 208 train drivers, 133 train escorts and 310 technical profiles. SNCB determines each year the number of full-time equivalents it needs for all its services, broken down by profession. In the context of the 2019 budget format, SNCB had foreseen a staff of 17.544 full-time equivalents. On 1 September 2020, the number of 17,408 full-time equivalents was reached. However, SNCB still needs to recruit staff, but less than originally foreseen. This has to do with the impact of the sanitary crisis on the number of people leaving SNCB. It is true that a reduction in the number of voluntary redundancies has been observed compared to recent years. In addition, the success rate for the training is also higher. For the year 2020, SNCB provides for 1,500 recruitments. The available budget still allows about 400 employees to be employed, mainly in the technical professions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u114	Thank you, Minister, for the figures. It is not because there is now a sanitary crisis that reduces the number of trains. It is not because there are fewer people on the train that there should not be the same number of staff, to ensure everything. We have learned through a number of people on the ground that there will be no further recruitment of train escorts. That's why we're worried. We therefore really hope that you will not save on the staff. On the contrary, there is a real need for sufficient staff in the workplace.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u115	I would add for the services that Mr Rigot's question No 55008360C is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u116	Mr Vandenbroucke is no longer here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u117	Minister, this week is the Mobility Week, so it is good to discuss this again. Last year, following the Mobility Week, Mr Kurt Vanhauwaert wrote a letter to Mrs Sophie Dutordoir to consider how to improve access to trains. There was a discussion on this at the time. Now, a year later, we see that not much has changed. On the contrary, at the beginning of the corona crisis it was even impossible for people to take the train. In the meantime, this has improved a little, but the problem remains very precarious. It is an incredible difficulty for a lot of people to use the train. How many questions for assistance did SNCB receive in the past year? How many were refused or could they ultimately not be executed? What specific improvements have been made in the field over the past year for those who need assistance in getting on a train? What achievements did SNCB's new employee achieve responsible for making trains accessible in the past year? How many SNCB employees are working today on the assistance service for fewer mobiles and how many were there in 2019? Is it an idea to strengthen this service? At present, SNCB's BERT competition is taking place. In doing so, SNCB asks students from a technical and scientific direction to develop a kind of elevator that could serve the less mobile passengers themselves when getting on and off the train. Whoever wins will receive 200 euros from SNCB's travel vouchers. Are the engineers and other technicians of SNCB not able to develop such a thing themselves? Is SNCB itself looking for such a technical solution? Is SNCB just going to wait for students to find a miracle solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u118	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there have certainly been improvements in the accessibility of trains and stations over the past year. At the end of 2020, 77 stations will be fully or autonomously accessible. At the end of 2019 there were 71. By 2025, there must be 150, almost a doubling. That's not a project that needs to be started. It's already going on. In 2020, the stations of Veurne, Zedelgem and Turnhout were made fully accessible. Oostkamp, Tilff and the new station in Anderlecht will be finished this year. In addition, SNCB is also working in Hasselt and Gent-Sint-Pieters, among others. In these stations, lifts and ramps come to each platform. The platforms themselves are also increased. The latest trains already have adapted carriages with, among other things, sufficient seats for wheelchair users. When ordering new trains, these vehicles will be further developed to improve their accessibility. I would remind you that a station is autonomously accessible if, firstly, there are blind guide tiles in the station and on the platforms, secondly, ticket machines are accessible to everyone, thirdly, the platforms are raised to the maximum height of 76 centimeters, so that it is easier to get in and out and, fourthly, there are lifts or ramps to each platform. Assistance will remain necessary for the time being. Hence, SNCB is working on an app that allows travellers who need assistance who can also easily book. Now they still have to do so via the website or customer service. For completeness, assistance is possible in 132 stations. In 41 stations it can be booked up to three hours in advance. In that case it is the largest stations, where two thirds of all our passengers take the train. To manage this ambition, an accessibility coordinator has been appointed since the beginning of this year. He checks each decision against the needs of people with disabilities and then ensures that decisions are implemented in a coordinated manner. SNCB succeeds in successfully handling the nearly 60 000 applications it receives each year. This means that a customer with reduced mobility will almost always be able to travel by train. I will give you the figures in writing on the number of requests for assistance for the past year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u119	Thank you, Minister, for the many figures. I note that a lot of efforts are being made, but let us improve this even further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u120	Mr President, Minister, we are almost finished. It's not the first time. I have already asked a question about the problem in Kortrijk. Apparently, last summer, especially on 4 August 2020, there was another incident or near-accident, of which the traffic controllers at that time were completely out of control. I can imagine that such an incident has a huge impact on those traffic controllers. After all, they were afraid that something would really happen. Mr Minister, do you have any idea what happened at Wevelgem airport on 4 August 2020? If so, can you explain to us how that is possible? I hear there's more traffic than there used to be. What's the cause? Have any problems been identified regarding the renewed flight procedure at Kortrijk-Wevelgem airport? If so, has it already been implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u121	Mrs Vindevoghel, I was indeed informed that a flight incident occurred at Kortrijk-Wevelgem airport on 4 August 2020. It is premature today to call that incident a major incident. The investigation is ongoing and is carried out by the Belgian Air Accidents and Incidents Cell. Once the independent cell has completed its investigation, the report will be communicated and published. In the meantime, you will not blame me for not providing any further information on the incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u122	Thank you, Minister, for your information. We hear on the ground that the fact that in Kortrijk the area in question does not belong to the protected zone plays a role. Because there is now more traffic in Kortrijk, there are also more risks. I'll wait for the results of the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u123	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Bury's 55008946C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u124	Mr President, Minister, it is not the first time. In the meantime, we have already had a hearing on the problems of staff at skeyes. However, the situation remains very restless. I have recently received a communication from the three trade unions in which they call for the table to be seated as soon as possible to discuss a number of requirements. The criticism is above all that communication is very bad and that there is very bad consultation. Appointments and rules are not respected. The three trade unions demand more respect and demand an urgent meeting with the management about these problems. If it doesn't work out, they're threatening a strike. Are you aware of the new squabbles within skeyes between management and trade unions? Will you call on the board of skeyes to respond to the trade unions' request for a meeting to discuss this issue? Do you stand behind the board of skeyes?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u125	Following the COOVID-19 crisis, the management of skeyes, in consultation with the trade unions, has taken various measures to protect staff and to take account of the decline in traffic. Since the beginning of the crisis, four social agreements have been concluded in the Joint Committee. In view of the duration of the crisis, the trade unions have indicated that they want to adapt some of the agreements concluded. However, there are still health risks and air traffic is still at a historically low level. The management of the company sat together with the trade union on Friday 18 September to listen to the questions of the trade unions. It was agreed to meet again on October 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u126	Minister, the social partners particularly complain that there is a great deal of abuse due to the corona crisis and that many things are no longer being respected in terms of working conditions. I really hope that these negotiations are going well and that the CEO listens to the concerns of the staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u127	Mr Minister, in December the SNCB's transport plan will be updated every year. During the year, small adjustments are often made due to long-term work on rail infrastructure. Such adjustments have a major impact on travellers. The annual adjustment of the transport plan is communicated to passengers by SNCB clearly and well in advance. This is not always the case for the interim adjustments. For example, we could read the following on the website and in the app: "Adjustment timetable from September 7th. As from Monday 7 September, SNCB will adapt its transport plan. The timetable of some trains is adjusted, on the one hand to optimise the flow of trains, on the other hand to reduce the impact of the many works that Infrabel carries out on the entire rail network. See what's changing for your train in our itinerary or the SNCB app. In other words, passengers will have to find out for themselves. On the S9 connection, for example, the stop Herent is operated temporarily, until February 2021, but in one direction, which means that passengers suddenly have to change and are on the road longer. Announce such changes in this way is really not enough for us. The same applies to the announcements of work during the weekend. For example, it is no exception that daily passengers on a particular connection are not aware of a total break at weekends. However, it is difficult for daily users of a particular connection to be expected to consult the travel planner for any adjustments for each journey. Mr President, do you think that the communication of SNCB to passengers is sufficient in the event of temporary changes to the timetable? What initiatives are being taken to inform regular users of a connection of changes on their line? Is standard train escorts asked to call for such adjustments?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u128	Communication to travellers is very important for SNCB. The aim is constantly to provide the most appropriate information so that customers can travel under the best possible conditions. SNCB is also working on the information channels itself and is looking for the most appropriate means of conveying that correct information and ensuring that the content is as close to reality as possible. In this respect, the SNCB application and website are two tools that enable all useful information to be communicated efficiently and quickly in real time. In addition, communication is also made through other means and channels, such as announcements in stations and trains, as well as on different social media. Thus, the traveller is given the possibility to plan his or her journey in peace on the basis of complete and up-to-date information relating to the destination of his or her choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u129	Mr Minister, communication is indeed very important, especially in these times. There is still some work to be done, especially for the temporary adjustments that are being made during the year, so I hope that they will be put in place further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u130	Debates of the European Parliament 55008962C by Mrs Verhaert is converted into a written question, as is Question No 5, by Mrs Verhaert. 55008965C by Mrs Özen. Unless I'm wrong, I think we're done. Minister, I don't know what's going to happen in the next few days, but it's not impossible that this is the last session of questions of... what do I have to say? From the previous legislature, from the new term of the new legislature, from day-to-day and not current affairs? I wish you continued, perhaps in another formation, because it would take one day for our country to have a government! In any case, I thank you for the time you have devoted to Parliament, in order to answer the very many questions. You remain in this legislature, certainly again, the champion in this area. We still see it today with a long session and time to respond, with answers that are always serious and detailed, even if sometimes colleagues are not content with the content. That is another question! But I really believe that you have been a very available minister for Parliament. In the name of this one, although we are no longer very numerous, I thank you for your availability. Hartelijk dank!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u131	Mr President, thank you. Reasonably, I think this is probably the last session I attend. Belgian political life is so surprising that we do not know. Anyway, that's what I think. I hope so, in the interests of the country, because at some point we must be able to reach agreements and move forward, especially since the months and years ahead are not going to be simple. I had great pleasure in answering these many questions. Mobility concerns all citizens on a daily basis, be it rail, air, road, etc. Much remains to be done. There are enthusiastic people and it's a very exciting subject. I have been on this committee since 2000, as a parliamentarian, etc.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u132	This is not rejuvenating us, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u133	Indeed, it does not rejuvenate us. Next year, I will be doing politics for 40 years, having started modestly; but I still have the same sacred fire for issues that affect the daily lives of citizens. I have no doubt that the work will continue with the new or the new minister. As far as I am concerned, I will no longer be a member of this assembly, as I will no longer be a minister. But believe that I will always continue to be very attentive to the same subjects, in the interests of all, sustainable development, citizens, etc. I would also like to thank the collaborators, my collaborator. If we have a lot of questions, there are people who prepare them upstream. When you have 70 questions like today, you have to know that behind that, seven to eight full-time equivalents work for one or two weeks. I have one day calculated that the 3,000 or 4,000 questions I have been asked about the legislature, for 2 hours per question, represent 6 full-time equivalents. You have to know that. That's how it is! But it is obviously our role to answer the relevant and impertinent questions. It is normal that we should not all agree. It's life!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u134	Of course! Thank you. I assume that all of this is recorded and will be reflected in the record. On behalf of all, thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u135	Good continuation!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-22-55-commissie-ic264x.u136	Thank you.
