ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u1	Madam President, I hope they hear me well. Unfortunately, I'm not going to use the helmet because I realize there's a connection problem. I promise I'll settle this for the new year. Minister, since the ceasefire agreement, Armenia and Artsakh have been plunged into a humanitarian and economic crisis. Thousands of Armenian displaced people have lost their homes, their jobs. In addition, of course, to this is the ever-increasing health crisis in the country following the accumulation of populations in hotels, houses and shelters in Armenia. The Artsakh is in an almost insurmountable economic situation because everything is to be rebuilt. The wounded need care, the families of the killed soldiers need care. Madam Minister, could our country provide humanitarian assistance to Armenia as well as to Artsakh, who must rebuild the civilian infrastructure, houses and buildings bombed in order to allow the population to return to their homes and to provide housing for people who have lost their homes in areas that are now under Azerbaijan's control? Is an international or European presence envisaged in Artsakh in order to establish a point of contact? I would like to point out that I have also asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs this question. It has two parts, one on humanitarian aid and the other on the political situation. Madam Minister, I would understand if you could not comment on the second question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u2	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, during the war, but certainly since the so-called ceasefire between Armenia and Azerbaijan, the residents of Artsach have been in a humanitarian and economic crisis. There are thousands of displaced Armenians who have lost their homes, their jobs and, worst of all, their families. It is reported that 5,000 people were killed. Victims include not only military but also many civilian victims. During the Turkish-Azeric offensive, not only military targets were targeted, but also civilian targets such as schools, churches, historical monuments, graves and hospitals were deliberately bombed. The extent of the damage to infrastructure and the economic consequences are very high, but the medical situation in the affected area is also very serious. Without adequate humanitarian, medical and logistical assistance, the residents of Artsach risk being in a hopeless situation. Madam Minister, during your policy statement, you said that a substantial contribution was being made to humanitarian aid, including the Red Cross and the UN Refugee Organisation. These organisations can therefore decide independently where the most needs are and where and how these resources are used. The French Government has already sent two cargo shipments, including emergency medical equipment, directly to the affected region. Madam Minister, are there any guarantees that the Belgian contribution to the Red Cross and UNHCR will directly benefit the affected civilian population in the region? Will the Belgian Government, following the example of the French Government, still consider providing humanitarian, medical and logistical assistance itself? Have you been in contact with the local authorities and the government in Armenia to find out exactly where the needs are?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u3	Thank you, Mrs Jadin and Mrs Samyn, for your questions. I am also concerned about the humanitarian situation in this region. At this stage of the year, the Belgian humanitarian budget is fully allocated and no direct aid is planned. Nevertheless, even if Belgium does not directly support organisations in particular for this crisis, our humanitarian assistance is provided to populations in need indirectly through flexible funding, either through humanitarian funds or as general resources, which we allocate to recognised international organisations. Belgium is indeed committed to rapid, flexible and effective humanitarian aid. The International Red Cross Committee (ICRC), an organisation that received flexible funding of 8.5 million euros from Belgium in 2020, is an active actor in the current crisis. Thanks to the flexible funding provided by the ICRC, the organisation was able to set up activities to help populations affected by the conflict. Two other examples are the IRA Fund of the World Food Programme, which received Belgian support of 7.5 million euros in 2020, and the Disaster Relief Emergency Fund (DREF) of the International Federation of the Red Cross and the Red Crescent Association, which received Belgian support of 1.5 million euros in 2020. Both the IRA and the DREF were able to provide humanitarian aid to the region. We are also in contact with our European colleagues. DG ECHO, which is responsible for humanitarian aid operations in the European Union, regularly monitors the situation but has not yet materialised its aid on the ground. To date, we have no information on discussions for the establishment of a European contact point on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u4	Thank you very much, minister, for the evidence you provided, in a substantiated manner. I hear that many discussions are still to be held. I hope that we will have the opportunity, following a resolution to be voted on this afternoon in plenary, to see how we can actually bring our little stone to the building. It is a wish that I also wish for next year. I want to talk not only about our responsibility to ensure pacification in the region, but also about how we can help in a humane and concrete way in terms of infrastructure. Thank you and I wish you all a good and happy end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u5	Madam Minister, Belgium is indirectly providing aid to the affected region. That is, of course, very much appreciated. I have heard that the Flemish government has also released money, albeit through an NGO. We dare to press for a further step. I understand that for the sake of covid it will not be easy to send cargo or personnel that are needed here too, but an extra contribution and as a Belgian government literally sending medical and logistical assistance on the spot would be a nice gesture.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u6	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A motion of recommendation was tabled by Mrs Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, heard the interplay of Mrs Ellen Samyn and the reply of the Minister for Development Cooperation, in charge of Great Cities, - as the medical situation in the affected area is very serious, - having regard to the deliberate destruction by the Turkish-Azeric offensive of civilian targets including schools, hospitals, churches and historical monuments; - because the winter period as well as the covid pandemic threaten the residents of Artsakh without sufficient humanitarian, medical and logistical assistance in a hopeless situation; - having regard to the fact that the French Government has already set a good example and sent several cargo flights with medical equipment, a mobile unit (for 500 people care), blankets, hygiene kits, health products, clothing and toys to the region in need; asks the government to provide direct, humanitarian, medical and logistical assistance to the affected civilian population in the affected area." A motion for recommendation was tabled by Ms. Ellen Samyn and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiry of Ms Ellen Samyn and the response of the Minister for Development Cooperation, responsible for the Greater Cities, - in view of the extremely serious medical situation in the affected area; - the deliberate destruction – by the combined offensive of Turkey and Azerbaijan – of civilian targets, including schools, hospitals, churches and historical monuments; - in view of the desperate situation that threatens the people of Artsakh during this winter and the pandemic of covid-19 if they do not receive sufficient humanitarian, medical and logistical assistance; - in view of the good example already given by the French Government, which has already sent several aircraft to the disaster-stricken region, carrying medical equipment, a mobile unit (to care for 500 people), blankets, hygiene kits, sanitary products, clothing and toys; asks the government to provide direct humanitarian, medical and logistical assistance to the civilian population of the affected region." A simple motion was tabled by Mrs Vicky Reynaert. A simple motion was tabled by Ms. Vicky Reynaert. The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u7	Madam Minister, my question concerns land grabbing in the northern and north-eastern departments of Haiti. The current situation in Haiti has been critical for several years. For a long time and especially since Jovenel Moïse's government was set up in 2017, many problems of respect for human rights, the rule of law, democracy, impunity and corruption have been denounced by civil society and multilateral actors. In addition to this, the economic policies implemented by the Haitian State are in violation of the rights of local people and to the detriment of the environment, historical and cultural heritage and local agriculture. After the earthquake of January 12, 2010, multinational companies, the Haitian state and local businessmen developed mega projects contrary to the fundamental interests of local people: mining, industrial processing, tourism and agro-industrial zones. These projects are often accompanied by persecution, violence, intimidation and land grabbing. This is reflected in a recent note published in November 2020 by a dozen farmers' rights organisations after carrying out an observation mission in the northern and north-eastern departments of the country. The peasants were then extorted from their land by false title and thus deprived of their right to own property, to cultivate and to feed themselves. I had already questioned your colleague Mr. From Croo in July 2020 about armed attacks against the Haitian association SOFA, which is cultivating land now coveted for the implementation of an agro-industry project. The situation in Haiti is urgent and requires a response from our country and international bodies. It is time for us to act to restore a democratic and security situation in that country. Madam Minister, in your policy statement, you have committed yourself to food security and support for small farms. My questions are as follows. The Belgian Embassy was visiting in the north of Haiti from 1 to 3 December. Will you pay particular attention to the problem of land grabbing in this area? In general, I would like to know what the discussions were about. What will be your strategy to help fight land grabbing in Haiti? Do you have any specific support for Haitian civil society?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u8	Madame de Laveleye, thank you for your question. Ms. rl'ambassadrice and the first secretary of the Embassy went on a mission to Haiti. In addition to participating in the strategic dialogue in Haiti with Belgian NGOs, high-level visits are also organized to discuss the situation in the country. The ambassador raised this issue with the Prime Minister, Joseph Jouthe, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Claude Joseph, during his visit to Haiti. The letter sent by our embassy specifically on the case of SOFA, the Haitian partner of Entraide & Fraternité, has also been handed over. A meeting was also held with the Director of the Centre for Agricultural Reform in Haiti, who is responsible for the problem of land grabbing. This institute is fully aware of the importance of this issue and is committed to the fight against land grabbing and the support of family agriculture in Haiti. However, the weakness of the judicial system and the general climate of impunity, among other things, make it sometimes difficult for the Institute to achieve the desired results. Several field visits were made to the north and north-east of the country. Three projects of the NGO Entraide & Fraternité were visited and a meeting was held with its local partners to discuss this problem and the reaction of the Belgian authorities. Over the period 2017-2021, we will continue to financially support the five-year Entraide & Fraternité programme, whose local partners are the main victims of this land grabbing. Preparation of the new Common Strategic Framework (CSF) for Haiti is currently under way. New five-year programmes may be included in this CSC for the period 2022-2026. After analysis and possible approval, these will also be supported financially by Belgian Development Cooperation. In this way, we are trying to strengthen the entire Haitian civil society.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u9	Madam Minister, thank you very much. I believe that the fact that diplomacy and your services maintain a very close link with local civil society and through the partnerships of our NGOs is obviously a good signal and the right strategy to follow. It is known that civil society has a key role to play when in fragile states, especially at the political level. It is really the structures par excellence that must be supported. I am pleased to learn that significant attention has been paid to the field partners and to know that a CSC for Haiti is still under construction. I do hope – and we will return to this issue through a future issue later on in the agenda – that particular attention will be paid to such fragile states at the level of state structures so that civil society receives the support it deserves. We would be happy to have the results of this next CSC in the coming months. Thank you very much for your interest in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u10	Mrs Depoorter is not present at the moment for her question No. 55011177C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u11	Madam President, Madam Minister, last April the Member States of the G20 and the Paris Club, including Belgium, announced the temporary suspension of some of the debts contracted by 73 countries that are among the poorest. The moratorium took effect on 1 May and covered 14 billion bilateral debts according to IMF and World Bank data. On 22 November, the G20 Heads of State agreed to an extension of the freeze until 30 June. This agreement is reflected in the establishment of a "common framework for debt treatment" to which even China, which accounts for 63% of the debt owed to the G20 nations, has joined forces. If the will appears to be ambitious, however, the shortcomings are not lacking. Some countries, such as Sudan, Eritrea, Zimbabwe or Syria, are excluded from the scheme because their repayments to the IMF are not up to date. There is no need to draw a drawing to understand the reasons. There is no indication at this stage of how the monitoring of agreements with creditors will be conducted. Finally, there is the question of the participation of private donors who held 65 per cent of the total external debt of the South in 2019. The recent example of Zambia, which is currently in default of payment due to the refusal of private lenders to accept a postponement, illustrates this difficulty. The decision taken by the G20 should be welcomed, but we know that it will not be enough. In the words of the Eurodad network, the interim solution is, in a way, to get the Titanic with a bucket. I know, Madam Minister, that you share this analysis. That is what your general policy note says. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. How does Belgium intend to convince the World Bank and the IMF to commit themselves to cancellation? What will be your strategy to engage private actors in this movement? Now, in the European context, will you plead for the European Union to urge the G20 to revise its ambitions upwards?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u12	Madam President, Madam Minister, my question is very similar, except that I also asked you about Belgian bilateral debts.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u13	Madam Chair, Mr. Ben Achour, Mrs. de Laveleye, thank you for your questions. The situation is worrying. It is clear that the current measures, including the temporary suspension of certain debts, will not be sufficient for many countries and that structural initiatives are needed. At the same time, the situation is extremely complex. Thus, the private sector plays a much more important role than before. In some countries, most of the debt is held by private investors. It is not enough to kindly ask them to participate in structural debt relief initiatives. On the one hand, a joint approach under the IMF programme will increase the chances of participation by private creditors. On the other hand, binding measures are needed. Belgium occupies a unique position. In 2016, this Parliament took a pioneering initiative to cut wings to vultures. This measure, supported by almost all the political groups in this Parliament, is internationally recognised. It clearly shows that national initiatives have a significant impact. I call on the European Union and the international community to take similar steps. A multilateral and structural approach is also essential. The IMF and the World Bank play a central role in the development and implementation of these structural measures. Their respective directorates have repeatedly stressed the need for more structural provisions and called for action. This appeal is supported by Belgium. As oversight of the World Bank is exercised jointly with the Minister of Finance, I would like to engage in a dialogue in order to achieve a coherent approach. I have also asked my administration to set up an interdepartmental working group that will also use the expertise of academia and civil society. The aim is to formulate concrete actions, both bilaterally and multilaterally. Belgium continues to advocate for a more ambitious European approach. That is why I strongly advocated additional measures by "Team Europe" at the Council of Development Ministers on 23 November. I will closely monitor the development of this issue in the weeks and months to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you. I found your answer reassuring, at least in terms of ambition. I think, worse than not doing anything, there's pretending to do something useful. I think it's better not to do anything than pretend to do something useful. I refer to a carte blanche that was published in the French-speaking press, co-signed by Entraide & Fraternité, Oxfam Belgium, the Committee for the Abolition of Illicit Debts and the CNCD-11.11.11. This text published on 30 November is necessarily very critical of the G20's approach. He recalled that the moratorium would be insufficient, since it had so far covered only 1.68 per cent of the repayments due in 2020 from all the so-called developing countries. I repeat: worse than not doing anything, there is pretending to do something useful. We count on you, of course, to convey this message and increase the ambition of the international community on this crucial issue, which is vital for the development of the countries of the South.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u15	Thank you very much, Minister. This is not the first time you have shared with us your concern to move forward on this issue. We did not expect these questions. We saw that you spoke on social media, and perhaps even in the press. Maybe I missed those interventions. It's important because you're sending a very strong signal. We are a small country but we still have an important role to play. I think the message you're sending is clear. We must remember that the covid crisis is very serious in the so-called countries of the South. When we see how much resources they spend on debt repayment compared to what they spend on the primary needs of their people, we know as you do that we need to find solutions quickly. Indeed, the moratorium only affects very few countries at present. In addition, it puts them in the position of having to negotiate contracts with the IMF or the World Bank. It is well known that these contracts are very rarely for the benefit of countries that have to repay debts. That is why we encourage you to continue really on the path you announced in your general policy note, which we welcome once again, and which is to find quick solutions, both in terms of multilateral debts and bilateral debts. Belgium remains a creditor. I have sent you a written question and I think I will receive the answer to it in the next few days, as soon as your services are ready. We must be able to examine what amounts we are talking about in terms of Belgian bilateral debts and how we can move forward in this area. I stress that we are a small country but that we can make a difference by having useful and supportive practices for those countries that need them so much today. Thank you for what you've already started. We will remain in dialogue at Parliament level on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u16	Minister, since 2007, sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRDS) have been on the agenda of Belgian Development Cooperation. Political attention has since increased with the inclusion of SSRs in the Development Cooperation Act as well as in gender and health strategies and in the DGD's humanitarian aid policy strategy. By endorsing Agenda 2030, Belgium has made a commitment with other UN member states to end the HIV epidemic by 2030. We still have ten years, even if we are facing another pandemic epidemic. In terms of HIV, 9 of Belgium's 14 partner countries are currently facing a widespread epidemic. And in these partner countries, several groups are also affected by concentrated epidemics. Despite the urgency, in recent years we have seen a sharp decrease in total expenditures on health and reproductive health that contribute to the fight against HIV, measured using the HIV marker. Compared to the 2016 spending year, we see in 2019 a half reduction in spending that can benefit the fight against HIV. Minister, in your policy statement you say that "sexual and reproductive rights and health care remain a vital priority", which we welcome. How do you intend to increase your attention to HIV, in the context of sexual and reproductive health and rights? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u17	Minister, Sensoa International released its annual report on Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid (DGD) expenditures on sexual and reproductive rights and the fight against the AIDS virus in 2019. Other agencies such as Oxfam had also conducted analyses on the subject. This report recalls several disturbing facts. For example, in low- and middle-income countries, 111 million pregnancies per year are unplanned and nearly 300,000 women die in connection with complications related to pregnancy or childbirth. In sub-Saharan Africa, four out of five new infections are diagnosed among girls. Yet, through Agenda 2030, the international community is committed to ensuring universal access to sexual and reproductive health by 2030, as well as to eradicating the HIV epidemic. However, it must be recognized that the implementation of this agenda is too slow and that the covid-19 pandemic is likely to undermine the progress already made. Based on the results of the analysis, the share of aid allocated to reproductive health and health in total DGD expenditure is decreasing. Since 2016, we have been facing a steady decline to reach 11.08 per cent of DGD spending in 2019. In addition, the report shows a one-quarter decrease in resources allocated to sexual and reproductive health in 2019 compared to the level recorded at the beginning of the previous legislature. Finally, the report shows a halving of expenditures that can benefit the fight against HIV between 2016 and 2019. The report does, however, mention positively that the share of resources allocated to reproductive, maternal, neonatal and child health (SGMNI) has increased in recent years, stressing, however, that it is not possible to identify the factors that contribute specifically to sexual and reproductive health. In connection with the government agreement, which recalls the priority given to reproductive and sexual health, what percentage of our official development assistance (ODA) will you allocate to this priority in 2021? Do you think you can allocate more resources to the fight against HIV? How do you think you can clarify how much ODA actually goes to reproductive and sexual health? Can an approach be taken to the OECD Development Assistance Committee (DAC) to raise awareness of the limitations of the GMNI markers?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u18	Dear colleague, I thank you for your interest in the health of Development Cooperation and the situation of people living with HIV. We appreciate Sensoa's annual reports. Expenditure on sexual and reproductive health shows a stagnation in 2017, compared to 2016. The expenditure also reflects the programming cycles of the cooperation actors. Meanwhile, new bilateral cooperation programmes, with considerable budgets, have been developed specifically in the area of health and sexual and reproductive rights, including HIV. These are programmes in Benin, Guinea, Burkina Faso, Rwanda and Senegal. Bilateral cooperation, via Enabel, allocated a budget of 18.5 million euros in 2018 and the following year, a total of 53.8 million euros for sexual and reproductive health and law programmes. This represented more than 40% of this reserved budget in 2019. This reflects the importance attached by Belgian Cooperation in support of girls and women in our partner countries to the realization of their sexual and reproductive health rights. To answer Ms. de Laveleye's question about the percentage of official development assistance to be allocated to this priority in 2021, it is important to know that the budget envelopes are not allocated in advance by sector. The budget that will be spent will also depend on the proposals that we receive from Belgian actors. This is especially relevant for indirect actors since they have a right of initiative, as you know. Nevertheless, the health sector is the largest recipient of Belgian official development assistance. A considerable number of multilateral partners are active in the health and sexual and reproductive health sectors, including UNFPA, the Global Fund to Fight HIV, Tuberculosis and Malaria, UNAIDS and WHO. In addition, many organizations also contribute to health, such as UNICEF, which is a key partner in immunization campaigns. With regard to the issue of attention to the fight against HIV, our attention is reflected in different ways, but remains important in the context of sexual and reproductive health. Belgium promotes an integrated approach to health to ensure that people living with HIV have access to antiretroviral therapy. It also promotes non-discrimination of particularly affected people, including drug users, sex workers and the LGBTQI community. Belgium also continues to fund specialized multilateral organizations, such as UNAIDS, and the Global Fund to Fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. The HIV pandemic will not be resolved solely through investments in treatment. In this context, Belgium calls for increased attention to prevention and supports integrated prevention in the health system, for example by promoting the increased use of condoms to protect against unwanted pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases, including HIV. I would also point out that Belgium stimulates an approach based on the right to universal access to health, including access to sexual and reproductive health for adolescent girls. To this end, Belgium encourages greater links between organizations working on HIV, universal access to health and sexual and reproductive health and rights. Finally, to answer the question concerning the OECD classification for public aid expenditure, extremely detailed instructions for use have been developed for the OECD and are available online and from the administration. The OECD Development Assistance Committee regularly revises its marker system, which, like all markers, has strengths and weaknesses. Very often, the need for over-detailed systems generates more effort and increases the risk of error. On the other hand, the information collected may not be complete and ultimately not be used as a whole. The data collected and coded through the markers give us a close overview of the reality, allowing us to monitor in an acceptable way the expenditure of official development assistance for generic, maternal, neonatal and child health.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u19	Madam President, I wanted to thank the minister for the quality of her answer and, above all, for the very comprehensive nature of it. I note the Minister's willingness to continue the attention and refinancing of what is possible in the fight against HIV and sexually transmitted diseases and to defend sexual and reproductive rights in countries that benefit from development cooperation. Minister, you have placed particular emphasis on prevention. I fully agree with you, especially since one of the obstacles to the prevention and availability of treatment is sometimes alongside governments that are doing their job well, with health ministers in the co-operative countries that are setting up, through clinics and hospitals, everything that can be done to be able to use prevention tools. On Sunday, on the other hand, it is noted that religious authorities often hold a discourse that is quite the opposite of what state institutions, international institutions and developing countries, and here the development of sexual and reproductive rights, are boasting. It is therefore obviously not easy to fight this way of doing things, but I think that with dialogue with States and with religious authorities, we could improve the fight against HIV on a sustainable basis and, above all, improve the sexual and reproductive health of these populations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u20	Madam Minister, I also thank you for the amount of information you have been able to share with us. It was important to stress that the priority given to reproductive and sexual health and the fight against HIV/AIDS depends on efforts at the multilateral level, but on which you have a form of autonomy with regard to the allocation of amounts and the level of direct bilateral assistance, where there is also a sustained dialogue with Enabel to guide the amounts. It is interesting to stress this. Secondly, there are civil society actors who set their priorities, but it is clear that civil society is also paying attention to these issues and is only asking to be a partner in this reflection and struggle. I understand that the breakdown of percentages cannot be defined from the outset, but it can still be a political horizon. We had not gone as far as that in the government agreement, but I think it was the concern shared by the various parties to be able to see a priority through numerical data. During the last legislature, interesting things had been carried out by Mr. De Croo, but it didn't get through the numbers. Between the political will and the figures on the table, you will ensure that a reorientation is noticed. I still insist on markers. You say: "Be careful not to be too detailed, because this poses a risk"! I totally agree with you. You can go crazy when you fill in the reports and check the different boxes, but there is some sort of consensus that there is not enough transparency. However, good monitoring and good management of these priorities necessarily requires a good visibility of the resources allocated, which is why I would like to see attention paid to dialogues with the OECD in the future. Thank you again for all the information and follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u21	Madam Chair, I will not have as many questions each time, but this was the first real sitting. There's definitely a lot of them. This issue is directly related to current events. Last December 10 was the anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted in 1948. This Human Rights Day aims to highlight human rights, their importance, the respect they receive and the violations they are subjected to throughout the world. Although the objective of their defence is widely shared on the planet, human rights violations are still very numerous. In many countries of the world, human rights defenders are intimidated, harassed, illegally arrested, attacked and even often murdered. Civil society is facing a trend described as a shrinking civic space. For example, 72 years have passed since the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but there are still too many people sacrificed for their cause: 304 human rights defenders were reportedly murdered in 2019, according to reports made at the International Memorial for Human Rights Defenders. These already far too high figures, however, do not reflect the reality, which seems much more worrying. So these are my questions, minister. In December 2019, a Claiming back civic space conference was held at the initiative of Foreign Affairs and Development Cooperation. The recommendations, which were still very broad at the time, could already be incorporated, in one way or another, into Belgian cooperation strategies. If so, how? What is the state of implementation? You mention in your policy note the project to carry out a study of mechanisms for the protection of human rights defenders. What is the status of the implementation of the Convention? What will be the composition of the study group, if we already know it? What is the time frame for this study, and on which countries, if you already know, will this study be carried out? I understand that I am asking you a question quite quickly in the run-up to your mandate and I can understand that we are not there yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u22	Madam President, Mrs de Laveleye, as you rightly say, the civic space for non-governmental organisations and their partners is increasingly being reduced in many of the partner countries of Belgian Development Cooperation. This hinders them not only in their work to demand accountability and transparency from the government, but also in their struggle to achieve the sustainable development goals at the heart of the 2030 Agenda. Governments regularly use measures to strengthen their control over civil society. In autocratic regimes, this trend can stifle civil society. In my policy, I will pay particular attention to the principles of civic space, i.e. the strengthening of space for civil society. This theme will be an important focus. I will look at how we can put into practice the recommendations of the study of the Claiming back civic space conference, held in 2019, in collaboration with the CNCD-11.11.11 and the ECDPM study office. In the coming weeks, I would like to develop a more concrete action plan with my administration. I am thinking, for example, of integration and capacity-building initiatives within my services, of concrete initiatives with multilateral and European partners, and of financing specific initiatives on civic space and human rights defenders. The recommendations of the Claiming back civic space study carried out by the ECDPM study office are a good starting point for thinking about concrete measures to preserve and broaden the scope of civil society. Several countries and organizations have already established their human rights protection mechanisms. This is particularly true of our neighbouring countries – France and the Netherlands – but also of the European Union and various non-governmental organisations. I intend to launch a study in early 2021 that will analyze different mechanisms, their strengths and weaknesses, in order to set up our own mechanism. Analysis of needs and opportunities could also be carried out in different countries of our bilateral cooperation. The Belgian mechanism should be complementary to existing arrangements. This study will form part of a broader research project already under way on the operationalization of our development cooperation approach to human rights. The first results of the analysis are expected by June 2021, the final report by the end of 2021. Finally, I would like to point out that in 2020 grants were granted to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to ensure, inter alia, respect for human rights in the context of the Government's response to the covid-19 pandemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u23	Minister, no one claims that it is easy to answer these issues. Above all, it is not Belgium that can imagine by itself the best ways to defend human rights defenders. However, as Belgian civil society is very active in supporting NGOs in different countries, we are necessarily particularly sensitive to these issues, since the direct partners of our Belgian NGOs financed by official development assistance are directly the targets of the abuses committed against the people. This puts more pressure on our shoulders and encourages us to pay close attention. Thank you for having a clear vision of the various stages of the coming year and for having already planned a strategy for the coming months. It would be really interesting if we could have some feedback in Parliament on how things are moving forward. I will share your answer with all the actors in the "Defend the defenders" campaign that took place last week. I know that the academic sector is also working very hard on the subject. I think you're also in dialogue with him. We should be able to move forward in flexibility with answers if not perfect at least in the coming months. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u24	I see that Mr De Vriendt is not present, not even digitally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u25	Madam Minister, in a recent parliamentary resolution, Parliament asked the government to make additional financial contributions to the humanitarian crisis in Idlib on top of EUR 14 million for the two Syria-specific UN humanitarian funds. Instead of additional resources, the Belgian contribution to both funds would decrease from EUR 14 million to EUR 9 million in 2021. My question is therefore very simple. Madam Minister, will you take the necessary steps in the coming weeks to fully respect and implement the parliamentary resolution in the form of an additional financial effort for the humanitarian situation in Idlib, which is still very difficult? I therefore ask you to consider doing something additional for both United Nations humanitarian Syria funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u26	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt's collaborator indicated at the beginning of the sitting that he should be present in plenary, but I will reply to both questions. I had the honor of meeting the creators of For Sama a few weeks ago. Their story really hit me. Their testimonies about the lack of humanitarian access spoke volumes. I will therefore continue to argue in my policy for timely, secure, sustainable and unhindered humanitarian access to Syria as a whole. With regard to the question about our country's international efforts, I would like to emphasise Belgium's commitment to the UN Security Council on humanitarian access in and to Syria. As we leave the Security Council, it is very important that we continue to use this expertise over the last two years in international fora, so that humanitarian access can be achieved and humanitarian aid can be provided in the most efficient way possible. I will therefore pursue a coherent policy in this respect, in coordination with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would point out that additional resources were made available for humanitarian aid throughout Syria, including interventions in the north-west of Syria. In addition to the award of EUR 2.3 million to UNRWA for emergency cash assistance to vulnerable Palestinian refugees, funding of EUR 1 million was also granted to the ICRC to support basic health care to meet critical needs, inter alia linked to the growing needs of COVID-19. Belgium also committed to flexible funds in 2020. For example, our country contributed 7 million euros to both the Syrian Humanitarian Fund and the Syrian Cross-border Humanitarian Fund. In addition, Belgium contributed some 22 million euros to the Central Emergency Response Fund in 2020. Strengthening such UN funds will allow for a greater, faster and more coordinated response based on needs, including in Idlib. For example, in 2020, at least 115 million dollars from the aforementioned funds for Syria went to Idlib. From the CERF, USD 56.8 million was granted to Syria in 2020, a significant part of which was for interventions in the northwest and northeast of Syria, including the Idlib region. Next year, we will continue to focus on flexible funds. Last week I announced a contribution of €17 million to the CERF for 2021 and we renewed our commitment to the EU Madad Fund. We also continue to support the humanitarian funds for the whole of Syria, through a contribution to both the Syrian Humanitarian Fund and the Syrian Cross-border Humanitarian Fund. What specific contributions do we make to this, is still under consideration. A reduction in the contribution to the Syrian Cross-border Humanitarian Fund is likely because, unlike last year, there is currently no humanitarian aid going through the Fund to the north-east of Syria. It is important that we can provide humanitarian aid for the entire Syrian territory. Alternatives for humanitarian aid to north-east Syria for 2021 are under consideration. In addition to the contribution to flexible funds, Belgium will also contribute to humanitarian aid programmes from Belgium's humanitarian partners in Syria in 2021. I am very aware of the humanitarian needs in Idlib and of the continuing humanitarian needs throughout Syria. Humanitarian partners regularly remind us of the challenges of humanitarian emergency aid in Syria. The specific difficulties, the context and the way in which work is to be carried out vary widely from region to region. We are currently looking at how, in 2021, we can best respond to the needs of the people in north-west and south Syria, as well as in the north-east of Syria, where humanitarian access is now becoming very difficult.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u27	Madam Minister, thank you for your full and detailed answer, which also provides an insight into the way in which evaluation is carried out and resources are allocated. I note that the funds from the UN humanitarian fund do not go to Idlib alone. You are right that an evaluation is needed; this also needed to be clarified in relation to the umbrella of NGOs, which are asking for this. In this sense, it is good that you reconsider and consider what is possible in the future. The situation is still very serious. Here Murphy's law applies: Syrians are on the run and are confronted with corona and floods, while there are no corridors where assistance can be provided and border crossings are closed. We must therefore remain vigilant and I welcome the fact that you are following the situation closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u28	Madam Secretary, COVAX is the vaccine pillar, a global collaboration of the WHO and the Melissa & Bill Gates Foundation, among others, to accelerate the development, production and equitable access to COVID-19 tests, treatments and vaccines. More than 170 countries have already joined the initiative and more than two billion dollars have already been collected to jointly purchase and distribute COOVID-19 vaccines. The aim of COVAX is to vaccinate health professionals throughout the world, at 3 % of the population and at risk patients, at 20% of the population. The European Commission contributes a total of EUR 500 million to COVAX, but meanwhile the rich countries are going to run the drug deals and reserve them for themselves. Canada reserved 9 doses per citizen, the US 7, the UK and Australia each 6, the EU 5. COVAX reserved only 0.3 doses per inhabitant for the 92 low and middle income countries. The EU alone has already ordered 1.5 billion vaccines for 500 million inhabitants. COVAX ordered between 300 and 700 million doses for more than three billion people in the 92 countries. So you can see that there is a clear imbalance. In Belgium, we can normally vaccinate 70% of our population by the end of 2021, but in poor countries it will wait until 2023 or 2024. The inequality is also going through this. Hence the following questions, Madam Secretary. What measures will you take to strengthen the COVAX initiative and ensure that the most vulnerable are also given equal opportunities to be vaccinated around the world? Will you argue within the EU to significantly increase the contribution to the COVAX initiative? What contribution will Belgian Development Cooperation make? What measures will you take to address the logistical problems of vaccination in developing countries, as the vaccine needs low temperatures. That's harder in a country with a weak health system.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u29	Thank you for your interest in this complex yet very important issue of vaccination against COOVID-19. We are starting from a based approach to ensure that citizens have a say in their development process and we are also defending the principle of leaving no one behind. In the context of the COVID-19 vaccine, this means ensuring that the weakest and the poorest are not forgotten. A future COOVID-19 vaccine will only be effective if there is fair access to the vaccine worldwide, in particular through the protection of health professionals and those at greatest risk. International solidarity is therefore necessary to tackle the pandemic. Given the extent of the COVID-19 pandemic and its serious impact on the population, only an international approach will help to tackle this pandemic. If the disease continues to spread to countries that do not have access to treatment or vaccine, countries with a high vaccination rate will remain vulnerable. I quote the UN Secretary-General Guterres: 'No country is safe and healthy until all countries are safe and healthy'. Scientists and public health experts agree that the development, large-scale production and widespread distribution of an effective vaccine against COVID-19 are important steps to put an end to the pandemic. The biggest challenge of the vaccine will be the capacity of large-scale production to ensure that it is available to all, including those countries that cannot buy it directly. Currently, COVAX AMC is the vaccination pillar for the Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator, a multilateral initiative working with governments and manufacturers to ensure that COVID-19 vaccines are available in a very large number of countries, both high and low-income. Belgium indirectly contributes to access to vaccines for all through the European Union budget. Thanks to the funding of COVAX by the European Union, the 27 Member States participate fully in the COVAX initiative. We will also support this bilaterally as soon as vaccines are available through this initiative. At European level, we also encourage constructive dialogue with pharmaceutical companies. At this stage, it is important to increase the production capacity of vaccines if we want access to the vaccine. We believe it is important that the pharmaceutical industry represents people's lives for profit in such exceptional situations. Belgium continues to focus on basic public services in developing countries, in particular universal access to health care as a general good. Vaccination is an important part of preventive health care. Due to the urgency this year, the global focus is currently on developing a vaccine against COVID-19, but other health problems, such as measles, malaria and so on, are not going away. Health systems have also been undermined in Belgium's partner countries. That is why we continue to work towards an integrated approach and the strengthening of the health system in general. We mainly support partner countries' national programmes for the introduction of vaccination. Belgian development cooperation supports UN organisations such as UNICEF, the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the World Health Organisation, which contributes to vaccinations through the health systems of countries. In addition, all other activities in the fields of logistics, community involvement and awareness of vaccination are carried out by development actors and through technical assistance. I will conclude with your question about the logistics of the vaccination. The logistical issue is complex. We are dealing with a global crisis, so it concerns all countries. There are several vaccines under development, with different stockage modalities, and the capacity to manage the vaccinations is also very different. In addition, Belgium often works in a fragile and humanitarian context that makes it even more difficult. It is clear that Belgium does not intend to organise the logistics of vaccinations alone, which is a collective and global effort. Organisations such as WHO and Gavi as well as the bodies of the Ministry of Health specialize in vaccination logistics and are best placed to do so. COVAX and the WHO's fair allocation mechanism are the tools to be used to ensure that vaccines end up where they are most needed. The countries receiving the vaccines must also be ready to receive them. In this sense, the strengthening of the health system through our traditional partners remains very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your detailed reply. We can agree with Guterres that no country is safe and healthy if not all countries are safe and healthy. That's gonna be a big challenge. Above all, I hear you say that we need to find the solution multilaterally in order to be able to vaccinate everyone. You have given various examples of how this is being prepared. However, it is important that we are very vigilant in this respect. We are indeed very much engaged in our own vaccination programmes, which means that we do not realize that the virus is moving everywhere and that we will only be strong if the virus is eradicated there too. So bilaterally, we have to keep knocking on that nail. This must be done bilaterally and also through the European Council, of which you are probably also a member, in order to put on the table again and again how we deal with the problem. The integrated approach is an absolute priority. In addition to malaria and measles, COOVID-19 will remain a very important point of attention, and we are also being addressed. We are dealing here with development cooperation and the way in which this will be done in the developing countries. We will continue to question you on this and support you on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u31	Minister, the conflict in Western Sahara between Morocco and the Polisario front has been going on for decades. The situation was inflamed on 13 November as a result of the failure to comply with the ceasefire that had been in place for 30 years as a result of the invasion of the Moroccan army in the Guerguerat buffer zone, controlled by the MINURSO mission and prohibited to the Saharawi and Moroccan armies. In the face of the repression of the Saharawi people in Moroccan-occupied territory, west of the sand wall, the International Committee of the Red Cross does not appear to be responding, omitting respect for the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949 relative to the Protection of Civilians in Time of War and its first Additional Protocol, of which Morocco and the Polisario Front are both signatories. Moreover, the ICRC does not have an active observation mission in Moroccan prisons at this time, but it seems that every day the human rights of Saharawi prisoners are violated by the Moroccan authorities. In addition, many Saharans fled the repression and took refuge in camps in Algeria. Although the European Union has increased its financial assistance to the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) to deal with the covid-19 in camps near Tindouf, Algeria, however, international financial assistance has decreased. These recent events are fuelling the dormant fire but still well present in the region. For nearly 30 years, the United Nations has been in charge of organizing the referendum for the self-determination of the Saharawi people, in vain. So, are you going to use the levers at your disposal to give the necessary impetus to the UN to resume the organization of the referendum on the self-determination of Western Sahara? What is Belgium's position with regard to the reduction of these aids, which are essential to the survival of Saharawi refugees? Does the ICRC have plans of action to provide humanitarian assistance to the Saharan civilian population in occupied Saharawi territory in accordance with the 1949 Geneva Convention? Why did he not intervene during the invasion of Guerguerat on 13 November 2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u32	Madame de Laveleye, thank you for this question. As Minister for Development Cooperation, I encourage all efforts that can lead to a peaceful solution. At the UN Security Council level, the various Foreign Affairs departments are following this issue closely and ensuring that the Belgian position is reflected in it. Our country has therefore endorsed the statements of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, António Guterres, on the importance of continuing to respect the 1991 ceasefire agreement. Belgium stressed the important role of the MINURSO mission and expressed concern at the increasing violence despite the ceasefire. Belgium also called for the prompt appointment of a new envoy for Western Sahara. Belgium attaches great importance to the human dimension of the conflict in Western Sahara. We encourage the parties concerned to make the necessary efforts to ensure the protection of human rights and humanitarian conditions in Western Sahara and the Tindouf refugee camp and to cooperate more closely with the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. We regret the decline in humanitarian aid to respond to the ongoing crisis of several decades, a humanitarian assistance which is essential for the lives of the Saharawi refugees. Belgium is committed to rapid, flexible and effective humanitarian aid. Therefore, even if Belgium does not directly support organisations in particular for this crisis, our humanitarian assistance is provided to populations in need indirectly through flexible funding either through humanitarian funds or as general resources that we allocate to recognized international organisations. Thanks to this flexible funding, international humanitarian organizations are free to use this funding to respond to sudden crises according to the most pressing needs. Unfortunately, the gap between the global level of humanitarian financing and global humanitarian needs is widening. According to the information in my possession, the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) has priority in 2020 for this region to provide emergency care to injured persons in Western Sahara and physical rehabilitation services to disabled Saharans, but also to raise awareness of international humanitarian law and humanitarian concerns in that region and to strengthen the capacity of the Saharawi Red Crescent to respond to humanitarian needs. In Morocco, ICRC was working on the dissemination of international humanitarian law among government officials, armed forces commanders and security forces. It is also in dialogue with the authorities and security forces to advance the cooperation of their detention-related activities and to share its technical expertise with a view to improving the living conditions of detainees. In 2020, our flexible contribution to the ICRC amounted to €8.5 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u33	I would like to welcome the fact that Belgium has been quite clear at the international level about its position on the resumption of conflicts. Nevertheless, this is a conflict that is largely unknown and not followed up at international level, and I believe that Belgium must be careful and clear about what is happening on the spot. Of course, we are pleased that Belgium chooses to support flexible and multilateral funds and leaves the initiative for large agencies to define where priority needs are. We are indeed lacking the means to make decisions in this regard, and I therefore believe that this strategy is the right one. I hope that Belgium will continue to be heard as long as necessary on this issue and that we will contribute, within the United Nations, to finding a lasting and peaceful solution, as you have pointed out.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u34	Minister, since my question is more technical, I will refer to question number 55011702C, as drafted and hear your answer if it is good for you?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u35	Madame de Laveleye, we share your concerns on these issues. In my policy note, it is clear that development aid is not dependent on migration. The figures for cooperation should not be inflated with budgets that were not aimed at sustainable development. At the OECD-EU,? A working group was set up to discuss the topic of accounting for migration activities. Belgium will participate in this group and advocate for a position that promotes the development of partner countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u36	Excuse me, do you know when this working group will take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u37	It will be launched before the end of 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u38	Before the end of this year? All right! We met with the Development Assistance Committee as part of the peer review, whose results, to the best of my knowledge, have not yet been received.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u39	The peer review? I think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u40	We'll check it out. I find it really interesting that a working group is set up in the coming weeks, and I will allow myself to come back to this point later to know what the benefits are. Some European countries, such as Luxembourg, have made a particularly committed choice. For your part, you have made the choice in your policy note to clearly dissociate migration issues, and we thank you for the clarity of your remarks. I believe, however, that we must move forward in order to allocate real resources to the needs of the people of the South and to avoid us becoming the only country to receive our own aid, because that would not be sustainable. Thank you for your efforts in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u41	Madam Minister, we recently celebrated the 25th anniversary of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership, also referred to as the Barcelona Process because it focused on baptismal fonts at a conference held in this city in 1995, and supplemented in 2004 by the European Neighbourhood Policy (ENP). The aim was "to make the Mediterranean basin an area of dialogue, exchange and cooperation that guarantees peace, stability and prosperity". For sure, after a quarter of a century of existence, the time has come. This is the work undertaken by the CNCD-11.11.11 in a recent publication, and the observation is clear, clear, without blunder: it is a failure. The European Union has not been able to provide satisfactory answers to the democratic aspirations expressed in the Arab spring and the objective of shared prosperity remains at the point of wishful thinking. The CNCD calls for a review of the EU's relations with its southern neighbourhood, taking more account of the achievement of the sustainable development goals. To this end, it proposes a number of guidelines, such as the coherence of development policies, partnership with civil societies in the South Mediterranean countries and the inclusion of young people and women in the actions developed by the European Union in the region. The text of the CNCD concludes with a series of recommendations that I cannot all mention here. By way of example, I shall cite two examples. At the commercial level, "to link the trade and sustainable development chapters of FTACA with complaints and sanctions mechanisms", and as far as human rights are concerned, "to defend the place of a critical civil society". Minister, how do you judge the results of these 25 years of partnership? Have you read the CNCD study? What lessons can you learn from this? What follow-up could be given to the recommendations contained therein, particularly with regard to funding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u42	Mr Ben Achour, thank you for your question. The southern part of the European Union's neighbourhood has always had a privileged place in the relations of the European Union. This is also reflected in the commitments in the new CNCD instrument (?) which will cover the Union's assistance to these partner countries. This instrument gives priority to relations with its neighbourhood. Two thirds of the planned budget will go to the southern neighbourhood. This demonstrates the continued importance of these partnerships. I am well aware of the study by the CNCD, which shows a more than mixed picture. Further analysis is required before recommendations can be implemented. I therefore asked the administration to make its own analysis of these partnerships. In general, greater policy coherence for development and the defence of the role of a critical civil society are priorities of my policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u43	Minister, it is a happy coincidence that this question closes the question-and-answer session, as it provides a bit of a synthesis of a whole series of themes that have already been discussed today. Among the recommendations that we will pay particular attention to, I would like to mention four. First, increase the budget of the new Neighbourhood Instrument within the Multiannual Financial Framework 2021-2027, ensuring that it contributes to the implementation of the sustainable development objectives in the regions concerned. Secondly, to ensure a specific part of this Neighbourhood Instrument to women's rights associations in partner countries, particularly in the areas of health promotion, sexual and reproductive rights and combating violence, as mentioned this afternoon. Thirdly, through their voice in the international financial institutions, take ambitious debt cancellation measures to help countries in the region cope with the current health and economic crises. We talked about it, too. Fourthly, in the "peace, democracy and human rights" section of the study, another recommendation specifically aims to create or preserve spaces for a critical civil society. You have just spoken about it and it seems to me that this was also mentioned this morning with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. That's it, "everything is in everything" but ambition must be maximum.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u44	That is a nice summary of what was said earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-12-16-definitief-55-commissie-ic320x.u45	Madam Secretary, may I thank you for your presence. You have already announced that it is the easiest thing to do for parliamentary questions on the third Wednesday of the month, in the morning. For example, the most active members know it from the first hand. We will try to make it regular, which is a good thing in our preparation. On behalf of the committee, I wish you and everyone else a happy and healthy year-end and new year.
