ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u1	Madam President, Minister, as you know, I introduced a question on this subject, but, being mobilized by the Committee on the Interior at the time when I was supposed to ask you, I was unable to be present and I apologize. I would therefore like to thank you for answering the outstanding questions. You gave an answer to a colleague's question on the same subject, but some of the questions I asked you were still unanswered. Minister, I wanted to share with you my astonishment when I learned of the findings of an Egmont Institute study on the recidivism rate of convicted persons with respect to terrorism. This study concludes at an extremely low rate, while citing other studies that also go in the same direction, but not particularly fine analyses, as well as studies that, on the contrary, have a very high recidivism rate of up to 60%. The author of today's study indicates, with respect to this high rate, that the explanation would lie in the fact that individuals were targeted for recidivism. Personally, I don't know what an individual is more likely or less likely to reoffend. All right! According to the Egmont Institute study, the recidivism rate would therefore be 4.8%, which would represent 27 people among the cases studied. The author further refers to 13 other persons who have committed several terrorist acts but are excluded from the analysis because these acts were allegedly committed over the same period of engagement. For this reason, they are not considered repeat offenders. It would also appear that the comparison was made between individuals all sentenced to sentences of at least five years' imprisonment. Mr Minister, you will agree that after the murderous attacks of 2016, after the work of the commission of inquiry, after the findings that have been made in recent years, notably by the State Security in a 2018 report, after comments made by the Pan-European Network against Radicalisation, the analysis is somewhat surprising. Minister, has an analysis of this study been done by your own services? I know from what you said to the colleagues that it was led by the Egmont Institute and the OCAM. But has an analysis been carried out by your services? What are the findings of your services regarding the terrorist acts and ideological, political or religious tendencies to which terrorists convicted for 30 years in our country and studied by the Egmont Institute? Have the analyses between the categories of offences and the degree of seriousness of the jihadist terrorist acts been carried out by the Belgian services? Could analyses of the same type have been carried out in the context of Plan R? Finally, has the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions already taken additional initiatives at this level in the framework of deradicalization and disengagement programmes, particularly in the Deradex sections?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u2	Madam President, Mr Pivin, as I indicated in my previous reply in committee, the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM) is fully informed of the results of the study mentioned, which is the result of a collaboration between OCAM and the Egmont Institute. For its part, OCAM has prepared a note for its partners based on similar data, namely the study of 181 judgments handed down between 1995 and the end of 2019, linked to Islamist terrorism and involving 557 people. Twenty-four persons received special attention from the OCAM for having been involved in various acts of terrorism spaced in time and separated by trial and detention. The note also highlights the fact that some persons already convicted of terrorist acts subsequently joined terrorist organizations in Syria or Iraq. There are also cases of persons already convicted of terrorist acts, who are currently in pre-trial detention pending a new trial. For some perpetrators, the time between different terrorist offences is several years. Several individuals have shown their ability to move from one jihadist cause to another, forcing us to remain attentive to the attractiveness of the different areas of jihadist conflict in the world. In general, we must remain cautious about the findings of this exercise, bearing in mind that many convictions date from less than five years ago. Although this study focused on Islamist terrorism, monitoring of right-wing and left-wing extremism is part of the tasks of the various working groups within the framework of Plan R. Analyses are regularly prepared for the partner authorities and services. As far as prison monitoring is concerned, as I have already pointed out on many occasions, the Directorate-General for Penitentiaries (DG EPI) is not competent for deradicalisation or disengagement programmes, which fall within the competence of the Communities. However, DG PPE of course cooperates with the competent departments of the Communities to enable them to carry out their work.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u3	Minister, thank you for your full answer. This is indeed a very sensitive issue to which we will all have to remain extremely attentive. In June 2019, together with your European colleagues, you adopted measures to manage radicalisation in prisons and, more specifically, the management of terrorist offenders and violent extremists after their release. As the President knows, we will soon be conducting a number of specialist hearings of which you will be a member – at least, I think – Minister, in order to determine to what extent a new direction should be given to the legislation that we have today. In any event, it is essential to continue the work to combat terrorism and radicalism through these aspects. Above all, this phenomenon should not be relativized.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u4	Minister, since the new Code of Companies and Associations came into force, corporate directors – SA, SCRL and SC – can only carry out their mandate as independent directors. They cannot, in this capacity, be bound to society by a contract of employment. However, it is possible to carry out joint activities as agents and as employees, if there is a clear distinction between functions. However, the social security scheme for employed persons does not exempt the worker from any obligation under the social legislation of self-employed persons. This new provision leaves a doubt in the situation where a director exercises both a director's mandate in a corporation and functions distinct from his or her mandate under a contract of employment. On the one hand, the provision may be regarded as prohibiting a director of a company from being otherwise bound to it by a contract of employment. The idea is that a director must always be able to act independently and therefore cannot, in any way, be in a relationship of subordination to the company of which he is a director. On the other hand, it can be understood as merely confirming the previous jurisprudence of the Court of Cassation, dealing only with the social system of the administrator, which is the social status of self-employed rather than employed. This social law case law also does not prohibit a director from being bound to the same company by a contract of employment relating to functions other than that of director, otherwise performed by the same person within the company. How should this new provision be considered? Can the administrator of a CRLS, SC or SA be bound by a contract of employment and therefore have a subordination relationship with the company in which he or she is acting as an independent administrator, because of the exercise of functions distinct from those of a director? I am thinking, for example, of a function of general management, financial or administrative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u5	Mr Vanden Burre, the reference in Articles 5.70, 6.58 and 7.54 to 25 of the Code of Companies and Associations to the fact that a director cannot in that capacity be an employee merely an explicit rule generally accepted. The reason for its existence is that the system of liability of employees is not compatible with that of directors and that the administrative body cannot exercise an employer's authority vis-à-vis directors in their capacity as directors. The Code of Companies and Associations has therefore not changed anything but only explicit of the existing legal provisions. This does not prevent the person appointed as a director from also being employed in another capacity, in accordance with section 3 of Royal Order ONSS. The fact that a person is subject for social security purposes to the ONSS of salaried workers does not automatically imply that he or she is a salaried worker for the purposes of the Employment Contracts Act. This may be the case, but it is not mandatory. According to the case law of the Court of Cassation, the term of office of administrator may be combined with separate functions performed in connection with an employment contract. This does not pose any problems for the status of salaried workers who exercise a directorship in an approved worker cooperative. Workers of an approved cooperative society may, in their capacity as employees, assume the day-to-day management and management of that cooperative society. In addition, they may also be administrators. The duties of the administrator and the day-to-day management are two distinct tasks. It is only in this capacity that they must now also be independent in terms of accountability. In the case of day-to-day management and management, Article 3 of the Royal Decree ONSS applies, whether they are wage-earners or self-employed persons. Both possibilities exist and will be maintained. They are subject to the social security of salaried workers. Your question was also debated during the discussion of the new Code in this Parliament. You can read the written record in the report of the first reading on pages 140 and 141 of Parliamentary Document No 54/31119/011 of the 2018-2019 session.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for these clarifications that do respond to this concern that was relayed to me by the actors in the sector. I will read this carefully.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u7	Mr.President, Minister, we are in mid-June 2020 and we are approaching the date of the trial of the accused of terrorist attacks committed in our country on March 22, 2016. It must, at this stage, take place in 2021 in front of the court of assizes. This trial will certainly be of exceptional magnitude. Exceptional because of the nature of the charges, exceptional also given the number of accused and especially given the number of victims, since it is necessary to count with the direct victims, but also the indirect victims of these deadly attacks. It would be a matter of spending almost a year: I heard eight months, nine months, one year. This would include, inter alia, a sufficient number of judges available and, above all, a sufficient number of jurors. In this regard, there are more than 100 persons to be appointed as alternates and a jury that would have to answer no less than 38,000 questions, according to Federal Attorney Van Leeuw, who was interviewed on this subject in the Justice Commission. Rest assured, Minister: I do not have so much to ask you this afternoon, but I would still like to receive some clarification in view of the exceptional measures that will have to be taken and the financial and human resources that will have to be provided, mainly at the level of the Assize Court. Could you please tell me how the preparation of this trial is already being organised? Is a specific unit within the Department of Justice in charge of this? Has there already been an estimate of the potential number of victims? How many members of the judiciary, including magistrates, will have to be mobilized to conduct this trial? How many jurors are planned to be appointed? What budget is estimated and planned – I hope – for the holding of the trial and to cover in particular the costs of the salaries of the judiciary, the remuneration and probably also the accommodation of jurors, their protection and the security measures in general? What is your department's estimated length of time to conduct the trial? Is a particular consultation, in the context of contacts with foreign chancelleries and states which may be confronted with such trials, carried out or envisaged? Finally, even considering the exceptional nature of this trial, even considering all the organizational difficulties to be solved, do you think it is impossible to hold it in court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u8	Three working groups have been set up for infrastructure, communication and security with representatives of the judiciary and the police. Contacts with French counterparts are made and allow for the exchange of experiences. There are currently 640 civil party constitutions. At the same time, 337 persons have declared themselves injured and may still file for damages. At the level of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, in addition to the three judges in charge of the case, two other judges will be responsible for the general organization and three others for the monitoring and support of victims throughout the trial. The press team of the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office will also be mobilised to manage the accreditation of journalists. At the level of administrative staff, 15 to 20 out of 81 members will also be involved in this trial. As far as the court is concerned, it will have to be split up at the level of the magistrates. There will be two presidents and four assessors. Staff will also need to be mobilized in large numbers to ensure the registry and the management of rooms and hearings. Currently, the law provides for a maximum of twelve alternate jurors. If the proposed law on various provisions in the field of justice, particularly in the context of the fight against the spread of coronavirus, which is in preparation, is accepted, the threshold may be raised to 24 alternate jurors. An accurate estimate of the budget cannot be given at this time. On the one hand, a large-scale public procurement is under way and, on the other hand, judicial and police personnel will be mobilised, which is part of its recurrent tasks. Finally, a number of costs will be incurred through legal fees. The duration of the trial is estimated to be at least six to eight months. The assessment of the facts requires specific legal knowledge and also requires the evaluation of many complex legal and technical concepts of investigation. The jury has no prior access to the file. It must therefore be explained to him in every detail so that he becomes aware of all the useful elements during the trial. These are autopsy reports, expert reports, various testimonies, etc. Finally, the impact of this unpacking on victims should not be overlooked. Recent trials have shown how many of them have experienced this as an unbearable invasion of their privacy. The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office is in regular contact with foreign authorities who have to deal with similar procedures, even if only for Belgian victims of terrorist acts abroad for which a file is opened, in order to follow up the investigation and assist relatives. As a reminder, in France, terrorism proceedings are tried by professional magistrates. In the Netherlands, a trial such as that of MH 17 in which Belgium is involved is also organised without a jury. The procedural laws are directly applicable in Belgian law. At present, it is always perfectly possible to apply another procedure to judge the attacks of 22 March 2016, especially since the crisis of the coronavirus caused delays in the various French and Belgian agendas. Thank you, Mr. Pivin, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u9	Minister, thank you for that clarification. You will have understood that I am attached to the assize court. If I think that it can and probably still needs to be reformed, I am opposed to its abolition and therefore to the disappearance of the institution of the popular jury. In any case, in the present situation, I do ask myself some questions, too, not about the court of assizes but about the practicality of such a trial at the sitting next year or perhaps later if indeed, one has to endure delays due to the trial of the attacks in Paris. The questions are questions due to the scale of this trial, given the opinions already expressed by some professionals – it is sure that the federal prosecutor is not the least – and also in view of a cost which is apparently not, from what I hear, entirely budgeted but which will certainly be extremely important. At an unprecedented trial, I wonder if we should be looking for a new framework. You're quoting the French system. It is true that the French system of courts of assizes is a system which, in my view, should be considered better because it is a court of assizes composed of professional magistrates who fulfil the role of jury. So the jury doesn't disappear, but it's a professional jury dedicated to terrorist matters. I think it's a system that we probably need to deepen especially if we have a little more time ahead of us. I would like your services to be able to go into this matter as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u10	Mr Minister, my question is quite recent, but it has been overtaken by current events. This weekend I read in the newspaper that the detectives would re-examine 1,200 DNA samples of mostly individuals who were already in the file. Tuesday there was a call to witnesses with a picture in the newspaper. This file is very close to my heart. I'm from around Aalst myself. This file has cut deep into all of us. Even though this file is more than 30 years old, it remains in our collective memory. At the plenary session of 9 January 2020, you announced that you would regularly inform Parliament of the state of the investigation. I think there are some new elements coming up. What's the status of the file? We must, of course, take into account the criminal investigation. It is by no means my intention to put that at risk. At the same plenary session, you announced that the victims would be kept informed. You replied to my written question on this point that the research cell chooses to answer the questions asked by the victims punctually and personally. Sometimes victims have questions, but they don't always know what will happen. Suddenly they see a press release or a call to witnesses appear. Were the victims informed of this in advance? For them, it's a confrontation every time. It is always very difficult to read new developments in the newspaper instead of being first informed about them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u11	Mrs Vanrobaeys, since this is an ongoing judicial investigation, I quote the federal prosecutor, with due regard for the secret of the investigation, "As for the systematic, part of the research is dedicated to the scientific material still present, such as fingerprints, found ammo and weapons, DNA traces. Comparing fingerprints and especially those taken in the past is a monk's work. The federal police are doing wonderful work in this respect, knowing that the comparison was to be done manually. The ballistics research was extended in the sense that competitions also take place with related files. It was also decided to increase the number of experts so that the work can be done more quickly. The DNA search, partly abroad, has not yet been completed. Here, too, we look at related files. In addition, all information received since 2015 was also examined. That's over 1,400 files. This check is almost complete. Four files will be dealt with further. All old tips are also reviewed. The criminal analyses of all the facts dealt with by the investigating judge have been carried out, and the descriptions of the perpetrators and the modus operandi have now been scientifically substantiated. They have provided a great deal of insight into the number of different perpetrators, their description, their conduct and so on, where earlier only what witnesses had seen or heard was being pursued. Finally, most of the research involves working on a number of slopes in terms of content. Nothing shall be communicated concerning its content.' I quote: "Victims could and can always go to both the investigating judge and the federal prosecutor where there is a special service Victim Home. For example, the federal court already helped a number of victims and survivors to obtain compensation. Several files have already been dealt with, others are still in progress. A number of discussions have already been held with the victims who have asked for this. Each time the federal prosecutor receives the feedback that these victims were satisfied with the conversations that were useful and enlightening for them. They did not at any time indicate that they wanted a general periodic debriefing. It is not because something has been written in the newspaper that it can therefore be concluded that the victims should always be informed of the progress made by the newspaper."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u12	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The investigation must not be compromised. In any case, I am pleased that the number of experts has increased so that further progress can be made. The file is due in 2025 and everyone in Aalst, especially the victims, and also the victims from outside Aalst, is still troubled. The truth is important to them. I would like to insist that 'periodic' should not be a fixed periodicity, but the victims should be informed in advance, especially when new steps are taken with the press. Some of the victims have become a little despondent after all these years. They're actually feeling sidelined. In particular, they ask to be informed. This weekend, there wasn't just this news about the judicial investigation. There was also the news about the series that the RTBf and the VRT will make together about the Gang of Nivelles. That is not your responsibility, but each time it is a confrontation for the victims who cut it down and ask themselves many questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u13	Questions Nos 55007153C and 55007161C by Mrs Khattabi were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u14	Madam President, Minister, during the period of confinement, most police areas continued to draw up reports, particularly in situations of domestic violence, despite the containment measures. In an ordinary context, it is already difficult for victims to talk about domestic violence and, moreover, to denounce it; confinement has added a difficulty to the liberation of speech. Many deformed victims will now have easier access to police stations to report the events they have suffered. All the complaints lodged, which will still be lodged in the coming weeks, will, of course, be referred to the public prosecutor's offices in the various judicial districts. At a time when justice is starting to recover from its usual pace, and given the delay in containment in case and hearing management, a number of issues arise. So, minister, how will complaints be handled at the level of the different prosecution offices, if there are many of them? How will prosecutors absorb the number of deferred post-confinement complaints? Has there already been an increase in the number of cases in the public prosecutor's offices? Will additional resources be allocated to avoid overburdening of staff and to meet the expectations of the litigants within a reasonable period of time?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u15	Madam President, Mrs Zanchetta, my answer will be short. With regard to domestic violence, the increase in the number of reports to the various hotlines seems to be gradually reflected in the case files of the public prosecutor's offices. I have not yet received any information from the Public Prosecutor's Office that these files could not be processed within a reasonable time. In view of the information available to me, I cannot, at this stage, give you more details in response to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u16	Minister, my reply will also be rather brief. Your answer surprises me somewhat, although I can understand that you do not yet have figures on this subject. In any event, we will remain attentive because we know that the problem remains real and that the victims will soon pay for the consequences of this confinement, which will not be without repercussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u17	Mr Minister, at the Justice Committee on 19 February, I already drew your attention to GRECO's fifth assessment report on the prevention of corruption and the promotion of integrity in central governments. I stressed the importance of maintaining our vigilance in the fight against corruption and not lowering our guard on the pretext that our country is probably less affected by this phenomenon than others. However, out of the 42 countries that have committed themselves to the GRECO recommendations, Belgium ranks 35th in terms of implementation. For the previous evaluation cycle alone, Belgium would have implemented effectively only three out of nineteen recommendations, fifteen would have been implemented partially and one step at all. In particular, the report of 23 January shows that there is a general lack of financial resources for anti-corruption services. I asked you about this and my question remained unanswered. Therefore, Minister, I would like to know when and how GRECO's recommendations, made in the context of its January report, but also in general, will be implemented. If, despite the special powers, initiatives are or will be taken to strengthen the financial resources of the anti-corruption services, in particular the Central Office for the Suppression of Corruption? If the impact of VOCID-19 on health systems in terms of corruption – for example, the increase in the production and sale of counterfeit medicines – is or will be analysed for the possible development of an anti-corruption plan? That's what happened in France. If, in the same way, irregularities in the financing of political parties, which are also pointed out by GRECO, are or will be taken into account for a possible anti-corruption plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u18	Mrs Rohonyi, in accordance with the GRECO report on the 5th cycle, an interim report is expected on the measures adopted by Belgium to implement the recommendations of the 5th evaluation cycle by 30 June 2021. Some of the preliminary work has already been done, but the implementation of all the recommendations requires the establishment of a full-fledged government. There is no dedicated budget for the Central Office for the Suppression of Corruption (OCCR). To date, the Office has been covered by the total budget of the Directorate-General of the Judicial Police. Ten years ago, it was equipped with an organic framework with 66 full-time equivalents that remained the same when the Federal Police Optimization Plan was put in place in 2014. In the past, the OCRC has indeed experienced staffing problems, as I told you on February 19. In the meantime, the number of full-time equivalents has been increased and, at present, the framework is fully completed. It is currently premature to analyse the consequences of VOCID-19 and possible links to the issue of corruption. With respect to the production and sale of false drugs, I refer you to the Minister of Public Health and the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products. The question of the financing of political parties falls within the competence of the Federal Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear that most major reforms require a full-fledged government. Of course, we will pay attention to it. Still, this is not the first time that Belgium has been pointed out. I think that was already the case when we had a full-fledged government. I understand that recommendations can only be made by Parliament. I would urge my colleagues to do what is necessary. It's obvious. But there are also recommendations for the functioning of our justice as such. I think at that level, you still have a role to play. The excuse that we do not have a full-function government is not valid for the Council of Europe. This is in any case an excuse that cannot be audible when the Council of Europe calls on us to redouble our efforts in such an important field of competence. It is essential to be able to meet its commitments. I understand, for example, that a commitment that had been made to complete the Agency's framework of 66 full-time equivalents has been fulfilled. It's a great thing. The evidence is that despite the absence of a full-fledged government, we can still meet certain commitments. This is all the more important as I wonder if the 66 full-time equivalents framework is sufficient. Indeed, this framework has remained the same for ten years, while at the same time the workload of the Office and the many challenges in the fight against corruption have only increased. We should at least have a reflection on the subject and ask ourselves whether the human and material resources available to us today in Belgium are sufficient, if only in theory. Thank you very much. As far as Parliament is concerned, you can count on our determination.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u20	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, the Minister of Justice has no access to the criminal record and I will therefore give you the information I have from the Sidis database. The judgment of the Brussels Correctional Court dates from 5 November 2018 and concerned 20 months of which eight months with delay for beatings and injuries. On 3 December 2019, the prison director decided that, according to the conversion letters, the person concerned was eligible for electronic supervision. At the time of the facts in Anderlecht he was in interruption for the purpose of electronic surveillance. The implementation and organisation of electronic surveillance, as well as the effective connection of the anklet, are the exclusive competence of the Communities, in particular the electronic surveillance centres. I believe that this was the case of the French-speaking Community. After it was clear that the person concerned was suspected of the new facts in Anderlecht during the interruption of the sentence, he was recalled to prison in order to serve his sentence. He has been imprisoned there since 5 June 2020 and is therefore no longer given the opportunity to face the punishment in question in electronic surveillance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u21	Thank you, Minister, for the additional information. I hear that the first conviction dates back to November 2018 and that in December 2019 he could begin his sentence through electronic surveillance. So there was a rather long period between the pronunciation and the beginning of the execution. Besides, he was still in suspension. It should be possible to do so much more quickly in the future. I know it is not easy, but it does offer the freedom to commit new crimes, which unfortunately was the case here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u22	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, the Attorney General of Brussels has provided me with the following information. 22 administrative arrests were made. Of these, 14 people were underage. Eight people were already known to the police. Not a single person has yet been placed under arrest. The investigation continues on the indications of their individual involvement in the facts. With regard to your question regarding the directives on prosecution policy and criminal policy on the issue of violence against the police, I would like to refer to my reply in the Committee on Justice of 3 June 2020. As early as 2017, the circular COL10/017 was issued on my explicit question by the College of Attorneys General, specifically concerning the judicial handling of cases of violence against police forces. Finally, as regards the policy on violence against other aid services, the relevant directives can be found in the circular COL03/2008, which was revised in 2014 on acts of violence against persons held with a public office or mandate who observe a public service or public interest mission and who come into contact with the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u23	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Fourteen minors in the 22 people involved are disturbing figures. I hope that the people in question will be reminded of their responsibility, because if minors already show such disrespect towards police and firefighters, then we know that it will be difficult to keep them on the straight track in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-06-17-55-commissie-ic216x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament 55007238C by Mrs De Wit is postponed.
