ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, today we have a very high visit, both the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister for the Interior. Dear Prime Minister and Ministers, welcome to our committee. Today we have a debriefing on your visit to the Democratic Republic of Congo in early February. I suggest that I give you the floor first, and then let the members of the committee ask their questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, we were in Kinshasa and Lubumbashi from 5 to 7 February, and I myself, with my colleagues here, Minister Alexander De Croo and Minister Pieter De Crem. Until that mission was decided after a discussion with Félix Tshisekedi, with Mr De Croo also present, in the margins of the World Economic Forum in Davos on 22 January this year. It was ten years ago that a Belgian Prime Minister had made the trip to Kinshasa. The previous one was Yves Leterme in his capacity as Prime Minister at the time in current cases, tens donc on the occasion of the celebration of the 50th anniversary of Congo's independence in 2010. Since then, a lot of water has flowed to the sea. The DRC-Belgium relations were under great pressure from 2016 to 2018 in the context of the presidential elections postponed for two years by former President Kabila. Since January 24, 2019, the DRC has a new president, Félix Tshisekedi. We are very aware of the circumstances in which the new President came to power and of the way in which that process has been conducted. However, I would remind you that this is the first peaceful transition between two Presidents in Congo. This transition was accepted by a majority of the population and then by the international community, starting with the African countries and the United States, and went without bloodshed. President Tshisekedi knows our country well. He has established strong emotional ties linked to his long stay in Belgium. In fact, our country has booked its first official visit to Europe. It's not annoyance. From the beginning of his term of office, he demonstrated his willingness to strengthen the distended ties with Belgium and to put an end to the retaliatory measures taken against our country for its critical attitude towards President Kabila. Thus, the Schengen House managed by the Belgian Embassy in Kinshasa and closed by President Kabila was able to reopen its doors under the new name of the European Visa Centre. Brussels Airlines has recovered all its frequencies. The Belgian Development Agency Enabel was able to fully deploy and operate. The Consulate General in Lubumbashi was reopened after two years of closure. This official reopening was the highlight of my trip to Lubumbashi. During my brief stay in Kinshasa, I had discussions with many Congolese actors, first and foremost with the authorities, with my Congolese counterpart in the government and, of course, with President Tshisekedi, with whom I had already met in Paris and Davos. During these talks, my colleagues and I urged our interlocutors to implement the reform announced soon. The improvement of governance, the fight against corruption and impunity, the improvement of the business environment, the reform of the security and justice sectors and the reforms of the electoral bodies, namely the CENI and the Constitutional Court, are all still vacant, despite the progress already made in respect of human rights. I am thinking here of allowing demonstrations, the release of political prisoners and the return of political exiles. The challenges are immense and providing answers will take time. The decision to make changes in the judiciary, to dismiss a number of judges, and to hold generals to account are all steps in the right direction. I also note that the day after our meeting, President Tshisekedi changed the summit of the Congolese judiciary, giving fresh impetus to open judicial investigations or to the opening of new corruption cases. There is also an increase in the number of investigations into abuse of authority. The American pressure is probably for something. Congo is a country with enormous economic potential, but potential foreign investors are deterred by certain Congolese legal provisions requiring them to have a Congolese majority partner of 51%. This is the case in the agricultural and subcontracting sectors. My colleagues and I have called for a reform of the legal provisions to remove this obstacle. Since our mission, the Congolese Government has launched a dialogue between the relevant ministries, agencies and the private sector in order to clarify the definition and application of the new law on subcontracting. In addition, the Presidential Unit for the Improvement of the Business Environment met the group of 19 ambassadors of the European Union to explain its path towards simplifying Congolese fiscal and administrative obligations. I haven't only been in touch with the authorities. I have also, of course, met the opposition politicians who shared their analysis of the situation with me openly. We were also able to meet with the Special Representative and Head of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). During the meeting, Ms. Leila Zerrougui provided an overview of the various operations of the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO) and stressed the need for geographical refocusing of these operations, taking into account the evolving security situation in the various areas of the country. The issue of strengthening cooperation between MONUSCO and the Congolese army was also addressed, as was the need to strengthen the protection dimension of the population. We also met before the official talks with representatives of various Belgian NGOs active in the health, child protection, environment, family farming, access to justice and human rights sectors. All of us have sent the same urgent message: the needs of the Congolese people are immense and the promises of change made by the new President are slow to materialize, despite the goodwill that he seems to show. We have, of course, relayed this message to the authorities. With regard to development cooperation, our bilateral cooperation in the areas of vocational training, rural development, settlement and health care is highly appreciated. I had the opportunity to see this, together with my colleagues, during our visit to Lubumbashi. Belgian cooperation has developed a project to connect to electricity in a popular neighbourhood. Thanks to this project, 20,000 people finally benefit from the basic right to electricity. This project also has an educational dimension because it also trains electricians and electricians – since there were young women – in charge of the maintenance of the network. Training and maintenance are key aspects, too often neglected and nevertheless indispensable for the development of the Congo. My colleagues and I have also visited the National Institute for Biomedical Research in Kinshasa, which specialises in research into the sleeping sickness that causes tens of thousands of victims in Congo. This institute works together with the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp, a remarkable collaboration that enables, among other things, the training of young PhD students. Our policy towards Congo has never changed. It focuses primarily on the well-being of the Congolese people. It is not by turning our backs on Congo that we will achieve that. The needs of this country are immense, as I have been able to see during my visit on the ground. I am thinking in particular of the Saint Joseph Hospital in Limete, which is considered one of the good medical centres in Kinshasa. The poor and disastrous conditions in which doctors exercise their profession are terrible and the human misery is overwhelming. The RDC would very much like the negotiation process on a new indicative cooperation process to start soon. The current transitional programme will expire in 2021. It is up to the next Belgian government to begin this exercise. Belgium has expertise in other areas as well, which can be useful and beneficial for the Democratic Republic of the Congo. In addition to development cooperation, partnerships can be established or renewed in the areas of military and police training, such as judicial sector reform, customs training. For example, Belgium hosts young Congolese trainees trained in the Congolese ENA in its federal ministries every year. The latter are expected to become the senior Congolese officials of tomorrow. Last September, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was concluded between the Belgian and Congolese finance ministries providing for customs training and technical assistance in tax matters. In the field of military cooperation unilaterally suspended in 2017 by President Kabila, the dialogue was renewed in 2019 by the then Minister of Defence, Didier Reynders, during a meeting with President Tshisekedi on the sidelines of an international meeting in Washington. Joint staff talks took place in Kinshasa from 27 November to 1 December 2019 and resulted in an effective and progressive resumption of this cooperation through the training of two seamen on board the Godetia in Boma and a joint exercise for three Congolese platoons at Camp Ceta in Kinshasa. The parties agreed to reconvene in Brussels in May 2020. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the people, my conclusion from this mission, which was rather short to discover such a complex country with a rich diversity, is that the ties that unite our two countries remain strong, despite the problems of the past. The Congolese want, whatever their political beliefs, to strengthen these links at all levels, in the knowledge that Belgium and Congo are two sovereign countries that must maintain an equal relationship. Let us look to the future together and try to learn lessons from the past, which we certainly must not forget. Much remains to be done. The possibilities are enormous, the obstacles numerous, let us not deceive ourselves. So let us try to make the best of it for the Congolese people.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u3	Madam President, the Prime Minister has mentioned a lot of things. I will try to complete with some elements. I will do that from the point of view of development cooperation. The rather problematic run-up to the elections and their conduct led to a mise à flat of cooperation in the field of development cooperation in February 2018, resulting in a reorientation of development cooperation, especially towards humanitarian needs in the DRC. As the Prime Minister has pointed out, our first priority remains to examine how we can improve the living conditions of the population. If the political class in it can be a help or a vector, then we are very happy to cooperate with that political class. If that is not the case, then we are trying to find other partners to keep the result. Nevertheless, the DRC still remained by far the largest beneficiary of Belgian development cooperation, with amounts exceeding EUR 100 million each year. Belgium is active in a number of fields, including three main ones: technical education, the health sector and agriculture. This year, we have increased humanitarian aid by 50 per cent to EUR 25 million. Of course, a great deal of attention has been paid to the Ebola crisis in the DRC, which can be said today to have been contained. President Tshisekedi, the Prime Minister, chose Belgium for his first visit to Europe. In my view, the symbolic value of this is not to be underestimated. We see a President here who does not want to avoid the close ties with our country and sees them as a trump card. This is absolutely a new situation in relation to the past. In the meantime, when he visited Belgium, we had signed a memorandum of understanding concerning a transition programme in the field of development cooperation. Cooperation on neglected tropical diseases, including sleeping sickness, was also continued with a visit on the spot to a very important project. There is also the importance of civil society. We had also signed an MOU in the area of finance, for enhanced cooperation between customs and the administration of finance. In a more global context, negotiations are under way between the DRC, IMF and the World Bank. Considerable amounts are being discussed. Within the framework of the World Bank, we are talking about five billion over a five-year period, but with very strict conditions. These conditions are very important: transparency vis-à-vis mining contracts and vis-à-vis state-owned enterprises. In all our messages concerning all multilateral bodies, we have clearly stressed that these conditions are, from the Belgian point of view, relevant conditions. We have asked these two bodies to continue to insist on these conditions. Meanwhile, the IMF had already granted the rapid credit facility for around EUR 370 million, as the DRC had an acute shortage of foreign exchange reserves, which could have put the country in a severe financial emergency. There were visits on the scene. I believe that the Prime Minister has explained the course of these visits. From our point of view, I would like to draw some conclusions from those visits. Firstly, on a political level, we see that the President of the DRC, as I have just mentioned, has a very different relationship with foreign countries than the previous President. The President works well with neighbouring countries; he also considers them important and sees an important lever in the position of the DRC abroad to enable change to take place in the country. For us, it is very logical, I believe, that Belgium supports the current President's commitment as much as possible. On the other hand, it could be said that Congolese political reality would be described in France as cohabitation, in the sense that there is a presidency and a government. Cohabitation is not a problem in itself. Some will see similarities with our coalitions that work very well in Belgium, but it is clear that, for the time being, this cooperation between the Presidency and the government is still to be clarified on certain aspects. Indeed, we must not forget that it is quite new for this country which has a fairly young democracy. The next element is topical. The discussions on issues relating to democracy will be very important for the future of the country. I am talking about the reform of the electoral law and the composition of the Constitutional Court and of the CENI, the committee that organises the elections. These three elements are very important for the way in which a very early democracy such as that of the DRC can develop. That is the political aspect. In relation to cooperation, an important element of this mission was an agreement with respect to a transition programme called EDULINK, of vocational training amounting to EUR 10 million. It was a project that had been blocked many times. For now, there is an agreement to be able to execute it. I think the Prime Minister spoke about the importance of working together at the financial level. I've said it many times. If we manage to better organise taxation, the impact of financial resources in certain sectors could be several times greater than what we could do with bilateral aid. Thirdly, at the level of cooperation, we can see very clearly that cooperation is emerging from the classical pattern. Today we work with partnerships that are not classic partnerships. The fight against sleeping sickness, for example, is conducted together with the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, which makes one-for-one funding, along with our country. The port of Antwerp is in a different kind of cooperation. Enabel manages to obtain funds, for example at European level, which we can then develop from the Belgian agency. The Prime Minister spoke of military cooperation that is no longer taking place there but that is taking place in other countries, such as the formations in Mali or Niger. As far as the way forward is concerned, we are in a situation of current affairs, so a new cooperation agreement is not within the competence of the current government. I believe that we can anticipate the preparations for them, but a decision can only be taken by a government with full powers. It seems logical to me that a future cooperation agreement should continue some of the things that we are doing today, but above all it should continue along the lines of other forms of cooperation. Financial cooperation is one of which could have a huge impact on the country. Cooperation in the private sector can also be very important. We know that a very extensive trade mission is planned. My colleague, Mr De Crem, will also talk about cooperation with regard to the security departments. This is a first introduction. I am at your disposal to answer your questions as best I can.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u4	I shall then give the floor to Minister De Crem to discuss security aspects and foreign trade.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister, I will also provide you with a brief account of our three-day visit to the DRC in early February. The Belgian delegation was welcomed in Congo by the Congolese Minister for the Interior, Gilbert Kankonde. In our talks on the powers of Home Affairs and Security, Minister Kankonde referred to the bilateral contacts that took place in Brussels in September 2019 following President Tshisekedi's visit. During these contacts, mutual intentions were expressed in order to re-launch police cooperation between our two countries. I understand that a very important question from the Congolese side was to establish a form of cooperation with a view to exchanging information which could be useful in combating the current unrest and rebellion in the Democratic Republic of Congo. An additional issue related to the police is the support for the establishment of a police academy and the reorganization of the police. The main target is a community police, a police service for the population and not just for the Presidency and the Government. There is also a need to combat anti-values, in cooperation with the judiciary. In the course of these discussions, two points were raised around which such cooperation can be established. They already exist today in the Belgian-Congolese military cooperation that I shaped at the time as Minister of Defence. In concrete terms, it was the identification of military personnel and the payment chain, which must be as pure as possible. Within the broader framework of Home Affairs, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a Belgian government should in future consider the suggestion of cooperation between Belgium and the Democratic Republic of Congo on the National Register. This could offer the DRC advantages in terms of, among other things, the delivery of identity cards, the collection of taxes and the drawing up of electoral lists. For my part, on behalf of the Belgian Government, I raised the question concerning the lack of accreditation of a Belgian police liaison officer. On the other hand, the Congolese side mentioned a number of topics relating mainly to judicial cooperation, including the training of judicial police and the establishment of a criminal record. With regard to my foreign trade competence, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Belgian delegation stressed the importance of good governance and the fight against corruption. The closure of bank accounts by Belgian banks is an element on which we should be able to consider in the short term, not least because of the impact this has on both the personal and professional movement space of our countrymen in Congo. An evaluation and, where appropriate, an adaptation of the existing legislation on investment is also worth a thorough reflection. There are also positive points. For example, Joos from Turnhout has been commissioned by the Congolese government to print government documents. This should also contribute to better good governance in Congo. To this end, a ten-year agreement was signed. In conclusion, I can tell you that the mission's objective was to reinvigorate bilateral relations in support of the reform process initiated by President Tshisekedi. With regard to the impact on foreign trade and trade, the Congolese authorities face many challenges, primarily corruption at all levels. The fact that this visit was the first at this level in ten years cannot be underestimated. The visit of a Belgian Prime Minister to Lubumbashi is even a first in thirty years. Its symbolic value is therefore very relevant. I am convinced that the visit at the beginning of February must be seen as a new starting point in the bilateral relations between our two countries and that our Belgian delegation has therefore made every effort to express our respect and empathy for the Congolese people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u6	Thank you, Madam Prime Minister and Ministers. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Colleagues, we have an hour to ask questions and get answers. After all, these are busy times, including for the government in current cases. We will try to deal effectively with the debate. I would give the floor to Mrs Safai.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u7	Madam President, I would like to point out that I have tabled a question myself. I believe that, in the Rules of Procedure of this House, it is intended that those who have asked a question should intervene in the first place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u8	Since this is an exchange of views, an order is possible according to the size of the group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u9	Madam President, I have asked at a meeting like this and the Defence Committee that we be able to hear from the Prime Minister, the ministers who participated in the operation, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs who did not participate (the defence and foreign affairs aspects will be seen in another committee). Following this request, the meeting was held here. I will, but no!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u10	If you insist. In any event, according to the Rules of Procedure, the order of the speakers in an exchange of views is based on the size of the group. If Mrs Safai allows it, you will first have the floor, Mr Flahaut, then Mr Cogolati and then Mrs Safai.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u11	No problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u12	Madam Chair, there are two of us who have tabled a question. One day it will also be necessary to address the issue process and the operation of this House that has been in operation for a number of years. I'm discovering a lot of things. But leaving five years and then coming back is problematic because we see some things.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u13	It's not very Vivaldi, that!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u14	It's like the Department of Defense and Congo's problem!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u15	Mr Flahaut, I suggest you ask your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u16	Prime Minister, Ministers, I thank you for accepting this invitation and for providing us with complete information about this very short visit, because in two days you have finally accomplished many things. And again, you were in Kinshasa and Lubumbashi. There is everything else, which is also important. I would just like to point out that between 1999 and 2007, a great deal of ministerial visits were organized with the Congo. So we were not absent. There was a blank, no pun, between 2007 and today. It is good that we resume contact. I know, Mr. De Croo, that you and your father are very active. And that's very good. However, it will be recalled that Mrs von der Leyen and the President of the European Council visited Addis Ababa to attend the meeting of the African Union. This is a good signal of the priority that Europe and Belgium intend to give back to Africa – and Central Africa in particular. This is new and we must encourage such initiatives. You can count on us to contribute fully to this new direction. As I have just said, a request will be made to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence. Indeed, if your visit to the Congo follows that of President Tshisekedi last autumn, he had developed an essential aspect, namely the partnership and its revival in terms of Defence, because there was still a problem in this area. I do not know, Minister De Croo, whether we are facing a cohabitation or a coalition. This question is debated, since the Minister of Defence is very close to former President Kabila, while President Tshisekedi intends to exercise his prerogatives as Head of State in this matter, which is crucial. Here too, I believe that certain partnerships will have to be redefined. Work is being done between the staffs, it is said, but it is now necessary to give the impetus for a realization. I'll explain to you my current fear. We were the first to receive President Tshisekedi on the European continent. He worked intelligently by going first to visit his neighbours, in all modesty, playing on the African continent, and then going to meet the great powers. Today, however, he does not return so much to Belgium officially, but goes a lot to the United States. I have the impression that the Congo is, today, a new attraction in the eyes of the United States in redefining the influences on the African continent. We should not be the privileged and historic partner – in a few months, we will celebrate the 60th anniversary of decolonization – but neither should we arrive at the last in the resumption of a whole series of contacts all the more so since (you mentioned it all three) there is real trust between our two peoples and the various leaders in a perspective not of paternalism or neocolonialism, but in that of win-win or partnerships based on mutual respect and dialogue. Indeed, there is, and you are contributing to, an urgent need to restore the climate of confidence in all areas. Mr. Minister for Development Cooperation, you have a lot of work to do and your policy has developed, in recent years, the digital dimension through many projects and highlighted the problem of women. I believe that the redeployment of the Congo and its new development will also emerge through the full association of women leaders who play a major role in Congolese society. In the same way, there are also all these subjects that need to be addressed as a matter of priority. This is what President Tshisekedi was talking about when he visited us: agricultural matters (by developing in Liège and Gembloux) and health matters. Health mutualities are ready to support President Tshisekedi's programme to implement universal health coverage in the Congo. This is a huge challenge to meet. It began with the provision of free health care for the military and their families. Foreign trade and development cooperation also require a lot of work, as there are also a multitude of actors and missions. Research may be underway in this area, but this is another debate on the future in our country, namely a kind of coordination to avoid walking on our feet and duplicating or playing the competitors, which is counterproductive. As Minister De Crem said, a mobilization to bring civil registration lists to certain localities would no doubt make it possible to organize elections in good conditions and to avoid a multitude of frauds and corruption. The city of Liège is paired with Lubumbashi and has implemented a good civil registration policy. Brussels is linked, I believe, to Kinshasa and is also working in this direction. Antwerp takes care of the port and is very dynamic, just like Liège, regarding port policies. Was there any discussion, at some point, of the role of Parliament? Between the Congolese National Assembly and the Senate were signed cooperation agreements a few years ago, which are still valid. It is about helping good governance, the functioning of democracy. I understand that the President of the Congolese National Assembly has sent an invitation to the President of our Assembly to have an exchange on parliamentary aspects. I do not know if you have touched on this subject, but I believe that this parliamentary dimension must always be added. Where ministers sometimes argue, whether internally or externally, parliamentarians are still able to discuss. When do they intend to appoint an ambassador to Belgium? We have made the necessary efforts to reopen the Schengen House, to appoint an ambassador, a consul in Lubumbashi, to make all this work. Mrs. Brahy has been here for years. However, they did not send ambassadors. He must not be a reception or cocktail diplomat, but he must know our sensibilities without being a member of the diaspora, he must be able to grasp our specificities, to value the results of your visit and to continue the realization of what was decided or discussed when President Tshisekedi came here last autumn. I'm afraid we're wasting time and we're too late, when the rest of us have already settled in. We will have laid foundations and the others will build – perhaps in a sloppy manner – on these foundations and the Congolese people will be victims. Madam President, I thank colleagues for their flexibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u17	Prime Minister, Ministers, I thank you first of all for your presence, but also for your transparency. I think this was a very important mission. I don't think we've talked enough about this here in Parliament. So I'm glad that we can take stock with you. It has been ten years since we had a Belgian Prime Minister in the DRC. It is important to remind him. I do not have the experience of my colleague André Flahaut, but from my point of view there are four points which have really struck me in your report. First, the Congolese people continue to fall into the greatest poverty and development indicators are still extremely worrying. Second, Mr. De Crem recalled this in terms that we cannot be clearer: corruption really gangrene all layers of society. It is true that a number of reports indicate that some generals have thus hijacked balances for the military. These are things we cannot accept. Thirdly, the eastern part of the country is still in the midst of the greatest security instability. In fact, there have never been so many deaths in less than a year in this part of the country. Finally, I believe that Mr Flahaut has not spoken of this promise of local elections which has not yet been held and which seems to me to be constantly handed over to the Greek calends. Let me turn to my six questions, which are addressed specifically to you, Madam Prime Minister. I would like to know more about the state of pacification in this region, the eastern part of the Congo. How did Belgium position itself in relation to the rapes and mass massacres that took place there, in particular in Ituri but also in North Kivu? I know that Belgium occupies an important place since we are currently sitting on the Security Council. MONUSCO's mandate is getting loose, it must be admitted. At the same time, it was suggested that MONUSCO could play a more influential role in eastern DRC. Here too, it must be seen to what extent an agreement could not be envisaged with the armed forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, particularly in the eastern part of the country. We're talking about military cooperation. What about the training of Congolese soldiers? Is this envisaged? Could Belgium once again provide this training for Congolese soldiers? Could we even envisage a new Artemis bis operation in cooperation with the European Union and our European allies? The fourth question concerns these local elections. Have you been able to discuss this with the Congolese government officials and representatives? Has any guarantee been given as to the organisation of these local elections? The fifth question is corruption, which you mentioned. I think it's important. What is the status of investigations into embezzlement of public funds? How do we intend today to prevent further embezzlement of the salaries of judges, officials, police officers and soldiers? Re-establishing the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen, is above all paying the dues to the officials. Finally, I would like to address the ores of blood, which are a root cause of destabilization. In any case, it is very clear to the east of the Congo. They generate an absolutely monstrous climate of violence. In particular, does Belgium support sanctions in the Security Council against individuals and entities, often foreign, involved in the illegal exploitation of natural resources and linked to armed groups and criminal networks, that must be combated at all costs in order to save civilians? That's the priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u18	Mrs de Laveleye had also tabled a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u19	Madam President, I have a few questions to ask the Minister for Development Cooperation. Mr Minister, you said that the Congo was Belgium's privileged partner and we have a very comprehensive approach since we are working in both direct bilateral cooperation with Enabel, in multilateral cooperation with several civil society actors, with the private sector and other actors such as the port of Antwerp or the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp. How do you manage to find consistency in the approaches of these actors, which are fundamentally different? On the other hand, the multilateral, even if it can support some countries structurally and massively, can pose problems, in particular in terms of corruption or support for corruption. What beacons have you put in place with local actors to ensure that these new World Bank funding will not be diverted immediately, to the detriment of the needs of the population? What is the place of the private sector in a fragile state? We support the fragile state approach that is yours, but we continue to have doubts about the desirability of supporting certain types of private sector. Have you been able to discuss this on the spot? Is the approach to agriculture, which is one of the priorities for Belgium, well linked to the effective fight against hunger? What beacons have been put in place to avoid land grabbing and intensive agriculture that do not meet the needs of the people? What is the status of the specific strategy on equality between men and women? We know this is a big issue for this country. Have you been able to discuss this with civil society on the spot or with other actors?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u20	Madam President, Madam Prime Minister, a three-day blitz visit took you to the Congolese capital Kinshasa and to the mining town of Lubumbashi for the reopening of the consulate. There were nothing but happy faces and roaring statements about shared history and a renewed collaboration. The diplomatic conflict is over. The price we had to pay for this was simply accepted that Martin Fayulu, the real winner of the election, was put aside as part of the devil's pact, which allowed Kabila and his entourage to retain their grip on the land. I have every understanding. No one expected in December 2018 that effective elections would take place or that a non-violent transfer of power was an option. The past year has indeed been marked by less repression and violence, but above all by many promises and announcements. During the first hundred days of his presidency, the president promised major achievements, such as free education for all Congolese children, 3.385 km of new roads, a rigorous approach to corruption and the long-awaited stability in Eastern Congo. A working year and some 200 % overbudget later, the project of free education has already been largely put away. Only one tenth of the promised number of roads has been rebuilt and the major infrastructure projects in Kinshasa are unfinished. With Kabila sympathizers at all levels of the system, the fight against corruption is almost untapped and murder groups such as ADF and CODECO in Eastern Congo continue quietly, sometimes even with the support of the army. However, with former colleague Luykx, we here in Parliament called for austere restraint. Mr Tshisekedi had everything to prove and offered a real chance of change. Everything was better than the years of glamorousness under Kabila, which had transformed the land into a powder keg. However, that was not a free pass to sweep everything under the mat. Unfortunately, we have to note that the policy of the 'right backbone' and of restraint, which we conducted with the Swedish coalition towards the country and its leaders, is completely out of the way. I quote: 'A new era in the common history of our countries', according to the Congolese Prime Minister, 'A first stage of a long rediscovered cooperation', was recorded. You also said that Belgium is prepared to assist the Congolese in their ambitious plans. Military, police, economic, development and judicial cooperation offered you in Kinshasa. You said that your government is on-going, limited, but "it doesn't bother us to prepare the ground for the next government." Madam Prime Minister, these are words of concern to us: Belgian tax experts to help in the fair collection of taxes, legal specialists to stir up the fight against corruption, an offer for police cooperation on our part and a kick-start to revive the military cooperative. At the end of March an economic mission is planned and for the festivities around the 60th anniversary of independence several prominent people, including King Filip, already have an invitation in their pocket. I would therefore like to ask you the following questions, Madam Prime Minister. Military cooperation with the DRC is putting pressure on our over-answered Defense and its pilot into the Sahel. Was what you offered, talked to the defence staff or somewhat provided for in the operational framework? A collaboration on intelligence in East Congo was offered. How do we work with individuals who are still endorsed by European and American sanctions for what they did under Kabila? Do we have sufficient conditions for our support?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u21	Is anyone from the Flemish Interest Group asking to speak? [[No.]] I shall now give the floor to Mr De Maegd.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u22	Madam President, Ministers, Prime Minister, I welcome, on behalf of my formation, the gradual normalization of Belgian-Congolese relations in political, economic and military terms. This mission, ten years after the previous one of a Belgian Prime Minister, on Congolese soil is more than a symbol of this important normalization for our country both economically and diplomatically. I will not add too many questions, since many things have already been said. Madam Prime Minister, you mentioned your various meetings with President Tshisekedi in the Congo but also in Paris and Davos. Finally, you mention this intention to improve the fight against corruption, respect for human rights and freedom of expression in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Are these mere declarations of intent or have they been able to detail to you their vision for the concrete implementation of this increased fight against poverty, better governance, the fight against corruption or the pacification of the country? Indeed, another question arises. How can we, the Belgian State, help the Democratic Republic of the Congo in this process of pacification, which is known to be an extremely slow process? Mr De Croo, I am not going back to the questions concerning Enabel that have already been asked. Of course, I expect your answers in this regard. Mr De Crem, I would like to address the commercial part of our relations. What is the reality of the trade relations between Belgium and the Democratic Republic of the Congo? Will next month's economic mission take place? Finally, I would like to ask the three representatives of the government whether they have any information on the appointment of the Congolese consul in Antwerp? As far as I am aware, we do not yet have a precise idea of the time taken to take up office.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u23	Madam President, I will briefly ask three questions and not return to the previous considerations. The first question relates to the issue of corruption. Minister De Crem has rightly said the same sentence in French twice to emphasize his words somewhat. A few excellencies have referred to it. Is it concrete about allocating expertise and Belgian officials to strengthen the institutions? We have done the same for the budget at the beginning of this century. We are now talking about identity cards, tax collection and tax officials. How detailed is that? Are we going to send people there and have them helping to develop the institutions in Congo? The second question is also along the lines of Enabel. We are currently in a period of ongoing business. However, the Congo is not unimportant to Enabel. How will the continuity of projects be ensured? The projects from Belgium via Enabel certainly have their merits. Some are even a success. However, it is not so easy to ensure continuity in the projects. How do the Excellencies see that? The third question has not yet been raised. Has Belgium raised the problem of Congo as an important green lung in the world? If not, wouldn't we do better at next meetings? Much is rightly being said about Brazil, but in fact the issues in Congo are equally important.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u24	Madam Chair, I too would like to thank the members of the government for this report. As you said, Madam Prime Minister, we are lucid about the circumstances in which the elections took place a little over a year ago in the Congo. You implied that we all knew who had been the winner of this election. I think the Congolese too are very lucid. If they finally accepted that it was Mr Tshisekedi, it was because if he had not had legitimacy in the ballot box, on the one hand, they hoped to avoid a bloodbath – and indeed, everyone feared a civil war, which did not take place – and, on the other hand, they thought, and they wanted, like us, that this legitimacy be acquired through a reform programme and through the support of the Congolese population. It's kind of the bet we all make. You have therefore done well to make this trip to the Congo. In addition, it is true that he is the most bellgophile president since Congo's independence. A Belgian diplomat told me a few months ago. It is a president who wishes to strengthen his ties with Belgium. This has not always been the case. Besides, we also have interests. We forget this, and perhaps we are wrong to forget it: the Congo is one of the last subjects on which we are expected, whether in New York or elsewhere, and where our opinion, and possibly our analysis, still counts. In my view, it is important that we are not absent from this country for these elements. It is also the diplomatic surface of our country. We are right to try to strengthen ties, to strengthen them as you have done, and to try to make this country feel better. As has often been said, it is a geological scandal, it is a potentially very rich country, and yet it is one of the most wretched populations in the world and has been subjected to extreme violence for many years. You have outlined what our relations could be in the future, the efforts we are making, while at the same time being lucid about the difficulties and the context in which we are going to operate. It is appropriate that we find the right methodology for the future; that we should not be here in two three years' time to tell us that there has been a new test, that this has failed again, and again, each of us goes bitterly on his side, saying that it will not be repeated again. It would be important, in particular, to see what the indicators are, what the scoreboard we are putting in place in our relations with the Congo. You have mentioned a whole series of aspects and aspects: justice, CENI, taxation, corruption, violence, human rights. These aspects would allow us to see where we are, and perhaps also to intensify our cooperation on the basis of the results achieved in these different sectors. I would be quite happy to argue for a fairly open scoreboard with partners who agree on the indicators that will be monitored and on amounts of cooperation or technical assistance. Cooperation is not only budgetary, it can also be technical, particularly in the area of taxation. The idea is to increase the levels of cooperation according to the results achieved in the various areas in which we hope. It therefore seems important to me to find a methodology in which each of the partners is satisfied with the organization and which also avoids paternalism in the relationship. A certain form of paternalism must be stopped. Even if we are concerned about the situation in the Congo, the future of this country belongs above all to the Congolese and depends on how their leaders behave and change the internal situation. How do you envisage the evolution of this relationship even in a government in day-to-day business and even if we cannot fully deploy? It will be very important to check how we can intensify this cooperation with the best possible results. The second element I would like to ask you about is the issues of violence, war and MONUSCO. We have always outsourced the question of appeasement and the establishment of this peace force to countries which are mostly not European, third countries. Belgium and the European Union have funded MONUSCO, but we have always refused to point the finger at it. I think it's a mistake. Of course, we have done so for historical reasons, particularly in the light of the events of 1994. I believe it is time today, since we are restarting military cooperation, to ensure that we have a closer look at what is happening with MONUSCO and that we can make it a much more effective tool for protecting people. This is an issue that I had the opportunity to discuss with Minister Reynders at the time. Indeed, it is a scandal to see that at the same time we have the largest and most costly peacekeeping operation and that at the same time this operation is largely ineffective in preserving the civilian population. If we want to be an important player in the Congo, it is really important that we have a radically changing strategy on this issue and that we are a driving force for a European and Belgian presence there, in order to avoid future violence and the rejection of the Congolese population towards MONUSCO, which is very present but inefficient. It can also be understood that the Congolese population is wondering what it is for. These are the questions I focus on. I'll be happy to hear your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u25	We must not be paternalistic with regard to the DRC. We caused a very serious diplomatic crisis when Kabila did not issue the constitutional elections. I therefore welcome the fact, Madam Prime Minister, that you have made one of your first transcontinental visits to Congo, together with the ministers De Croo and De Crem, to emphasise our friendships and to restart diplomatic relations. I met Mr. Tshisekedi a few times before he became president and once as president. His discourse remains the same. He wants to work on the fight against impunity and corruption. He mainly wants to invest in education. He has, of course, long been the victim of this impunity and corruption and of the absence of elections. The CENI did not work and the Constitutional Court worked with Kabilage weddings. Some of my questions go in that direction. As far as the European approach is concerned, I believe that we were an important broker or leverage. It is important that we have re-established relations first. We have also developed a European sanction list. To what extent is it still active? Is that still being looked at? Speaking of impunity, I heard you say that we must not forget the past, but also look to the future, Madam Prime Minister. I can fully follow you on this, but then we must remain consistent with those who have made mistakes in the past and who have entered the European penalty list. As far as the tax regime is concerned, I believe that we should not only work with development money in developing countries, but also with the private sector. However, taxation also means having a pure regime. It is therefore a question of whether taxation is the first thing we should be working on. Should we not first work on an anti-corruption policy? I heard you say, Mr De Croo, that we have to work on the customs regime and the tax regime, but how does that fit in with the anti-corruption policy? As far as education is concerned, it is quite clear that Tshisekedi is doing a very concrete job, but there are problems. Teachers are no longer paid because the students no longer contribute. Did we talk about that back there? How can we help the children, now that they can go to school massively, to receive education and to pay the teachers? Was there any mention of that during your shipment? MONUSCO was referred to several times. We are now in the Security Council. We can give it a better orientation. What happens in East Congo is aberrant. The sexual violence on women is terrible. It's become an epidemic there. It's become a weapon of war. I believe that we want to combat sexual violence and emphasise women's rights, but if we are serious about it, we must consider MONUSCO's reorientation in this area, for the protection of the population and women there. Perhaps we can make our mark on that now that we are on the Security Council. Finally. It has not been mentioned, but it is being discussed throughout Africa. I welcome the fact that von der Leyen has developed an EU-Africa strategy. It's wonderful that she did and that her first trip to Africa went to Addis Ababa. That is a very good signal, and it has understood very well where the challenges lie in various areas. However, there is also another partner, China. In what way did you sense that during your visit to Congo?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u26	Prime Minister, I have one last question for you. As you recalled, you visited the Democratic Republic of the Congo as part of a mission to strengthen ties between our two countries. Therefore, as a member of the Defence Committee, I think it appropriate to question you today on this issue which is important to me and which is the recognition of Congolese veterans, just as I will do next week with Minister Philippe Goffin in the Defence Committee. History tells us that the soldiers of what was then the Belgian Congo played a considerable role during the first but also the second world war. During the conflict, it was not less than 25,000 men who were mobilized, on the one hand within the colonial army's law enforcement force, but also within the Belgian army to lead the fight alongside our soldiers. Today, these forgotten heroes deserve, must, come out of the shadow and silence. It is essential that history and Belgium recognize these men to the height of their commitment. What more symbolic to strengthen the ties between our two countries than to recognize a part of our common history? That is why, Madam Prime Minister, I will ask you the following questions. What consideration could you bring to these veterans today? Would you be prepared to grant them the official status of veterans and the recognition that they deserve? Finally, could you give us your position on a possible moral and material reward for these soldiers who have so far been forgotten by the Belgian authorities, on the understanding that I do not regard as recognition the volatile money which was to finance the pensions of these veterans under the Mobutu era? Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u27	Thank you all for your questions. Many comments have already been made and views expressed. That is a very good thing, because it is about an important visit. Everyone has noticed that it took place at a specific time. I mentioned that in the press then l'alignement des étoiles. What do I mean by that? I had the opportunity to meet President Tshisekedi, a first time alone and a second time with Minister De Croo. I had never met him personally before, but like my colleagues I quickly got the impression that Belgium is considered not only by him, but also by the Congolese as a special country. When we compare our size, our financial capacity with those of the United States or the Chinese – who are also present in the Congo – we wonder, apart from history, what Belgium can bring to the Congolese people. I think that's where we're wrong. It is precisely because we have a particular history, because we have a particular understanding of each other, because we have a particular mutual attachment. This can sometimes be a smile when you see the world in which you live, but it is an objective reality and a reality that you feel when you talk to the leaders of the government, the personalities who represent the power in place, the opposition as well and the Congolese people. Belgium does not have to be ashamed of its size or of its relations with the Congo. In my opinion, it must not "want to be bigger than beef," as the fable says. Thanks to its added value, to what it has brought, it can, in my opinion, make a difference. Maybe not all the difference, but in any case its difference. And I think it matters. We have had many meetings with both the government and the Prime Minister or members of the government. We had the opportunity to talk to the president in a larger group and then I had the opportunity to talk to him face-to-face. This always facilitates free trade. We didn't oust any of the subjects. We also discussed difficult issues. When we go there, it's not just to congratulate ourselves and to say how great we are in our two countries. This is of course the case, but behind it, points have been raised in terms of governance, political law, promises made to the Congolese people during the electoral campaign, in terms of the judicial system, the management of the army. We also talked about the business climate. These points were addressed without any false appearance, with an identical message. That message was that promises had been made to the Congolese people, that they were convinced that they were serious, but that it was now high time to make it work and move on to the action. Belgium is prepared to act as a partner, without any paternalism and at the same level. Of course, this can only be done if we want to do so, because a partnership requires two partners. So there must be a question from Congo and we are prepared to cooperate in a positive story. Our actions are, of course, aimed at the Congolese people, which is ultimately very important. Of course, a country with so many challenges cannot be changed in two days. President Tshisekedi has been in power for a year now and it is time to make progress. In my speech I mentioned some developments that we could see there. I am not saying that they came from Belgium because of the intervention, but they are there. There have been changes in the judiciary. For example, judges who had been accused of corruption had been dismissed, while the top of the Congolese judiciary had been changed. Similarly, generals must begin to be held accountable. In addition, new impetus is being given to judicial investigations, as evidenced by the increased number of cases opened for corruption. There is also an increase in the number of investigations into abuse of authority. It can be said that this is insufficient and that the Congolese landscape has not changed enough. However, I believe that things are gradually being built and that we must be able to report when they are going well, or better, or – at least – when they are in the right direction. That's the case here. A question was asked about the role of Parliament. It is true that we have not dealt specifically with this subject, but I am aware that a request for the resumption of parliamentary cooperation has just been transmitted to our embassy by Mrs Jeannine Mabunda, the President of the Congolese Chamber. It's under study. When you want to work between partner countries, this is an essential step. As regards the appointment of an ambassador in Brussels and a consul general in Antwerp and the reopening of the consulate, this is one of the special aspects that I call quick win, that is, points of attention that can be more easily settled. They are in fact subject to more than one decision. We do not treat the appointment of an ambassador in the same way as the resolution of a conflict in the eastern Congo – we agree. So that's one of the things we want to see happen. I am also thinking, although we have not mentioned this, of the signing of a MoU for the Belgian schools located there. It is not only in the interests of the teachers who work there, but also in the interests of the many Congolese who go there. This also contributes to the improvement of the situation on the spot. If you don't trace a legal framework, you leave people in uncertainty. That is not to say that they are deserting their posts, but you will understand that we are waiting for several initiatives to materialize. There was and is cooperation possible. A number of collaborations have been discontinued, but they can be renewed or strengthened. We are in ongoing business, which means that new initiatives cannot be taken. We know that, but does this mean that we had to miss an opportunity to send an important message to the Congolese? We didn't think so. We saw the meetings with Mr Tshisekedi as an opportunity to go on the spot. I wasn't there to do tourism. We had meetings from morning to evening and from evening to morning. It was very intensive and also extremely intellectually instructive, but also humane, because we met many people, both political figures and personalities on the ground who are engaged in civil society. In addition, nothing like going to the field. We visited a hospital in Limete. We were shown pictures and explained the situation. When you go there, you really get a slap. Sometimes it's important to put things back in their place. It wasn't the purpose of the trip, but I take this moment to share this personal experience. It is also one of the things that brings you and engages you in the future. There are indeed a number of possibilities for cooperation, in various areas: military, economic, financial or judicial. All these forms of cooperation would help to improve the situation of Congo. There are difficulties in terms of corruption and how to collect taxes. Digitals always seem to be irrelevant when talking about poverty in Congo, except that, when the collection of certain taxes is digitized, by decency, it is guaranteed that the money will be collected directly without going through unnecessary administrative harassment. There is a whole series of cooperation that can be put in place. I wish I could give you a roadmap. I would like to be able to say in a structural way that we will take stock of the situation before and after the visit. Except that before and after the visit, there is one essential thing that must happen: the formation of a government. We still need to hold discussions because it is not a paternalistic relationship but a relationship between partners. When you have partners, you don't impose on them what you think is right for them. That's not how things should be done. We work with them and together, in a win-win relationship, decisions are made for what we can rise together in. All this work has yet to be done. When I said that this visit was the milestones of this partnership, it was because it was important to do so at that time because there was an opportunity for timing. It was before the economic visit organized in March. The current global situation may make things a little more complicated. It is an economic visit, ma'am, which is organised by the Regions and not by the federal government. As a result, we are not bereaved to allow the Regions to organize economic visits to the Congo while the federal government is in day-to-day business. I want to take a lot of responsibility, but not this one. We laid the first milestones, the first stones. It will be up to a full-fledged government to structure all this. There have been more specific questions that I do not forget about the situation in Ituri: rape and wars. It is clear that we are part of a partnership to which we could provide expertise to help the Congolese people to resolve this problem. It is a sovereign country that certainly needs help. There is a deep will to organize things, but we must not be naive either. These conflicts are rooted in places that are not easily accessible both physically and at the communication level. There are "seigneuries" there, and the financial stakes are predominant. To believe that Belgium will come to give guidance in addition to its help so that everything is resolved or that it is enough for President Tshisekedi to slam his fingers and call for his will to solve the problem so that everything is resolved is to show a little naivety. We are clearly convinced that the will to move forward is real, that steps have been taken in this direction and that we need MONUSCO. We spoke with its members. We explained to them how often there was a feeling among local people that MONUSCO was not really there for them and that there was a distancing that could exist between MONUSCO and others. We told them that MONUSCO could also be too scattered on the ground and that it might need to be refocused not only at the geographical level but also on what it could do. We also talked about working with the Congolese army to achieve real results. We have discussed the issue of precious metals. There is a whole series of rules which are established and which we would like to see respected, of course, by all the players on the spot and certainly by Belgian companies. It is a matter of honour, but again, the situation is very complex. It's not just about these actors. It is the cause and chaos is the result of the terrible difficulties and violence on the spot. It is a set of elements that must be settled. I will certainly not pretend to solve everything after two and a half days of visit, in routine business and without having redeveloped, on either side of the table, a roadmap in the sense of what can be done. I'd like to come with all-round solutions, but reality doesn't call for this kind of behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u28	Madam President, the Prime Minister's general response has covered many aspects. Mr Flahaut, you have asked oral questions which, I think, were intended to be included in this debate. In my introduction, I have already explained a little how our cooperation programmes are organised. There is now an opportunity to extend this transition programme, which was EUR 30 million and to double its budget and to increase to EUR 60 million if projects can be defined. These are not additional amounts, in the sense that sometimes they are money from projects whose implementation has requested less resources than expected or some projects that have been frozen. All of this is being done pending a new transition program, but there may be none. It will be up to the next government to decide. Madame de Laveleye, we are actually active on several dimensions. For the sake of consistency, there is a context analysis program. At first, NGOs were not very enthusiastic, but it has been proven that simply sitting several players around the table in a certain country and sharing their programmes often leads to a lot of complementarity. This is the instrument we use to find as many complementarities as possible between the actors we work with. As far as the private sector is concerned, I am often asked whether, in a fragile context, such as in the DRC, private development can be achieved. Isn't that the other way? One of the reasons for this fragility, is it not due to the fact that the private sector is very little developed? There is, in fact, no counterweight. However, I think that a political power always needs a counterweight. In some countries, it is the Church, and in others, it is the middle class or the private sector that, from time to time, can say that one goes too far, that one does not respect the normal balances in one country. I therefore believe that developing a private sector can help to break the fragile situation in which many countries find themselves. For private development, we use various instruments, including the Humanitarian Impact Bond, with private investments. We are doing this in Mali, Nigeria and the DRC and we see that it is possible. It is often said that if we do private development in this kind of context, it will be Cherry Picking but that is not my experience. I hope that new cooperation projects will incorporate an important component of creations for the private sector because it is the best way to get people out of a precarious situation in a sustainable way, but also because I believe that the development of a private sector has a significant political impact. With regard to gender equality and sexual violence, we have had a consultation with civil society and we have often talked about it in our political contacts. Mrs. Safai, you list things that we would supposedly do in current cases. As the Prime Minister has pointed out, the trade mission is organised by the Regions. As far as I know, they're not on-going unless you're here to tell me something new. If the Regions are organising a trade mission, how should we stick a stick in the wheels in current cases? I do not understand why this would be a problematic element. You say that there was a certain attitude among the Swedish Government and now another one. This is not the case at all. I can't imagine how the attitude would be different now. The situation has changed. During the Swedish government, you were dealing with a president who didn't respect the constitution, but today you're in a different situation. Is everything rose-scented and moonshine today? No, absolutely not. I think that Mr Dallemagne has indicated this very well. I think that the Congolese people are very accurate and know very well what political developments have taken place. If a local population and the surrounding countries make it very clear that it is time to turn the page, what kind of paternalist attitude do you expect us to adopt to say from Belgium that we disagree with that? We have been the country that has been the longest and most critical of how the elections have been conducted. You may also have noticed that we are the only ones who have not congratulated the President. We wanted the president to be successful. It is difficult to congratulate someone for something that has a great deal of doubt as to how things went. You have talked about a number of issues. You know, current affairs may be convenient for some in this country, but the rest of the world is not in current business. It may be a pity for some, but the rest of the world is progressing. Things are happening in our country too. Current cases should not paralyze us unnecessarily. There has indeed been talk with many people in Congo, not just with the government, about what things can be worked together in the future. A government with full powers will judge it, just as it would be in the case of military cooperation. You're saying this would put unnecessary pressure on the DOD. Really? What do we have the DOD for? What's the defense for? DOD is here to play our role internationally, isn't it? Do you know what the Department of Defense is putting unnecessary pressure on today? The fact that so many years after the date we still have hundreds of soldiers on the streets. Why do we have them in the streets today? Because some mayors fail to do with their local corps, sometimes the largest in the country, what one can expect from a local corps, namely to ensure security in their city. Certain mayors still demand that dozens of highly trained soldiers waste their time with static surveillance orders. That's what the DOD's putting under pressure today. I really do not see how military cooperation in certain places in the world would fall outside the core tasks of defence. Mr De Maegd, concerning the central coordinating role played by Enabel, in the change of the law, this agency has turned to an organization which makes coordination and seeks the best partners, instead of being confined to the role of executor it played in the past. Enabel has a lot of expertise, she was able to continue her activities in the Congo despite the artistic blur that prevailed at some point. I think everyone understood that it would have been useless to stop Enabel's activities. It is natural that, in our largest partner country, Enabel is moving towards this new role. Mr Crombez, you asked questions about taxation and how it will translate into practice. There have been initial talks on this subject. Should it be on the basis of local officials, should it be on the basis of exchange programmes that can also take place here? That level of detail has not yet been reached. If that is done, it will be a government with full authority that will eventually do so. It is an area on which we have worked a lot in the past. In Burundi we have had a long cooperation with l'Office Burundi des Recettes on domestic resource mobilisation. You are making a point about the role of the rainforest. That is indeed an important element. This has been discussed in a number of political contacts. The use of charcoal - makala - has a huge impact on deforestation. This deforestation leads to an accelerated impact of climate change, an impact that one not only feels in the DRC, but which one could potentially feel in the rest of the world. Mr Dallemagne, you have touched on many elements, to which I have already answered in part. As you say, "Is there a certain dashboard"? You know better than I do than there is no ideal development path. A typical trajectory cannot be indicated. Each country is quite different. You say that Belgium is one of the only countries on which opinion is respected. That is correct, but it is up to us, too, to use this knowledge as a lever with other organizations. For example, in discussions with the IMF and the World Bank, when we say that the conditions imposed are the right ones and that they must be articulated in such a way, the impact extends far beyond our possibilities. With regard to the World Bank, we are talking about funding of five billion. Now we can talk. When Belgium puts pressure on a budget of a hundred million, it is important, but we still have a little less support. I think that is the role we must play: to make good use of the knowledge we have on other grounds. We know very well that Belgium still has everything to gain from using the multilateral aspect. This allows us to box beyond our weight category. Mrs Van Hoof, the EU sanctions list remains and has been extended. There is also an American sanction list and a UN sanctions list. What is good is that the people on those lists are not part of the government. That does not mean that these people would no longer have any influence, but the fact that they are no longer in the government is an important element.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u29	Madam President, I agree with the answers given by the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister. I agree with the answers and suggestions that have been made by my two colleagues. I will confine myself to the part about which questions have been asked, which have not yet been answered. It concerns the part of external trade and trade relations with Congo. Let us be clear: the Democratic Republic of the Congo is the second largest country in Africa, with population growth – which represents the biggest challenge – and substantial and sustained economic growth of 6-7 per cent over the last five years, under the conditions we are obviously experiencing. This country has enormous potential, as its president, administration and government have pointed out. As far as external trade is concerned, I shall mention investment, which naturally goes hand in hand with development cooperation policy. They fall within the areas of communications and port infrastructure and connections between the different cities. Other investments will be made in the agri-food sector, but also in the development of the state organization – whether it is from the defence or the civil registry. In terms of administrative relations between cities, municipalities and central government, other opportunities have arisen. Moreover, the trade balance remains – and I weigh my words – deplorable. For historical reasons, there is a great deal of genuine interest on the part of Belgian companies. However, this requires a general climate that is financially and politically stable. It's not an understatement. I think the climate is rather politically stable, but it is not financially stable. Indeed, tax policy does not encourage trust. From time to time, as has been mentioned, investments are made in subcontracting markets, but under very difficult conditions. Ad hoc taxation measures are also sometimes taken and do not give investors much confidence. That being said, I mentioned an investment that was made and signed a few days ago. There are also other companies which have been present for quite a few years and which are also reliable investments, but which work under very difficult conditions. As far as exchanges are concerned, I think it was Mr. Crombez who had talked about it, we are really thinking about it, since the current government is in the business of day-to-day business... This government in current cases cannot, of course, approve new initiatives. That will be in the next perspective. The next government, regardless of which parties are in it, will not go over again, with regard to supporting the civil part, to sending out staff in large numbers. There will be exchange opportunities and know-how can be exchanged. We want to be particularly supportive in this area. We base our efforts on the experience we have had in the defence sector. For example, we have managed to organise a chain of payments and organise biometric data in an authority department. Unfortunately, we have seen that the result achieved has not been maintained. A question was also asked regarding the economic mission. I was referring to the economic mission announced by the various regional agencies. I had no indication that this mission would not take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u30	Thank you, Your Excellencies. Colleagues have the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u31	Prime Minister, we will have to go back, because there is still a lot to be done. Then, Madam President, Parliament will have to go too. I did not say that we would go together, but we will have to ensure concrete follow-up so as not to lose the achievements of this visit, with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence. Prime Minister, you're using terminology that I like enough, because you've talked about partnerships and you've insisted on sovereignty and respect. I believe that this is how we will succeed in re-establishing trust and going very far into the projects that we could implement. What is the place we can occupy despite the modesty of our territory and our means? Indeed, we can play trilaterality alongside massive and sometimes cumbersome partners such as China and the United States: by our small size around a table we can be a reassuring element for both partners. The major potential partners are also sensitive to the presence of those who are probably most familiar with the situation in the Congo. In international forums, whether in Europe or elsewhere, when we talk about Central Africa, we look to Belgium for our opinion. As far as MONUSCO is concerned, it is worth having this debate with the Minister of Defence. Although we did not put troops into operation on Congolese territory, we did training and, indirectly, we formed a Beninese battalion that entered MONUC (the former name of MONUSCO) to be closer to this Congolese population, understand the language and finally have civil-military cooperation. This is generally not the case for MONUC or MONUSCO battalions, as they come from other continents and do not even speak the language of the region in which they are deployed. Secondly, Mr Cogolati said, there was Operation Artemis with France, at some point in Ituri, which actually made us derogate from the rules of post-Rwanda and allowed us to carry out interesting work. As far as fighters are concerned, it is wrong to say that we have done nothing. We did things for them, we even honored some on July 21 at a national holiday. We've done a lot for the widows of the fighters. It is true that we have not recovered the sums that were taken by a previous dictator, Mobutu, not to mention it. Perhaps there will be an important symbol on the sixtieth anniversary. Here too, care must be taken not to make psychological mistakes at home and in the Congo. For example, I learned that during President Tshisekedi's visit, some thought of visiting the museum in Tervuren, which was a psychological mistake. Finally, he was able to lay a wreath, like any head of state, in front of the column of the Unknown Soldier and recall here that Congolese helped us during the wars. For the Congolese community in the Congo, it was also important to show that the efforts made were not forgotten. In the preparation of the sixty years, be careful not to make psychological mistakes because they are very sensitive. Finally, Belgian schools are indeed very important in the development of partnerships, but this is an area reserved for the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u32	Prime Minister and Ministers, thank you for your answers and clarifications. The DRC is not condemned to remain in poverty, in corruption, in the absence of the rule of law, and we have an important role to play as a partner. I am pleased to hear you talk about loyal and sincere partnership and win-win collaboration. I have, however, heard less about the enormous potential of the MONUSCO mission. His mandate is now detrigued while his role could really be revitalized, especially in the eastern part of the country. I also heard Mr. Flahaut speak about Operation Artemis in collaboration with the French, with a clear mandate from the United Nations Security Council. This is a path to be explored because today's priority is to stop the massacres and violence, especially against women, which take place in the East. That must stop. The priority for the Belgians today must be to save lives. My second question has not been raised deeply enough: the guarantee of forthcoming local elections. I sincerely believe that we cannot speak of the rule of law without local democracy, without local leaders democratically elected by the population.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u33	Madam Prime Minister, I thank you for the time you have given us today to answer our questions and, above all, to inform us of where we are in collaboration with this country, which is important to us both historically and strategically. I also thank you for your answers. I am somewhat dissatisfied with the enormous challenges of development cooperation with the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the years to come. I mentioned the coherence between the different actors. Mr De Croo, you have highlighted common contextual analyses that concern only civil society actors. I wanted to know what the links were between Enabel, BIO, civil society, but also the multilateral, which spaces can be used to move forward together. Sometimes one realizes that the visions are very different either complementary or in opposition. We need to see how we can move forward in a coherent way in relation to that. You have also highlighted the private sector that is well known to your favorite sector. You refer to an important counterweight of the private sector in a context of fragility. I have no doubt that the private sector is one. It is also the role of civil society, which we have addressed relatively little today: the role of Congolese NGOs supported by Belgian NGOs and other countries. The private sector can be a lever, but also places of non-respect for basic human rights, even in connection with development cooperation. There are still issues that we have not addressed today, which is normal. We have all the time in Parliament. There is land grabbing, agrobusiness, the role of the World Bank in corruption, the role of some of our private projects such as Feronia, and the difficulty of making development through these kinds of tools. As you know, major projects are still to be carried out and I would be interested to see how, with this new collaboration with the DRC, we can work in depth on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u34	Madam Chair, I am somewhat dissatisfied because I did not get a clear answer to my questions. I would, however, like to associate myself with some of Mr Flahaut's comments. Indeed, if certain things have been accomplished, I think they are quite inadequate. And to say that we do a lot of it is, in my opinion, an understatement. And to deliver a speech on July 21 and to lay a wreath of flowers at the François Riga Square in 2016 seems to me quite inadequate for 25,000 people who, at the risk of their lives, fought alongside our soldiers during two world conflicts. On the other hand, I fully agree with Mr Flahaut on the possibility of highlighting these people on the 60th anniversary of Congo's independence. I hope that the government in day-to-day affairs or a potential full-fledged government will make arrangements, during this commemoration, to highlight people who, in my view, are not and are still forgotten, although they deserve much more recognition than they have been given so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-11-55-commissie-ic134x.u35	Thank you, colleagues. All I have to do is thank the excellence for this interesting exchange of views and wish everyone a good evening.
