ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u1	I can confirm that on 24 June the Council of the European Union accepted a proposal from the European Commission for a budget adjustment for 2020 to address specific deficits in the framework of the existing Facility for Refugees in Turkey. This mechanism, which aims to support the reception of almost four million Syrian refugees in Turkey by now, runs until the end of 2020 and shows shortages in two programmes, the Emergency Social Safety Net, which supports the family's needs and education on a daily basis. EUR 485 million was approved in commitment appropriations and EUR 68 million in payment appropriations. These are changes at the level of the European budget. The Belgian national contribution to the Facility for Refugees in Turkey has remained unchanged. No other commitment has been made so far, not even for the period after 2020, nor in other dossiers such as visa liberalisation. The roadmap for visa liberalisation requires, first and foremost, initiatives by Turkey to meet all the conditions before it could be re-examined at European level. Nor is there any prospect of further steps on the modernisation of the customs union today. Our country believes that the political conditions for this have not been met. Following the mandate of HR/VP Josep Borrell to enter into consultation with the Turkish Minister for Foreign Affairs, three working groups were set up: migration, humanitarian needs and the functioning of the Facility for Refugees in Turkey, which so far did not take a decision. The discussion in the framework of the COVID-19 pandemic has been a delaying factor. At the forthcoming Foreign Affairs Council in July, Mr Borrell will undoubtedly provide more information on this matter. Indeed, the European Commission decided to increase its support for refugees, in a joint response to the ongoing crisis in Syria and in the framework of the Brussels IV Conference on Supporting the Future of Syria and the Region of 30 June. EUR 100 million is provided for projects in Jordan and Lebanon, which provide assistance in the areas of access to education, support for living and the provision of health and sanitation, waste treatment and social protection. This planning was also included in the budget adjustment mentioned above and was already accepted by the Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u2	Mr Minister, whether we are talking about the permanent occupation of Cyprus, the repeated political mobilisation of the Turkish diaspora in Europe, illegal gas drilling in European territorial waters, the lack of cooperation in the fight against illegal immigration or the recent storming of European borders, Turkey has not missed an opportunity and has not missed a chance to show that it is not a partner, but, on the contrary, an ever-increasing problem. Since the conclusion of the famous Turkey deal in 2016, Erdogan repeatedly threatened to terminate the agreement, without a clear European response. This was not the case in the last two years when illegal immigration from Turkey towards the Greek islands increased significantly. Europe must make it clear that it will not give in to the permanent Turkish blackmail policy. It is good to hear that Belgium is still waiting for the visa requirement. I hope that will continue to be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u3	Mr Minister, Turkey lifted the immunity of three parliamentarians who were subsequently convicted. Other provisions prohibit dissident MPs from changing parties during the legislature. This information is disturbing. In addition, in recent days, we have learned of the arrest of Amnesty International activists. They were tried for belonging to a terrorist organization! Even if it can be understood that the judiciary has been put under pressure in recent years, Europe must have sufficient capacity to respond to the guarantee and protection of human rights and the rule of law around the world. That's the point of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u4	Mrs Jadin, I am aware of the arrest of the three members of the opposition. The procedure followed for the revocation of the parliamentary status of two members of the pro-Kurdish party (HDP) and one member of the Social Democratic Party (CHP) and their subsequent arrest are grounds for questioning. In general, the deterioration of human rights and the rule of law in Turkey is a major concern for Belgium and the trend observed in recent months with, for example, the dismissal of 45 mayors elected in 2019 in south-eastern Turkey, the three arrests you mention or the trials against civil society activists, such as Osman Kavala, is hardly positive. These questions are followed very closely by our posts in Ankara and Istanbul and by our services in Brussels. Regular contacts are held with Turkish civil society. My predecessor has never failed to convey our concerns about the application of human rights to the Turkish authorities and I intend to follow the same policy. At the multilateral level, Belgium is also very active. For example, during the Human Rights Council session in March and June 2019, we discussed the situation in Turkey and, in particular, violations of freedom of expression and of the media, activities related to the physical integrity of human rights defenders, journalists and political opponents. Belgium participated in Turkey's last universal periodic review (UPR) in January 2020 with three recommendations (our country can only make three) expressing our concern about the deterioration of human rights and freedoms with regard to the previous UPR, in particular with regard to the independence of the judiciary, the use of anti-terrorist law and early and forced marriages. The Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe regularly discusses the situation in Turkey, in particular with regard to progress or lack of progress, of the various initiatives taken within the framework of the Council of Europe. Statements either on behalf of the European delegation or on behalf of the 27 Member States of the European Union are regularly delivered on the situation of journalists, human rights or on the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. A joint statement was made at the Committee of Ministers on 26 February 2020 concerning the new arrest of Mr Kavala. Moreover, through the Venice Commission, the Council of Europe recently published its opinion on the replacement of elected candidates and mayors. Our position on compliance with the European Convention on Human Rights is clear: by ratifying the Convention, Member States undertake to be bound by the provisions contained therein, including the obligation to implement the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u5	Mr Minister, I thank you for having developed all the actions that are being carried out, either in concert with the Member States of the European Union, on the part of the European Union, on the part of our country, or on a multilateral basis with other countries, to try to influence what could now be very, very easily called a certain and continuous drift from a once democratic state to an autocratic state, where the balance of powers and individual and human rights seem to be seriously endangered. It must be noted, Mr Minister, that despite our commendable actions and diplomatic efforts, things are getting worse for a country that is still part of the North Atlantic Alliance and, in that context, has adhered to a charter of common values. This should not leave us indifferent, but, on the contrary, lead us to continue, both multilaterally and bilaterally, to take action, which will allow us, at some point, to influence more firmly what is happening in Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u6	Madam President, Minister, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) has recently indicated in its report on the issue of Iranian nuclear power that the Islamic Republic of Iran has enriched itself with uranium to the tune of 1,571.6 kilograms, eight times more than the standard set in the 2015 International Compact, which the United States unilaterally decided to withdraw in 2019. Moreover, for months, Iran had banned IAEA inspectors from accessing two nuclear sites, which was very deplorable. It cannot therefore be ruled out that the country has even more uranium than is estimated. Fortunately, relations between Iran and the United States appear to have improved somewhat, as a result of the reciprocal release of prisoners. Minister, I would like to hear from you about the follow-up to the Iranian nuclear pact? Can it still remain by knowing Iran's attitude towards the IAEA? What will be the consequences of the IAEA report on future relations with Iran? Do you have any information on the new approach between the United States and Iran following the recent release of prisoners?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u7	Madam President, Mrs Jadin, Belgium strongly supports the preservation of the common global action plan, which is one of the successes of the multilateral approach and diplomacy. The survival of the action plan depends on its full implementation by all parties. In this regard, two negative developments are to be regretted. First of all, I will mention the withdrawal of the United States from the action plan and the re-imposition of unilateral sanctions. These actions have had a negative effect on the balance between the restrictions and the benefits that form the basis of the plan. Moreover, the new nuclear exemption prevents Iran and other States from implementing their commitments under resolution 2231, which endorses the action plan. Secondly, we are extremely concerned about Iran's non-compliance with a number of its commitments. We reject a less-for-less approach which can only lead to a situation of escalation with unpredictable consequences. Recently, Iran has denied access to IAEA inspectors at certain sites. As a result, Iran has not complied with an obligation that derives not directly from the plan of action but from its obligations to IAEA under the safeguards system imposed on all States by the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). That violation could not remain unanswered and the IAEA Council of Governments had approved a resolution calling on Iran to settle itself. Belgium, currently a member of the Council, voted in favour of this resolution. We will continue to call on Iran to fulfil all its obligations, both those arising from the plan of action and those arising from the NPT. Iran must take the necessary steps to regain the confidence of the international community. The reciprocal release of prisoners by the United States and Iran is a positive step. However, there is no relaxation of the US policy of maximum pressure against Iran. On the contrary, positions are still hardening.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u8	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u9	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, let me make it clear that this is a recommendation of four independent experts of the United Nations Human Rights Council to delay the decision on the dumping of water contaminated by Japan. This request does not come from the United Nations in itself. Indeed, our country is in favour of international standards on discharges of radioactivity at sea, as defined, for the North Atlantic region, in the OSPAR Convention. The possibility of introducing such standards into other regional maritime conventions or in a global context is an issue that we wish to pursue in consultation with the competent authorities in Belgium. As far as the safety of food and other products imported from Japan is concerned, my predecessor has already explained to you that Belgium has put in place specific health controls targeting these imports, pursuant to EU Implementing Regulation 2016/6 imposing special conditions on the import of food and feed originating in or coming from Japan, following the accident at the Fukushima nuclear power plant, as amended by Commission Implementing Regulation 2017/2058 of 10 November 2017. The AFSCA is responsible for the application of these European regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u10	Minister, to understand clearly, you will clearly oppose the release of radioactive water into the Pacific at Fukushima.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u11	You get it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u13	Mr Cogolati, I share your concern about the human rights situation in Sri Lanka. In the eleven years since the end of the war, progress has proved too timid for the families of the victims. Belgium attaches great importance to the implementation of the consensus resolution of the UN Human Rights Council to which you refer. In that resolution, Sri Lanka committed itself, inter alia, to establishing a Truth, Justice, Reconciliation and Non-Repetition Commission, as well as a Missing Persons' Office and another to be responsible for reparations. The resolution provides each mechanism with the freedom to obtain financial, material and technical assistance from international partners, including OHCHR. During bilateral meetings, but also at the European and United Nations level, Belgium regularly addresses with Sri Lanka the issues of transitional justice and the fight against impunity. This was particularly the case during the universal periodic review of Sri Lanka at the end of 2017. Our country enquired about the progress made in establishing a Truth and Reconciliation Commission and also recommended the adoption of a framework of judicial and non-judicial measures to ensure transitional justice, including a national mechanism for truth, justice and reconciliation, as well as a reparation office. Belgium is also active during the sessions of the Human Rights Council on this subject, in its national capacity and within the framework of the European Union's interventions. Thus, on the occasion of the March 2019 session, our country once again called on Sri Lanka to work on a comprehensive strategy for transitional justice and to establish a clearly defined timetable for that purpose. On 19 May, I heard with concern the threat of the new Sri Lankan President to withdraw his country from any international organization exerting pressure on its military. This threat was directed at the Human Rights Council and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. I can therefore assure you that Belgium will continue to follow this situation closely, both from Brussels and from our Embassy in New Delhi and our Permanent Representation in Geneva.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u14	Minister, thank you for your particularly proactive position on this issue. I confess that this question was inspired by several Tamil victims, who had asked me about it a few weeks ago. I am therefore very pleased to hear that Belgium is making a point of advancing transitional justice in its bilateral relations with Sri Lanka. Of course, I will not fail to convey your answer to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u15	Minister, I have asked this question on several occasions. Since it seems we still have no news of this family, I'm worried about its fate.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u16	Mr Cogolati, it is appropriate to recall that since the beginning of this case, we have favoured the processing of this family reunification file through bilateral channels in order to prevent any political instrumentalisation by outside actors, which would have complicated the settlement of the case. Since 29 May 2019, discreet and regular contacts have been ongoing between the Belgian and Chinese authorities in both Beijing and Brussels, with a view to resolving the situation of Ms.Abula and her four children. The case was discussed in many meetings between the Chinese Embassy and several of my departments. The steps have been taken in this regard by our Ambassador in Beijing. In addition, this case was raised at a high level on the margins of the Princely Economic Mission of November 2019. On 16 December 2019, this issue was again discussed at a high-level meeting in Brussels. Chinese interlocutors at all levels have consistently pointed out that, in accordance with the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, foreign States, including Belgium, are not competent to intervene in favour of Chinese citizens residing in China. During the period from August to November 2019, our embassy in Beijing met twice by telephone with Mrs.Abula who was with her children in a village in Xinjiang and not in a rehabilitation or vocational training camp. The children were in school. Today I have no evidence to conclude that the family is being treated inhumanly. Given the inability of the embassy, in December 2019, to contact Ms.Abula in Urumqui, the authorities of Xinjiang province as well as the Minister of Foreign Affairs in Beijing were approached in January 2020. At the end of January 2020, the Chinese authorities informed the Embassy that Ms.Abula and her children were well and that as Chinese citizens, Belgium had no capacity to look after them. The same reply was made by the Chinese ambassador during his meeting with the chairman of the department's management committee on 20 January. My services do not have any evidence to prove that a possible breakdown of contact between Ms.Abula and her husband residing in Belgium is voluntary. The Chinese authorities were not duly informed that the family reunification procedure had been completed as early as June 2019 and that a visa could be issued as soon as the family members were in possession of a Chinese passport in accordance with the Chinese procedure in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u17	Mr Minister, you are making sure that Belgium has nothing to say about these citizens on Chinese soil. However, on 28 May 2019, Ms.Abula and her four children, from the Uighur minority, came to the Belgian Embassy. They were inside the Belgian embassy and therefore under the protection of the Vienna Conventions not only on consular relations but also on diplomatic immunity. Given the persecutions against this minority in the province of Xinjiang, this family could or should have been protected by Belgium on 28 May 2019. Since then, it has not been possible for this family to meet with the father who is now a refugee in Ghent. Minister, allow me to fear the worst for the future of this family, when I see the situation of the Uighurs, of this Muslim minority in Xinjiang province. I therefore wholeheartedly hope, Mr Minister, that we will do everything possible in our bilateral relations, in our diplomatic relations and also through the European Union to put pressure on China so that this family can finally be saved, put to safety in Belgium and find the father who is a political refugee in Ghent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u18	On 26 May, Minister, you said in this committee that there are 9 000 Belgians registered abroad on travellersonline.diplomacy.be. They are both tourists and Belgians who are resident abroad. Not everyone had or has the will to return. In many countries, the most important ones are Spain, Morocco, Australia, the United States and New Zealand. In the meantime, no more repatriation flights are scheduled by the FPS Foreign Affairs, but fortunately the commercial flights are getting going again. Our country will facilitate it further. In total, more than 10,000 Belgians have now been brought home, with both Belgian and European flights, from around 110 countries. That was a huge task for the Foreign Office. Now we have to learn from how repatriation has gone so that we can improve this if this is still needed in the future. In the field of communication something went wrong, I think, because it was sometimes chaotic and unclear. Not only the planning of flights was sometimes difficult, but also the modalities were not sufficiently communicated. I received stories from travellers who were not informed in advance that costs would be charged for their repatriation flight. Only at the airport, beyond all checkpoints, were they informed about the invoice of 400 euros per person. Then, of course, they were faced with facts and they could not be returned. How many Belgians have so far been brought back to Belgium via repatriation flights and how many on commercial flights? How many Belgians are still stuck abroad, who want to return to Belgium as soon as possible? In what way will our country cooperate to facilitate this through commercial flights? What was the cost of repatriation flights for our country? How much was the passengers charged? You're welcome to share that percentage. Is that 100 percent? 80 %? 50%? 25%? How and when was it communicated to passengers that the cost of the repatriation flight would be charged? Did the embassies have guidelines for that? How does that normally happen? How do you evaluate this communication? Did the embassies and the FPS Foreign Office get any complaints about this? If there have been complaints, has any compromise been reached, for example through compensation by dropping some of the costs? Is such a thing still conceivable?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u19	Mr Ben Accour is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u20	Part of my answer is in French. About 6,000 Belgians are still trapped abroad. Currently, due to the evolution of the pandemic, new registrations are registered on the traveellersonline site. We have seen this in the near past, for example when a number of citizens have appeared from several parts of the United States. For Cuba, the situation seems fortunately to be improving as several internal restrictions have already been lifted and an opening to international tourism has even been declared. Today, there are about 50 Belgians on site who are in contact with the embassy. The Commission keeps them informed of the possibility of repatriation flights to Europe. Some of them will take a Condor flight on 9 July and Air France repatriation flights are scheduled for 17 and 31 July. Permits to leave the territory for Belgo-Cubans and Cubans residing in Belgium are now easier to obtain. Mrs Lanjri, we are currently facilitating the commercial flights I mentioned earlier with TUI in Morocco. However, our posts in different countries are also working behind the scenes to establish a number of connections in African countries, at the request of the airline in question. A total of about 8,000 Belgians were repatriated from abroad. If family members were to be included, they would be more than 10,000 people. We do not keep separate figures for commercial flights, because I believe that this merely statistical exercise would go too far. In this case too, several thousands of countrymen have been involved since the beginning of the crisis. The share of the cost borne by the passenger who used a repatriation flight varies between 200 and 500 euros depending on the destination. For flights operated through the European mechanism, Member States are free to fix the price. Thus, the share to be paid by the citizen varies according to the nature of the theft. The total purchase price is not yet known, as the agreements between the Member States and the European Mechanism have not yet been fully completed. The total budget of the flights deposited by Belgium does not exceed EUR 5 million. An important part of this is also reimbursed by the European Commission. All our posts have clearly been instructed to communicate as transparently as possible about the possible purchase price of the flights. I also received very few complaints from citizens who had not been informed in advance about the purchase price. It therefore seems to me that the posts have always followed these instructions. Mrs Samyn, first of all I must point out that this pandemic continues to flare up in many areas and it is therefore difficult to answer your question specifically. To give you an idea, I can give you an overview of some of the areas you mentioned. In the Segrià region of Spain no Belgians are currently registered on travellersonline.diplomatie.be and there are 24 Belgians permanently resident there. In the city of Leicester in the United Kingdom, 272 Belgians are registered. Here too there are no tourists to my knowledge. In the Sintra region of Portugal there are currently some 50 compatriots, in the Galicia region of Spain about 240 compatriots. I cannot answer your second and third questions as they do not fall within my policy area. The travel advice is followed very closely by my services more than ever. In this particular crisis, there will be no hesitation in issuing a negative travel advice for areas where the virus is suddenly spreading again. Repatriation is a very exceptional measure which can only be implemented in very exceptional circumstances. Several parameters, such as transport possibilities, should be examined for this purpose. I therefore call on all our compatriots to be very well informed about the sanitary safety situation at their destination and on the way to and from this destination before taking a trip. In addition, as always, travel insurance must be checked to ensure that all risks are adequately covered. Here too, "prevention is better than cure."
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u21	Madam President, Minister, it is certainly a good thing that you have given instructions on how to communicate the cost to travellers. You say there are few complaints, but you do not say there are no complaints. I have also received a number of complaints by e-mail. I received one from people who were repatriated from Gambia and only at the airport, after having already passed several checkpoints, were told that they had to pay part of the cost of repatriation. It is important that communication is properly conducted everywhere. Perhaps an apology can be made to the people who have gone wrong and who have made a complaint. If possible, there should also be some compensation, because they were totally surprised when they had to sign a letter and otherwise they were not allowed to get on the plane. Minister, you have not yet answered what is normally the percentage of the price the traveller has to pay. You said that Belgium costs about EUR 5 million. However, I would also like to know what the percentage is. It is important that we make it clear to the citizens that our country actually pays part of the costs and that even if they have to pay EUR 200, 300 or 400, it is not about the total price but that the State pays a large part. Can you give me the percentage that, about, is paid by the traveler?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u22	The figure is 50%.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u23	Minister, you say that some questions do not relate to your powers, but I hope that there will be clear communication. There must not again be catastrophic mistakes and decisions or non-decisions such as after the crocus holiday. It would be logical for air passengers to be subjected to temperature screening and to a mandatory quarantine with testing for people returning from risk countries. This government must therefore urgently undertake mass testing and a legal framework that makes it possible for travellers from at-risk areas to be quarantined at home. So we can avoid a second wave of this horrible virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u24	Minister, would you now like to give the introduction to the travel advice?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u25	Madam President, there was a specific question from Mr Crombez. First of all, I would like to thank my services who have prepared as comprehensive a response as possible. Mr Crombez can ask his specific questions and then I will give a full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u26	Minister, I tabled this question at a time when there was complete chaos about the travel advice. The government showed that there had been a relaxation, but the experts and the opinion of the GEES, even the opinion of 3 June, said that serious additional measures had to be taken for international travel. The closure of airspace was largely "essential and necessary', according to the opinion. Now that the impact of the virus is greatly increased worldwide and the virus is more and more present, the government has no policy ready for travel. The GEES gave that advice over a month ago. Can you explain which countries have opened their borders to the Belgians, but for which Belgium maintains a negative travel advice? Is it true that in practice Belgians can travel to and from these countries for non-essential purposes, i.e. for holidays, despite the advice that they should not go? Does the Minister see the health risk, with a risk of new outbreaks of COOVID-19 and possibly even the origin of a second wave? In what way is the advice of home quarantine maintained? It is not clear to me at the moment. I am very interested in referring to powers. How is this advice, which is also given by the experts, maintained? If this is not maintained, what other measures are there to prevent the spread risk? It concerns five to six thousand people a day who enter Belgium via Zaventem alone. How can it be established whether or not a journey is made for essential purposes? How does the Minister assess the approach in ensuring that the travel advice is followed and the risks involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u27	Are there any colleagues who would like to follow that up?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u28	Madam President, Minister, I too have a question about the travel advice, especially as the virus flares up again. A first aspect is travel within Europe. Belgians returning from risk areas must have a corona test taken and then a second test, but that is not mandatory. The communication about this is chaos again. The big question is how we know whether people come from a risk area. Shall we close our borders and ask the people who arrive where they come from? For those who land on Zaventem, this can still be somewhat outdated, but those who travel by car can cross all of Europe, from one risk area to another, without us knowing anything about it. Is there a plan about that? Are we prepared to avoid a second wave? When people came back from the ski resorts after the crocus holiday, we could still say we didn't know, but I don't think we can do that anymore. A second aspect is travel outside Europe. Those who have travel plans in that sense, professional or tourist, are completely'saved'. The European Union has approved a list of 15 non-European countries to which European nationals can travel and people from these countries can also travel to our territories. The Belgian Government has decided not to follow that recommendation of Europe. The problem is that our neighbouring countries allow the Netherlands, Germany and France certain destinations. It is intended that residents from one of those 15 countries who come to Belgium via a foreign airport may be intercepted by border controls. However, what are we doing with Belgians who, for example, drive to the airport of Schiphol or Charles de Gaulle and fly from there to Thailand? I ask this question because I visited the airport yesterday. Mr Theo Francken was there last week. I can agree that the water is at the airport to the lips. The airport explicitly requires a level playing field within Europe for international travel. The second largest economic engine in our country may be even more problematic because our travel advice does not correspond to the advice of neighbouring countries. If anything is needed now, it is a very good economic engine that works. That's what our airport is so important for. So my question is: do you have contacts with neighbouring colleagues? What can we do to support our airport? Is there talk of a level playing field in Europe?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u29	Minister, I agree with the questions put by my colleagues. I would like to add one more element: as far as travelling within Europe is concerned, there is the Re-open EU website, where a traveler can see according to his destination whether he should be quarantined there for 14 days or not, but there is a lot of confusion for people who want to travel. Let me give you an example that I checked this morning: if you type Sweden, for example, there will be no problem if you come to Belgium from Sweden, while yesterday on the De Standaard website a map of Europe was published indicating certain countries in red, including Sweden and Luxembourg, because the level of contamination is very high or is rising, as in certain regions of Spain. Are we not going to ask people who come back from Sweden to Belgium by car via the airport? Are we not going to ask them to go into quarantine for two weeks? Who's gonna check to see if that's what they're doing? What advice can people take, because now it is totally unclear and depends on the source they consult? It is very important that this is clarified.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u30	Minister, I would like to return to my previous question. It is a bit bizarre that my questions 2 and 3 are not answered while the debate is on that. I do not understand why, and I hope you will answer my questions now, Minister, since it is about home quarantine and testing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u31	If no one else asks to speak, you will have the floor for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u32	Madam President, I thank all the colleagues who have asked questions. I thank again my services, which, in a very short period of time, have provided clear answers. Finally, I am pleased that these questions have been asked, allowing me to clearly identify each other's responsibilities and deliver a clear message. Listening to your questions, I think that obviously, and I fully understand it, it was important to take stock of the situation in order to clarify it, first for you, but obviously also for our fellow citizens. On 13 March 2020, the Ministerial Decision prohibiting non-essential travel came into force. Only essential movements have been allowed since then. Since 15 June 2020, Belgium has been allowing non-essential travel, i.e. tourist trips, to all countries in the European Union, in the Schengen area and to the United Kingdom. Citizens from these countries are also free to travel to Belgium. On 30 June 2020, a recommendation was adopted at European level to phase out travel restrictions for 15 countries outside the EU+. These include Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, Serbia, Thailand, Uruguay, Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, Georgia, Montenegro and Rwanda. Reciprocity was requested for China at European level. The exemption categories for essential movements were also extended. Since 1 July 2020 it is therefore possible for students, highly qualified workers, seafarers, European nationals and their family members and residents of a Schengen country and their family members to travel to Belgium, in addition to the existing categories. Belgium took the time to judge the European Union list until 7 July 2020. Yesterday, 6 July, Kern decided to follow CELEVAL's opinion on the list adopted by the European Union on the opening of borders outside the European Union ++ zone. CELEVAL advised not to allow the opening of borders for non-essential travel for the following countries: Serbia, Thailand, Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, Georgia, Montenegro and Rwanda. On the other hand, five countries received positive feedback from CELEVAL: Canada, New Zealand, Australia, Japan, South Korea. Uruguay was added at a later stage by the same CELEVAL. Since these countries do not yet allow the arrival of travellers from Belgium and Europe, Kern has decided to allow travel to these countries only once reciprocity has been achieved and implemented. This reciprocity is indicated so that the situation is as clear as possible. This means that, for the time being, non-essential travel is prohibited for Belgians outside the European Union++ area. In all transparency, I would like to inform you that the Netherlands opened its borders with 15 countries, but gave a negative travel advice. Germany keeps the borders closed with Morocco, Algeria, Serbia and Rwanda. For Japan, South Korea and China, Germany wants reciprocity, but it also retains a negative travel advice for the 15 countries. I would like to point out that access to the territory is a matter for internal affairs, via the Aliens Office. In the other direction, the border crossing to the outside of the country falls within the competence of the same Internal Affairs. Many of you are also asking me about health measures. Here too, it is important to recall, for the sake of clarity, that tests and quarantines are, as the Council of State indicated on 3 July, within the competence of the Regions. It is very essential and important to identify the responsibilities and competencies of everyone so that the message can pass as clearly as possible to our citizens. The travel advice on the Foreign Affairs website contains the most recent information about the possibility to travel to a particular destination. The traffic light developed for this purpose has already been taken over by several other bodies. In recent days, countries have been found to introduce additional restrictions on certain regions due to new hotspots. This is reflected in the travel advice as soon as possible, with risky areas being strongly advised. The situation in each country is changing from day to day. There could therefore be changes in the coming weeks, sometimes even in the next few hours. We must be clear: this development can take place in both directions. We have to remember that. You have cited cases where, indeed, it might be possible for a Belgian to fly to Paris or the Netherlands for a destination which, from Belgium, is prohibited, but which would not be allowed from abroad. We need to be clear and logical. It's a matter of civicism. If the Belgian authority invites its fellow citizens, through clear and precise decisions, not to travel to any particular State, it is very logical that our fellow citizens should not cross the border in order to try to circumvent a rule. It's just a matter of civicism. The entire Belgian population has made a great deal of effort during this crisis of the VOCID-19 and it would be really regrettable to take advantage of the opportunity given by another country to travel to countries that are not currently the subject of an agreement in Belgium. It would be unfortunate to go elsewhere and look for what we cannot do at home. I will give a small example that has marked the minds of each other, especially in the region of Liège. I am a Liegeese, but not only, and it is also done on the part of the province of Antwerp. Remember when our country was confined. Some thought it smart to go partying in the Netherlands, because the Netherlands didn't have the same health rules as us. It was indeed possible to go, but it was not civic at all. Here, exactly the same principle prevails. We will ensure that we have a clear and transparent rule of prudence. I repeat that one last time so that it is perfectly clear. The list of the 15 countries mentioned has been established at European level through a recommendation. Europe has invited each of the States to take a decision on this list. We have called on CELEVAL to give us an opinion on safe and non-safe countries. I repeat that some countries have been classified as safe, others have not. For the sake of clarity of the message, we wanted to apply, as Germany is doing in part, the principle of reciprocity. Other elements have been involved in your questions. I now gather my answers to make a summary of them. You asked me, and it's normal, about how we're going to manage returns, and how we're going to track people who have returned, either from "at-risk" areas or from areas that, during the period, have proven to be at risk. The Council of State made a very clear statement. There's an OCC tomorrow. My and the government's wish is for the Regions to be able to adopt a common quarantine policy so that the message is clear to all our compatriots. In this regard, it is essential to clearly identify who is doing what, what are the responsibilities. The mission of Foreign Affairs, in this specific context, is to inform our citizens, whether here or elsewhere, as much as possible of the decisions that are taken, whether these decisions are made by such powers as the Interior or Health or those of the Regions. We will ensure, at the level of foreign affairs, that we communicate, as a channel of information, as clearly as possible, the decisions taken by the various authorities in our country. As I have said many times, the fight against the VOCID-19 is a common fight that must be fought in a coherent and fully collaborative manner to ensure that, as soon as possible, we can finally get out of this crisis that is difficult for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u33	Mr. Secretary of State, "un debat communion," you say. You can't be serious. Let me summarize your answer. You say that travel is taking place in Europe and that a travel advice has been given for a few countries outside Europe. If we then ask how you will ensure that the journey does not cause a new pandemic, you refer to the ruling of the Council of State that it is not up to you to take action in this regard. So we let thousands of people enter the country every day and one month and four days after the expert group said that urgent action was needed to avoid the risk of further outbreaks due to travel behaviour, you open certain limits. But when we ask how you will avoid further contaminations, the answer is that you are not competent in this matter. As a colleague has just said, we are making sure that people can travel, but we must also do everything we can to prevent a second outbreak, with new economic damage. You don't have an answer to that. If there was a strategy, whether it consists of quarantine, fever measurement or tracking, which ensures that we are immediately on top of it if something goes wrong, you would have said so here. There's just nothing worked out. There's only thousands of people coming into the country. However, it did not fall out of the sky, the experts raised the issue 35 days ago in their opinion. The last sentence of that opinion was, moreover, the question of making the opinion public, perhaps because politics is not following. In those 35 days, has there been anyone in the federal government who felt responsible? Are you simply satisfied with the opinion of the Council of State that you are not competent? So don't let it bother you, let it travel and make flights possible again. For the record, it is a good thing that people can travel and I am in favour of it. It is a shame, however, that at the same time it is still not possible to guarantee the safety of the population and the economy. Last week we heard here in committee one of the editors, a doctor himself, from the renowned medical magazine The Lancet, and we briefly talked about this. Do you know how he described the behaviour of the Belgian Government and some other governments in relation to travel? He was talking about gambling. You're just hoping it doesn't turn out fatal. I hope that this will be corrected very quickly, because today there is no answer. That's downright hallucinating. On 7 July, 35 days after the opinion of the GEES, there is a journey and there is no answer to the question of how to control the health risks. How will you avoid a new economic blow? You don't have an answer to that. Moreover, in order to clarify the powers, you did not need the Council of State, because there are enough meetings of the Consultative Committee and discussions between ministers. Tonight one will come together to see how the quarantine and follow-up will be organized, on July 7th evening, 35 days after the advice of the experts. That is not a 'debat communion', Minister, it is a disgrace.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u34	Minister, I am also a little hungry and did not think the answer was quite clear either. You answer that you rely on the civic spirit. In my opinion, the interests are too great for that. We count on the civic spirit so often. There should always be a sense of citizenship, with or without COVID-19. I am therefore a little concerned, both for health and for the economy. A second wave would be catastrophic. People, and especially people who have to travel for their jobs, will still fly and a second wave will give our airport, the second largest economic engine in our country, an extra blow. There they are now at 10% of the normal number of passengers. We need to be clearer, and I also expect more stringent measures and agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u35	Minister, there is a lot of sliding, umbrellas are being opened and responsibilities are being passed on. You referred, for example, to the Minister of the Interior. But when the borders were closed and we had the debate here on the reopening of borders, the opening of borders proved to be your competence. Now that travellers come back into the country, the authority in that regard lies with someone else. Mr Crombez referred to an opinion that was 35 days old, but as early as March, virologists advised that they would often disagree with each other but that they would work out a roadmap against when borders would open again to avoid a second wave. That was in March, we are now in July and there is still nothing. That is simply unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u36	Minister, it is clear that there is no plan of action. It is hard to understand that there are no lessons to be learned after the first wave. Experts' opinions are simply ignored and responsibility is passed on. It is incomprehensible and shows little sense of responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if I may, I will reply in French to be as precise as possible. Colleagues, I am somewhat surprised at your reaction. So I will clarify what I am saying. It is not a question of saying that it is considered to be the fault of others or not. Indeed, I do not subscribe in any way to this scheme. I have clearly explained the levels of power and the responsibilities of each other. That is the first point I wanted to make. Indeed, it seems to me normal, in the interests of transparency, to know who does what. We're in a government. As I said, we have worked a lot with the Regions. It is important not to break this solidarity. But I repeat that it is important to know who does what and how. Besides, you seem to say that, since the beginning of the crisis, we have remained totally passive. I recalled at the beginning of my speech that non-essential travel had been banned in the course of March. First, we managed the VOCID-19 each within our borders. In fact, some people at the time were surprised. We handled the issue in Belgian space. I would point out here that, in the context of previous questions, some have criticized me for not having organized enough repatriations. On 15 June, in collaboration with all the European countries where health conditions were the same as ours, it was decided to allow European nationals to travel from one side of the border again by taking certain measures. I invite you to ask my colleagues who have specific skills to respond, as I do in the most precise way possible within the framework of my competences, to the measures implemented to ensure that all the efforts of our people are not wiped out. As of 15 June, Belgium's borders were therefore opened only for the Schengen++ area. Here, we take a precautionary step in the interests of prudence. On the basis of the opinion of CELEVAL, which drew our attention to the fact that in the list of 15 countries, the opening of borders could be allowed again for 5 and then 6 countries. Kern decided to apply the reciprocity rule. What is the situation today? Apart from the so-called essential journeys, one does not return to Belgium when one does not come from a country outside Europe, in any case, from a country in the Schengen++ area. You are now saying that nothing has been done, that nothing has been planned and that, as the Council of State ruled on 3 July, it was considered to be quiet. That was absolutely not my point, or so I misspoke myself. I therefore repeat once again that the reopening of borders has been structured in the context I have just communicated, after having closed them. We have structured how to organize the repatriation of our nationals stranded abroad under the conditions you know. At the public health level, the general message is that if people come back with symptoms, they should immediately go to their doctor. We never said anything else. It was also said that those responsible could also enter voluntary quarantine, eventually feeling out of a region at risk. But I would remind you that until June 15, 2020, our borders were closed. Secondly, the epidemiological criteria adopted by our experts indicated that a reopening could be organised at European level. And today we remain closed to the area outside Schengen+. I think that this is still an element of caution that needs to be noted. I think we can still explain each other's skills. One can still have the transparency to say that, for that part, the competent decision-making authority proposing a decision is such a department and then joint decisions are taken. We worked through the whole crisis under that regime. I should not remind you of the number of NSC meetings we held with the Regions, the government and the various members of the National Security Council. I should not remind you of the number of CCO meetings that have actually been held to share the meetings, but I did not think it was abnormal simply to explain who, at some point, proposes decisions and who, behind that, assumes all the decisions, as they have been made to date. It therefore seemed useful to me simply to recall this state of affairs. You're talking about airport situations. You're talking about situations on the roads. You are talking about the problems of diverging positions between countries, whether Germany, the Netherlands, France or Belgium. You know, like me, that health policies are national policies and that I was one of those who advocated - and this is a historic message from Belgium - for the greatest possible harmonisation, except that we are here in a somewhat different pattern. The opinions of the experts are clearly not the same in Germany, France, Belgium and the Netherlands. We have focused on CELEVAL's opinion on the specific problem of reopening borders outside Schengen+ and that is what I have tried to explain to you as clearly as possible. But to make me say that we haven't planned anything, that we haven't done anything, and that we've been on our hands since the start of the crisis, I'm sorry, but you know like me that's not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u38	I am surprised, Minister, that you are far too intelligent for that. Your answer wasn't about the essence. The essence is that there is a pandemic, which shrinks our economy by 9% and that the pandemic has claimed 10,000 deaths in Belgium. It will not be said that there will be a moment to examine who is now competent. Then the people hope that the ministers, with the power they have, will assume their responsibilities so that everything goes well. What does it mean that everything is going well? I say that the necessary measures have not been taken for 35 days. If non-essential travel is to be allowed again, because it is fortunately possible to do so again, then all protection and safety measures must also be put in place. There aren't any. If they had been there, you would have mentioned them. All you have mentioned is the opinion of the Council of State that others are competent to do so. Once again, this evening's meeting will take place, this evening, 35 days after the opinion on who is competent. I am not asking about everyone's powers. I know everyone's powers. I wish that, now that we can travel again, one of those governments will finally take responsibility and ensure that security is guaranteed, that the economy does not collapse again and that thousands of people are not killed again.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u39	Madam President, I think Mr Crombez knows me well: I like the debate and I apologize for taking it in my language, but it will be easier, because even in my language I seem to have difficulty making myself understood. In this case, this is a trial of intent that I cannot admit. Mr Crombez, through you, has been asking since this morning to have a discussion on my competence by saying that there is confusion on the subject of the opening of borders, the possibility of travelling or not. We wouldn't understand it anymore! I immediately replied that it was important for Parliament to be discussed in order to see exactly what it is like to travel or not and how to do it. That is what I have done, in the most transparent and rapid way possible. I am always trying to be at the disposal of Parliament. I'm still proving it today. Mr Crombez, I understand that you wanted to broaden the debate. You know there are other ministers. I'm in solidarity. I'm in a government. We are also in a CNS in which the Regions are represented. We have made all the decisions we have made. Simply, there are times when one or the other, in relation to his skills, comes to present them. You know that like me. You've already participated in other governments. It is certainly not I who will explain to you how it works, your experience is greater than mine. You can now admit that I come before you at your request and I find it quite normal for a minister to explain his policy. In the face of a doubt about a subject relating to my skills, in this case the way I travel, I consider it normal to explain how this should be done and to be as clear as possible. I have read in the press a certain cacophony as to whether one can travel or not, and my point is very clear. I have repeated this repeatedly: you can travel to Europe, but if areas are reconfined, it is not advisable to travel there. That makes sense to me and you have heard it from other ministers: for people returning from areas that have become more dangerous, quarantine is applicable. You know that just like I do. As far as travel outside Europe is concerned, the message is clear: it is not possible to travel, on the one hand because some countries have not been validated by CELEVAL and, on the other hand, because those that have been approved do not practise reciprocity. For the rest, we can debate for a long time and I am not opposed to it, but in another context. I am thinking of how other elements that are broadly integrated into the policy of the VOCID-19 crisis should be taken into account. In this regard, everyone will be most able to respond according to their own skills. I have been questioned today, I repeat, in response to the Foreign Affairs section, on the clear part of the competences that are directly mine. For the rest, we have to take on the decisions made. I believe that ministers in their jurisdictions will be more specific than I can be in explaining the dynamics of implementation and the policies proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u40	Minister, you don't have to take it personally. I'd even like to give you a feather. At least you'll come up with answers. Mrs De Block has also been asked, as far as her powers are concerned, to answer the question of how things are being assured and she is not coming. As a member of this committee, I am tired of saying that after all this time no one can say what security measures have been taken to avoid a new pandemic with terrible consequences for the economy and health to countless deaths. You do not have to take that personally, but you are appointed as Minister and it is up to you to ask those questions. If there is no answer in Parliament as to what the protection and security measures are, then they are not there. It's as simple as that. A large part of the population, entrepreneurs and families, are not travelling and want to know whether people from a number of countries will come back and bring the virus back and whether we will have to see again what we have been through over the last few months. That the answer to these questions does not come is the big problem, Minister, but I would like to praise you because you are here to answer, unlike your colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u41	Can we close the debate with that plume?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u42	We are here to debate, Madam President. I'm not worried about that. Mr Crombez, I did not take your point personally. Of course, we need to mark and delimit the debate. And you kindly made it known. I come when I'm called, as far as possible. As far as quarantine is concerned, I think you're a lawyer, just like I am. So you know that the legal basis for making quarantine measures mandatory does not exist. That is why Minister De Block, like others, has advocated that she should be voluntary and testify to an act of civicism. I repeat that every citizen, whether he or she has travelled or not, who would have been in a difficult home - which is why tracing must be organised - and who would have the slightest doubt about symptoms which unfortunately suggest that he or she would be suffering from the virus is invited to take the necessary medical steps. Quarantine is therefore proposed on a voluntary basis, as is the case in other European countries. A message is distributed to people returning from risk areas, such as Spain. Let us imagine that, unfortunately, some of our compatriots found themselves in a problematic perimeter and quickly re-established. I would like to point out that, alas, the situation can change very quickly. That is why it is proposed a voluntary quarantine. It is first of all a protective reflex for others and, moreover, an act of civicism to be performed in the slightest doubt. I repeat, but I invite you to question the competent persons, who can give you a very precise answer. It is simply important to carry out civic actions that are respectful of public health issues. To conclude, Mr. Crombez, I will try not to have feathers – because we cut them sometimes – but to answer you as fully as possible. You know my approach as such. I would also like to thank you for highlighting it. Now I'm stopping, I think!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u43	Mr Crombez has the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u44	Minister, I must disappoint you, I am not a lawyer, far from it. Minister, the most incomprehensible thing is that when tourism is allowed again, it has not been agreed in advance by the governments and the Minister on what legal basis the necessary will be done. That is why I always refer to the opinion of the GEES. Voluntary quarantine, that's how things went wrong in the beginning. Research has been carried out on this subject and it has been written about it. If the virus comes in and infections are traced too slowly and insufficiently infected persons are quarantined, then it will end up in a drama in no time. We're not dealing with a hailstorm here, we're dealing with a pandemic. Why did no one in June, as soon as it was announced that they would be allowed to travel again, follow the advice of the experts to create a setting and a legal basis for safe travel? There is no such policy, and I keep saying that as an economist.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u45	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Ben Achor's 55007129C has been postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u46	Madam President, Minister, the circumstances of Operation IRINI are well known to us. We also know that a ship has recently refused a check. For the details, I refer to the text of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u47	Mr President, how many ships have already refused control and how often has that happened with intervention by the Turkish Navy? Last month, a spokesperson of the European foreign service stated that those responsible for the IRINI operation can only report an effective refused control to the United Nations. What is the point of the whole operation if checks are only possible if the parties concerned agree beforehand? Has there been any consultation at European level on Turkey's action? Has the Turkish Government been called upon to do so? Has there been any discussion within NATO on the incident with the French frigate Courbet? If so, what is the outcome of that consultation? Do you believe that Turkey can still be a reliable NATO partner and deserve a place in our alliance?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union began the IRINI mission in early April to monitor the arms embargo on Libya. To that end, naval forces had been placed in front of the Libyan coast and could, in case of suspicion, control cargoes destined for Libyan ports. Recently, an incident took place. Suspected of carrying weapons illegally to Libya, the cargo ship Cirkin flying the Tanzanian flag and chartered by Turkey was indeed subject, on the morning of 10 June, to a check by a Greek frigate participating in the European operation EUNAVFOR MED IRINI. Acting under the mandate of the United Nations, the operation has very strict rules of engagement and seeks to obtain information in accordance with those rules. In this case, this type of escort, composed of three Turkish frigates, declared in support of Operation NATO Sea Guardian, did not respond to the request for information. It was the Turkish military who did so, stipulating that the ship was chartered by and under the protection of Turkey, and that it was transporting medical equipment to Libya. Considering the ambiguity about the legitimacy of a visit to Turkey's claims invoking the client's sovereign immunity, the IRINI Commander limited the action to radio questioning and maintaining contact. Under the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, where there is a flag State, Tanzania in this case, the consent of the flag State is required in order to conduct an inspection, which was lacking in the present case. Subsequently, a French frigate under NATO command, in the framework of Operation Sea Guardian, was reportedly also the subject of a hostile attitude on the part of the Turkish frigates. The IRINI mission carried out more than 130 checks and information requests: more than 100 on the arms embargo and 29 on the oil embargo. These controls, which do not include similar incidents, have allowed the collection of information involving the two actors of the conflict. They were documented and transferred to the United Nations. To date, no delivery of weapons has been intercepted. Following the incident, France has decided to withdraw its frigates from NATO's Sea Guardian operation. Turkey has announced that it will be available to cope with the capacity deficit resulting from the French decision. At present, however, there is no particular impact of military cooperation with Turkey on NATO. At the NATO Ministerial Meeting of Defence Ministers on 17 and 18 June, I wanted to support my French colleague and expressed my concern about this incident, which undermines solidarity between the Allies. Secondly, I reiterated our support for the full implementation of United Nations Security Council resolution 2473 calling for an arms embargo for Libya. At present, NATO military authorities are studying a report submitted by the military authorities, which establishes facts on the basis of national technical data, and which will propose that better conflict prevention be developed in the future. Today, there is no Belgian participation in Operation IRINI or NATO's Sea Guardian.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u49	In your reply, Minister, I believe you confirm some of our concerns. You also know that the Flemish interest has already expressed reservations about the approval by a large number of EU Member States of the IRINI operation on 1 April, because it pursues the same objectives as the previous operation, Sophia, which clearly demonstrated that it achieved everything except the intended objective, quite the contrary. If we now also see that we are being refused control, we are, of course, very far from home. In this way, the smuggling of arms and human beings must not be allowed to continue unhindered, and that is not the intention at all. The explanation for Turkey's action is obvious: Turkey, which has been actively involved in the Libyan conflict, naturally wants to prevent Turkey's arms deliveries to Libya being interrupted and that is reflected in the necessary obstacles. So history repeats itself and the EU once again allows Erdogan to draw the sheet. For the time being, as far as we are concerned, Operation IRINI seems to be a battle in the water, literally, especially if it turns out that controls are only possible if the parties concerned agree, as you confirm. Even if Belgium is not directly involved in the operation, we are indirectly, willingly or not. In this once again, we call for close consultation with both the EU and NATO, in which we as a country must clearly express our concerns in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u50	Mr Minister, first of all, I think it is essential to prevent the NATO acronym from being hijacked in some national missions, as it may have been the case in this Turkish mission. Secondly, in terms of coherence, the IRINI and Sea Guardian missions should be better combined. Finally, it would be important to have a genuine dispute resolution mechanism within NATO. Indeed, if, for the time being, this seems to resolve in a political way, it is important to avoid the recurrence of conflicts at this level between France and Turkey.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u51	Madam President, Minister, I refer to this pure madness to impose sanctions against the International Criminal Court and those persons of the international judiciary who are trying to put an end to the worst war crimes in various conflicts around the world. How does Belgium intend to guarantee the continuation of the work of the Court and the Office of the Prosecutor despite the threats made by President Trump? What is the position of the European Union and how can Belgium clarify the suspicions of fraud, financial corruption and embezzlement within the Office of the Prosecutor which also tarnish the image of the ICC?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u52	Mr. Minister, you have – quite rightly – said that you are deeply concerned about the repeated threats and new measures taken by the United States against the International Criminal Court (ICC). Indeed, the U.S. President announced economic sanctions to deter the jurisdiction to prosecute U.S. soldiers for their involvement in the conflict in Afghanistan. You also indicated that Belgium's support for the Court, as an independent and impartial judicial institution, was unwavering. On these two points, I can only join you and congratulate you. But in this context where, once again, the United States – in any case, President Trump and his government because we use the term United States, but there are other sensitivities in the United States than those of Donald Trump – but the government of Donald Trump and the President himself dangerously question multilateralism repeatedly and the importance of international organizations such as the ICC. I would like to ask you the following questions. What could be the consequences of these American measures against the ICC on its functioning when the United States is the host country of the United Nations? Finally, at both bilateral, multilateral and European level, how does Belgium position itself in this context in order to preserve the integrity and independence of the Court and its officials?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the consequences of the statements made by the President of the United States are potentially drastic. Persons whom the United States administration wishes to strike may be struck at any time, without prior information from the persons they have listed. They may concern a wide range of persons, staff of the Court and natural and legal persons in relation to the Court, including representatives of the institutions of the States parties and members of organizations such as NGOs, cooperating with the Court, and members of the family close to them. However, many ICC staff members have connections with the United States. Many of them have worked at the United Nations in New York and have family, school children, bank accounts, etc. Banks, not only in the United States, generally tend to voluntarily comply with US sanctions, to avoid negative consequences. This could lead to difficulties in the payment of wages by banks. This could also have consequences at the level of ICT providers, insurance policies, ICC pension funds, search for possible withdrawal options for the Court's New York Liaison Office, risk that some airlines will refuse ICC staff. Finally, not least, such measures may have a negative impact on the continuation of investigations into the situation in Afghanistan, although these are difficult to predict and measurable, given the secrecy of the investigation. The spokesman for the Secretary-General of the United Nations notes, however, that in statements by the Secretary of State, Mr Pompeo, prior to the executive order, it was said that: "any restriction against persons would be implemented in a manner consistent with the host State's obligations under the United Nations Headquarters Agreement". The spokesperson added: "Cooperation between the United Nations and the ICC is based on the relationship agreement which was approved by the General Assembly in 2004." However, it cannot be ruled out that the next session of the United Nations Assembly, which is to be held at the United Nations Headquarters in New York from 7 to 17 December 2020, will be undermined by the adoption of the executive order. Following the initiation of an investigation into Afghanistan and the request for an investigation into the situation in Palestine, the Prosecutor, Ms. Bensouda, recently stated that, by virtue of her powers under the Rome Statute and the preliminary elements of which she is aware, she had an obligation to act in those situations. It also recalled that it had always been certain that the Court would have to deal with difficult cases and would be subject to political resistance. The Prosecutor is of the view that a step backwards in these cases would be a fault and a disservice to the ICC. The measures announced by the President of the United States are neither a first nor arguably the last crisis facing the Court. Let us remember the opposition of the African Union and, since 2015, threats of withdrawal of the Rome Statute of Kenya and South Africa, as well as the effective withdrawal of Burundi and the Philippines. Belgium will continue to cooperate with the International Criminal Court as it has always done, in accordance with the provisions of the Rome Statute. At a joint virtual meeting of the Hague and New York working groups of the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute of the ICC on 30 June, the Registrar of the Court, Mr. Peter Lewis, made a detailed presentation on the potential impact of the measures announced in the presidential decree of 11 June 2020 on the work of the Court and the Office of the Prosecutor. This information will enable States parties to discuss next steps. On 15 June, in response to the presidential decree authorizing the possible imposition of economic sanctions and visa restrictions on certain persons associated with the ICC, including officials of States parties cooperating with the Court, High Representative Borrell, speaking on behalf of the European Union, expressed the European Union's grave concern about the measures announced, reconfirmed the unwavering support for the International Criminal Court and stressed the unacceptable nature of those sanctions, the content and scope of which were unprecedented. The High Representative recalled that, in its fight against impunity, the ICC must be able to work independently and impartially. The European Union remains committed to defending the Court against interference aimed at obstructing justice and undermining the international criminal justice system. The European Union strongly advised the United States to cancel the measures authorized by the Presidential Decree. As the High Representative on behalf of the European Union rightly states, at a time when the rules-based international order is facing increasing pressure, the strengthening of the international criminal justice system is more important than ever. Your last sub-question probably refers to the accusations made by Secretary of State Pompeo in his press conference on 11 June. This is a source of great perplexity. Are these charges against former Prosecutor Ocampo, or are they current or recent? I do not have the answer to this question, but I would like to inform you that in accordance with resolution No. 7 adopted by the Assembly of States Parties to the Rome Statute of 6 December 2019, at its 18th session, an exercise to assess and identify avenues for strengthening the ICC and the Rome Statute system, which calls for, among other things, an evaluation by an independent group of experts, has been launched. In principle, the final report of the independent experts is expected, together with their recommendations, by 30 September 2020. Belgium follows this process very closely and contributes to it whenever States parties are called upon to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I must confess that I am very proud that Belgium is behind the ICC, all the more so as a result of these truly abhorrent attacks by the US President, which are seriously undermining the international criminal justice work carried out by the Court and also by the Office of Prosecutor Bensouda. I think that these sanctions are usually applied to the worst terrorists, and not at all to those who are trying to do justice. I think it is important to continue to support the work of the Court. It's really out of the question of going back on this file. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u55	Minister, thank you for the accuracy and quality of your answer. Like my colleague Cogolati, I am pleased to see – but you had already said before answering this question – how much Belgium is committed to the proper functioning of the International Criminal Court and also wants to preserve its prerogatives and defend its competences, institutions and the people who make up it. I wanted to resume a point of debate when we referred a few days ago to Belgium's intervention in Iraq and Syria. I told you in particular at the time that the international context had changed since the arrival of Donald Trump and his administration. From the moment we engage with partners who question multilateralism and, in particular, the International Criminal Court, which has, in its missions, the task of verifying and investigating war crimes that can be committed, it is nevertheless true that I remain puzzled by the fact that I associate so systematically with American demands which, in any case today, reject all multilateral aspects, but which are there to seek the assistance of countries in coalitions against certain jihadist-type forces. I reiterate my complete distrust of United States policy today and the way in which intervention is designed to establish peace in certain parts of the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u56	Mr Minister, I agree with these questioners, although my question has a different subject. My question concerns the situation in Eastern Congo. In the field of sexual violence, East Congo is a nevending story. Also in the area of sexual violence. There were again deaths during a meeting between the MONUSCO and the rebel groups in Beni on June 22nd. This incident would be investigated by the Congolese authorities at the request of Belgium. The incident is typical of this region. Like I said, a neverending story. Already 1,300 civilians have died there in recent months. It remains a disturbing region. Hence my questions. A UN peacekeeping mission has been under way in Eastern Congo for years, the mission of which was extended in December 2019. The situation was also discussed in the UN Security Council on 25 June. Minister, can you give the latest information on the meeting between the UN blue helmets and the armed groups in Eastern Congo? What were the conclusions of the UN Security Council meeting on 25 June on the situation in Eastern Congo? What steps will the UN take? Can the MONUSCO no longer be used to protect the civilian population?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u57	Colleagues, my recent visit to Kinshasa with my French counterpart Jean-Yves The Drian and European Commissioner Lenarčič had in the first place a humanitarian objective. It took place within the framework of the European Commission's airlift, which is organised to allow the delivery of personnel and humanitarian aid in the face of the VOCID-19 crisis. The European Union has financed a total of three flights to the DRC. These flights are the result of a joint effort by the European Union, Belgium and France, as well as humanitarian organisations in cooperation with the DRC authorities. My participation in one of these humanitarian flights was an opportunity to show our Congolese partners that our country and the European Union as a whole remain in solidarity with them in the face of this global crisis. During my on-site interviews, the Congolese authorities informed me of their appreciation of this gesture of solidarity and the visit also had a positive echo in the local press. This is my first trip to the DRC and it was an excellent opportunity for me to have discussions with President Tshisekedi, the Prime Minister and some members of the Congolese government on the response to the VOCID-19 crisis in the DRC as well as on political, socio-economic and security issues. I also had the opportunity to interact with representatives of civil society, who shared their vision of the country's progress and challenges at the health, socio-economic, electoral reforms and good governance levels. In addition, funding for EU humanitarian flights has provided a budget of EUR 19.5 million, in particular to support community awareness-raising actions on measures to prevent coronavirus and actions to improve access to health care. Enabel, the Belgian development agency, plays an important role in this support, since it has been entrusted by the European Union with setting up a programme to strengthen the Saint Joseph General Hospital in Kinshasa, which is responsible for the care of the patients of VOCID-19. This is a financing of €5 million for two years via the Development Monetary Fund. The security situation in eastern DRC was mentioned several times during my visit, both by President Tshisekedi and by several members of the Congolese government. Unfortunately, this situation has deteriorated in recent years, and there has been a significant upsurge in violence in northern South Kivu as well as in Ituri since the end of 2019. Around the city of Beni, the Congolese army supported by UN force MONUSCO has made some progress in the fight against the ADF armed group. But the situation remains very volatile, as unfortunately was once again highlighted by the recent murderous attack on MONUSCO, which our country publicly condemned. In Ituri, the signing of a peace agreement with the FRPI armed group was a positive step forward. Unfortunately, elsewhere in the province, the security situation remains alarming and the humanitarian crisis has intensified further in recent months. The resolution of these conflicts goes beyond military efforts. That is why our country continues to insist on these exchanges with the Congolese authorities as well as in the various multilateral forums, including within the Security Council, on the need to address the root causes of these conflicts. On 25 June, the UN Security Council indeed discussed the situation in the DRC on the basis of the UN Secretary-General's Tri-Mesterial Report on MONUSCO. Our country took the opportunity to insist on the implementation of the recommendations of the UN report on increasing the effectiveness of the MONUSCO intervention brigade. Better cooperation between the MONUSCO and the Congolese armed forces is crucial. The leadership of MONUSCO indicated that progress has been made in this respect. Nevertheless, there is a shared Belgian concern about the need for other reforms in the security sector in the DRC. A joint proposal from the UN and the Congolese authorities for the transfer of certain tasks from MONUSCO is expected in October. Effective protection of citizens and an adequate response to the root causes of conflicts will be the most important criteria for Belgium. With regard to Amnesty International's recent report on the DRC, it is true that in the fight against impunity – including pre-election violence – much work remains to be done. To do so, it is essential that the country has an independent and effective judicial system. This is a subject on which I particularly stressed during my various meetings on the spot. In that regard, it was encouraging that the President had undertaken to reform the judicial system by appointing new magistrates and that, since his inauguration, police officers who had committed violence in the repression of demonstrations had been prosecuted. Nevertheless, much remains to be done, in a difficult political context, as illustrated by the current tensions around proposals for reform of the judiciary. Indeed, some provisions seem to have a negative impact on the independence of the judiciary. Belgium attaches great importance to the fight against impunity and to independent justice. In our discussions with the Congolese authorities, these themes are regularly discussed. At the multilateral level, we also continue to draw attention to the fight against impunity in the DRC. This was still the case very recently in the Human Rights Council, with the interactive dialogue on the DRC. Moreover, it is worth mentioning that Belgian Development Cooperation now has a political framework for its action in the security sector, which includes justice. In the DRC, we support the programmes of several non-governmental organisations such as Lawyers Without Borders, NCR Justice & Democracy or CNCD-11.11.11, which aim to promote transparency, control and accountability mechanisms within the public administration, including in the judicial system. In addition, ASF and RCN Justice & Democracy support the latter by strengthening the organisation of Congolese civil society, which serves as an interlocutor for the authorities, as well as by supporting and training actors such as local bar associations and specialized journalists. For its part, NCR also aims to foster interaction between formal and informal justice mechanisms, while training judicial personnel – including magistrates. Twelve Congolese personalities are currently subject to European sanctions, which also apply those of the United Nations. The result is a considerable increase in sanctioned individuals and entities. I invite you to visit eurosanctionsmap.eu for more information on the identity of these people. This list is expected to be reviewed by December next. However, it is too early to comment on the desirability of a possible lifting of some of these individual restrictive measures. European sanctions are designed to trigger behavioural changes and are designed to be renewed annually on the basis of public information on sanctioned individuals. This is a collective exercise of 27. I can assure you that my services are following this very closely and that Belgium is continuing its work of gathering evidence to enable informed decision-making in the process of revising these sanctions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u58	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I believe that there will be no democratic transition in the DRC, if the rule of law is not strengthened, if impunity is not combated, if justice is not guaranteed. It is with this in mind that our aid for development cooperation, as well as support for civil society, must be included. You mentioned, for example, the ASF. We must absolutely and resolutely support the Congolese authorities in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u59	Minister, I agree with what Mr Cogolati said. It was a very full answer. Criminal impunity, corruption, justice are issues that need to be addressed in Congo. I would also like to add safety. I started in Parliament in 2008. Back then, we were in the process of taking action against sexual violence in Eastern Congo. At that time, this item was high on the agenda. The situation is still just as bad. Children are raped by rebel groups when they go to school. Women and men are shot on their way to their fields. That's daily food in East Congo. Years ago we had a military program in East Congo with training for Congolese military. Perhaps with a new government hopefully we should consider a new agreement. You mentioned the transfer of the MONUSCO to the Congolese army. The most important thing is that the soldiers are paid and well trained. I think it will take a lot of follow-up to protect the people there.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u60	Minister, I will allow myself a little update of the situation since my questions are no longer really relevant. I would like to know, above all, whether the two flights of TUI fly are still current. Indeed, several people alerted us that there was only one flight per week, namely Friday instead of Saturday and Tuesday. Is that correct? If that is the case, I do not understand why those concerned have not been informed when one knows how extremely difficult the situation is on the spot. Moreover, there is still no open borders in sight in Morocco, as could be the case here in Belgium or in any case within the European Union. We know that thousands of people remain blocked in Morocco. I think it's really important at least to keep these two flights weekly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u61	Madam President, Mr Crombez and Mr Cogolati, it is true that for about a week the lockdown measures in the interior of Morocco have been relaxed. For example, it is once again possible to circulate between cities for essential reasons. However, Morocco's borders are still closed, which means that our compatriots still cannot travel to Belgium in the usual way. That is why the flights facilitated by our country are still continuing. Also, the Moroccan authorities must give their agreement beforehand before a fellow countryman can return to Belgium. Despite the relaxation of measures within Morocco, Moroccan airspace remains closed. Our embassy in Rabat, my counterparts from the Netherlands and France and I maintain regular high-level contact with the Moroccan authorities, with whom we plead for a quick solution for our compatriots who are still blocked in Morocco. I have also raised this issue many times at European level. Since 2 June, nine TUI flights have been facilitated by my services and this has already been mentioned in the previous commission. In addition to the medical and social reasons that you have pointed out, we are also mobilizing for humanitarian and economic reasons. This applies, for example, to persons at risk of losing their jobs in Belgium because they remain stranded abroad. I can assure you that my services are trying to find a solution as soon as possible for anyone facing such an urgent situation. The reason why countrymen have still not been able to leave is simply because demand transcends supply. I would like to point out the exceptional and difficult circumstances in which a small team of the embassy has been trying to assist our fellow countrymen for several months and in various ways. An earlier initiative by my services, where five experienced consuls were ready to join the post in Rabat, was not allowed by the Moroccan authorities. After intense negotiations and thanks to the developments in Morocco already mentioned, I can tell you today that the capacity of flights will be significantly increased to 280 people each. The first flight took place on 3 July; the second flight will take place on 10 July from Casablanca airport and, once again, with the permission of the Moroccan authorities. Compatriots will be contacted by TUI to finalize the practical modalities, after which they will receive an electronic ticket. The cost remains the same for each flight. I recall that at this stage we have already repatriated 4,500 compatriots from Morocco. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u62	Minister, it is a good thing that the conditions for eligibility for flights have been extended to include economic humanitarian reasons. Morocco is one of the fifteen countries in the EU recommendation, and it seems to me appropriate to increase the number of flights from Belgium in the short term, in order to transfer the remaining people now that conditions have been extended.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u63	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would just have a little clarification question in order to be able to answer the Belgian citizens who are blocked on the spot in Morocco and who are calling on us. You tell us that the capacity of the flights will be increased. But is it true that TUI fly will only allow one flight per week or will the two flights be properly maintained or even increased every week?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u64	I do confirm that, at our request, TUI has increased aircraft capacity in order to better manage returns. As Mr Crombez also said, it is hoped that this will be regularised as soon as possible. So we're heading for one flight a week to have the most efficient return management possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u65	Minister, you said it yourself, "de vraag overstijgt het aanbod." It is important not only to increase the capacity of each flight but also, if possible, the number of flights per week because once again, the situation has been unlikely for weeks and months for these people in distress.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u66	Mr Cogolati, what is also important to communicate to people who turn to you is that, as I said in my reply, the embassy remains involved in the process. We need to receive the requests. We transmit them each time to the Moroccan authority that has to validate them and then, it returns to TUI. Unfortunately, all this takes time. We need to know that there are waiting lists and lists to be submitted to the Moroccan authority. We know that with this system, we do not create false hopes of rapid return, but we are at least sure - or at least we hope - to have a more transparent and clearer validation of waiting times. Indeed, it is illusory to make people believe that registering implies an immediate response. I repeat that there are three stages: the embassy that receives the request, the Moroccan authority that validates and TUI that initiates the flight. That's what explains the process.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u67	Minister, I understand you. I also believe that, vis-à-vis the Moroccan authorities, there is still a message to convey. The measures have really been relaxed within the Moroccan territory, as you said. Therefore, it seems to me quite discriminating with regard to the Belgo-Maroccans in particular to prevent them from returning to Belgium, to work, to their families, while the other Moroccans can move almost freely or in any case much more freely than several weeks ago inside Moroccan space. I very much hope that these measures vis-à-vis Morocco's external borders can be relaxed for our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u68	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, the deadly violence in the Himalayas on the Sino-Indian border on 15 June 2020 was a shock, particularly for China and India. Each country has its own version of the facts. India communicates more in the most transparent way in this regard. According to Indian reports, the Chinese side wanted to change the co-territorial status on the real line of control, ignoring bilateral agreements, to prevent and resolve border incidents in that area. It was this attitude that led to the death of twenty Indian soldiers and probably also Chinese soldiers. This border dispute can only be resolved jointly by both countries. Moreover, what happened on 15 June cannot be dissociated from Beijing's actions in the China Sea. In the latter case, the position of Belgium and the European Union is that China must respect the rules of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, to which it is a party. Border disputes must be dealt with peacefully in accordance with international law. I note that India is seeking ways to respond peacefully to China's actions on the disputed border. It examines in depth its relations and cooperation with China, in an attempt to find a solution to this dispute. Their relationships are important. These are two of the world's largest economies. In addition, both countries speak at very high military levels in order to achieve de-escalation and a return to normal conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u69	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u70	Minister, as you know, during the previous parliamentary term, the House adopted a resolution aimed at clarifying and repealing the pension scheme granted to former Belgian military employees of the German national socialist regime during the Second World War. Could you therefore, Mr Minister, indicate to me the follow-up you have given to the requests contained in this parliamentary resolution since my previous question? What is the status of the discussions with the German authorities in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u71	Minister, the House of Representatives adopted a motion for a resolution on 14 March 2019, to repeal the pension scheme for former Belgian military employees of the Nazi regime. I would therefore like to take stock with you. Have all the information been sent by Germany? For your part, did you send him the text of the resolution adopted last year? Have you taken any steps with the German ambassador in Belgium to obtain more information on the identity of the Belgians receiving this pension? Did Germany reply to you about the establishment of a bilateral scientific committee? Finally, can you assure us that no Belgian collaborators will yet receive a German pension for collaborating with the Nazi regime?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u72	Mr Minister, my group, as well as other groups in Parliament, has been dealing with this issue for some time now. On 14 March last year, the Chamber adopted a resolution on German war pensions, which some Belgians still enjoy. That resolution called for three things. Get information from the North Rhine-Westphalia authorities to check that there are certainly no collaborators, war criminals, getting such a war pension. Also try to set up a scientific committee with the German authorities. Minister Reynders gave an update on 9 October last year. This question is intended to bring about a new state of affairs. Is there any additional information from North Rhine-Westphalia concerned about the number of Belgians receiving a German war pension? Has information been provided by other German Länder than North Rhine-Westphalia? Or is there other news, for example in the field of cooperation with other European countries? Is there any progress in setting up a scientific committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, according to our diplomatic mission in Berlin, the German Parliament has not so far obtained a majority in favour of setting up an independent committee in cooperation with North Rhine-Westphalia and other Länder allowing Belgian and German researchers to examine the working procedures of the Bundesversorgungsgesetz, which is responsible for the payment of war pensions. Moreover, the databases provided by the Ministry of Social Affairs of North Rhine-Westphalia show that four out of a total of eleven persons are beneficiaries, including only one man for whom it has been confirmed that he has never been convicted of human rights violations or non-compliance with the rule of law. Our embassy continues to monitor developments in the case and keeps in touch with the competent authorities in North Rhine-Westphalia. The German embassy in Brussels is also well aware of the issue. For the other countries concerned, the issue of war pensions seems to be the subject of local consultation between the competent parties. Finally, it is highly likely that this topic will be put on the agenda of the next visit of the German parliamentary group of Benelux, which was postponed at the end of March following the health measures linked to the crisis of VOCID-19.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u74	Madam President, Minister, I would really like to make you aware of the problem. It's not just a problem of number. It is also a justice-related issue that needs to be addressed. Moreover, when we talk about the colonial past and a special commission, regardless of the number of years that have passed after the crimes or abuses, it makes sense that justice can run its course. As is well known here, in order not to receive compensation from the German State, one must be considered a war criminal. However, despite all the efforts Germany has made since 1945, it remains true that only part of the thousands and thousands of potential war criminals have been prosecuted. This means that today some people still live in impunity and benefit from it to receive a pension from the German state. This is all the more troubling because, in principle, those people, who have sometimes been convicted, on the other hand, in Belgium, should pay the amount of such compensation to the Belgian State, which does not seem to be the case. I will come back with requests for clarification in the future and, above all, with more specific questions to the Minister of Justice, who is in charge of following up on the judicial aspect of this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u75	Minister, I really agree with the appeal of my excellent colleague Lacroix. We cannot continue in 2020 to reward people who have collaborated with the Nazi regime. I have heard that the German Parliament has not obtained a majority in favour of an independent committee. I must confess that on 9 October your predecessor did not tell us much more. Frankly, in 2020, it is time to move towards an end to impunity for these former collaborators of the Nazi regime. I think there could be a way to summon the German ambassador to Belgium to explain to him that impunity is simply no longer acceptable and that we absolutely want to move towards the end of these compensations or pensions paid to former collaborators, including a former SS, as we know.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u76	Minister, it is indeed time to move a gear up and certainly keep the pressure high enough. The problem is that the German list of convicted war criminals does not necessarily correspond to the lists of collaborators available to Belgium. It is absolutely essential that both lists are added together. As Mr Lacroix said, not every war criminal has been convicted in Germany, far from it. Both lists should be merged. A scientific committee is needed. It would be very good if you could continue to urge the German ambassador in Belgium to make this possible from Germany. In recent years, Parliament has paid due attention to it across party boundaries. We will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u77	Minister, I would like your opinion on the action plan for human rights and democracy. How do you want to act on a number of issues, including human rights defenders and gender equality? How will the action plan be operationalised in EU trade cooperation and investment policy? We have talked about the Mercosur agreement and the agreement with Mexico, we will soon talk about the free trade agreement with New Zealand. It is very important to be able to integrate this struggle for the respect and promotion of human rights through these trade policies. Do you support the introduction of binding legislation at European level on the duty of corporate vigilance? We must not only support the UN Treaty on Business and Human Rights, but also develop own European and domestic legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u78	Mr Cogolati, support for human rights defenders is a priority of Belgian foreign policy on human rights. Belgium encourages its diplomatic network to maintain regular good contacts with civil society and to report regularly. In addition to supporting ethics and morals, our country also provides financial support to human rights defenders. The European Union has several instruments and has developed guidelines for human rights defenders. The European Union's political support for human rights defenders goes hand in hand with specific financial support through the European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights, through programmes such as the Emergency Fund for Human Rights Defenders at Risk (ProtectDefenders.eu), human rights crisis facility or European Endowment for Democracy. In the current political climate, human rights defenders are under pressure. I therefore welcome the strengthening of the action plan to consolidate the action and support of the European Union for human rights defenders. Gender equality, which is more inclusive than gender equality, is a priority in Belgian human rights policy. Belgium welcomes the fact that gender equality, women's and girls' rights and the agenda "Women, peace and security" are widely addressed in the Action Plan and calls for this strengthening. Control of arms exports remains a national prerogative, but EU Member States are required to comply with the 2008 Common Position, which contains criteria to be verified before issuing arms export licences. One of these criteria relates to respect for human rights in the countries of destination. The common position was revised last September and Belgium proposed stricter assessment criteria for human rights. However, no consensus has been reached in the European Union to date. In December 2019, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Ministers agreed on the principle of the European Union, which must address serious human rights violations and abuses worldwide, by establishing a new sanctions regime. Discussions continue on the scope of the scheme. Once finalized, the Member States of the European Union will be able, by unanimous decision, to impose restrictive measures such as an asset freeze with a travel ban on those responsible, with the aim of ending serious human rights violations. Belgium is actively participating in the discussions in order to establish an effective and functional regime. The European Union's trade policy offers a range of instruments that can be strengthened to promote human rights. For example, the generalized tariff preference system for developing countries is conditional on compliance with the principles of a series of international conventions on human rights and labour law. A broader tariff exemption can be granted to vulnerable developing countries that ratify and effectively implement these international treaties. Enhanced monitoring could serve as an additional lever, in particular for third countries that are major exporters under this preference system. Since 2011, the European Union's free trade and investment agreements also contain commitments to respect the core labour standards of the International Labour Organisation. The Commission has been closely following this aspect of the agreements for several years and will now entrust the future Chief Trade Enforcement Officer with the explicit task of closely monitoring the implementation of these provisions by trading partners. I believe that the actions on business and human rights included in the action plan do not provide for sufficient commitment from the European Union. A European Union action plan should contain a record of the important developments that have taken place in recent years in this area. For example, various conclusions of the Council of Ministers of the European Union in recent years have stated that the European Union must develop a European Union action plan on responsible business conduct. The action plan on human rights and democracy should therefore refer to a business and human rights action plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u79	Mr Minister, I really hope that you will see to it that these priorities are being pushed into the negotiations in the Council, since I know that this report is on the Council table, and that it is still under negotiation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u80	Madam President, Minister, it has been a long time since Parliament has had much to do about whether or not to release reports on the atrocities committed in 1960 and subsequent years in decolonization and in the post-colonial period in the former Congo. A committee of inquiry was set up by the government in the 1960s. It is reported that that committee has produced a report of up to a thousand pages, comprising three parts: testimonies, a whole number of minutes and also a part with the synthesis and conclusions. There are two copies of this report, one of which is held by the Court of Cassation and one by the Foreign Affairs Office. So far, at least as far as we in Parliament know, the content of that report has still not been released, even though many questions have been asked about it. In the latest reply we received, it was stated that the Minister of Justice must decide on the release. For this reason, I sent a written question to the Minister of Justice in February, but it was never answered. Now that the situation regarding Congo is coming up again, I have tabled an oral question with regard to Minister Geens. However, he referred me to you. I therefore hope that you will not refer me back to him, but that you will answer my questions. Since we are now 60 years after the facts, I think the time is more than ripe to take note of these events. Mr Minister, has that report already been fully released, is it available for inspection and can it be published? If that is not the case, will you, preferably immediately, take the initiative to do so, so that the report becomes available to researchers and the wider public?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u81	Madam President, Mrs Pas, as regards your question about the report on the crimes committed against white people in the Congo in 1960 and beyond, a committee of inquiry on violations against certain persons in the Congo at the time was set up by the Royal Decree of 16 July 1960. The committee was led by the former advisor of the Court of Cassation, Mr Delahaye. That committee would never have produced a final report, but it would have produced some interim reports. As regards access to the elements of those reports, a copy of which would be at the Foreign Affairs Office, my predecessors have already sought advice from the competent authorities, in particular the Commission on Access to Administrative Documents (CTB) and the Commission on the Protection of Privacy. In its opinion of 8 July 2002, the CTB considers that these are administrative documents and concludes that the reports are eligible for disclosure within the meaning of Articles 4 and 5 of the Law of 11 April 1994, taking into account the requirements concerning the protection of privacy of the persons named or identifiable in the report. In its opinion of 12 August 2002, the Commission concluded for the protection of privacy that, since the data contained in the report do not relate to identified or identifiable persons, they cannot be considered as personal data within the meaning of the Act of 8 December 1992 on the Protection of Privacy, as compared to the treatment of personal data. The Commission considers that the question of access does not fall within the scope of that law.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u82	Mr Minister, I may not have understood correctly, but you read the opinions already given in 2002 on whether or not to disclose. May I conclude from that that these matters have still not been made public? Are these current opinions still valid 20 years later? Let me read your answer carefully. Perhaps I did not understand your Dutch correctly, but if the law does not apply, is there any reason not to disclose it or not to grant access to it? I would like some clarification on that. Otherwise, Madam President, I propose that we take this question with us to the Special Committee on Congo, when it is set up here, in order to clarify it. In the case of persons, the situation has changed 20 years later as regards the conditions for disclosure. The opinions to which you referred, Minister, date back to 2002. That is also the year in which the parliamentary debate took place to which I referred. That is not the current and current state of affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u83	Of course, this will also be discussed in the special committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u84	My services are effectively trying to use alternative procedures. This has already been done in Gambia where we have been able to rely on a great deal of goodwill. After a lot of efforts, we managed to use a window of opportunity to get the baby to Belgium. In other circumstances, it is sometimes even more difficult. If the airspace is completely closed to incoming passengers, there is no alternative if local legislation obliges adoptive parents to come and get the child personally. Account must also be taken of the complexity of the state apparatus on the ground, where several entities are responsible for the adoption, the departure of the child and the general rules on quarantine and the free movement of travellers. In consultation with Child and Family, my services are investigating whether any flexibility can be obtained from the local authorities, without taking any risks regarding the legal certainty of the procedure. The dossiers we have taken note of are at different stages and concern several countries. For most, there are still a few steps to be met locally before a departure to Belgium can be considered. The sanitary situation varies from country to country and it is difficult for me to comment on the decisions that will be taken by every local authority in relation to sanitary measures. It's a bit of a gamble, but I think the files that my services know can be sorted out during the summer. Adoption falls essentially within the competence of the Communities. My services have knowledge of three Flemish couples whose file has been completed and who are awaiting the arrival of the child. A number of other files will normally be completed during the summer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u85	Mr Minister, completing an adoption procedure is not an easy task in normal circumstances, let alone in times of corona. Due to lengthy procedures, adoptive parents have to wait years for a child, which is made even more difficult by the coronapandemic, because travelling abroad is and remains very difficult. It should be possible for adoptive parents to travel to the country where they adopted their child, taking into account all health measures. I am pleased to hear that you are doing this and that the Foreign Office is also following the paperwork. In any case, I hope that a solution will soon be found for all those adoptive parents so that they can close their babies in their arms.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u86	Minister, it is important that the embassies should be able to deal with visa applications quickly enough and that they should give sufficient priority to visas for adoption procedures and even provide for an exception.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u87	Madam President, Mr Moutquin, the migration situation and the current migration challenges were discussed at the videoconference of the Ministers of the Interior and Migration on 5 June. In particular, the situation in Malta was discussed. The pressure on Malta due to the arrival of irregular migrants and asylum seekers increased considerably in 2020. Malta has therefore sought support from other Member States, in particular in the form of relocation. Indeed, these arrival figures combined with the situation of VOCID-19 create a difficult situation for Malta, which is criticized for its approach by various actors. For example, the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights, in a statement following this documented incident, called on Malta to allow agencies and organisations to monitor Maltese vessels off the coast and to call for concrete measures to remedy the current situation. The European Commission also confirms that maritime safeguard missions remain a priority and highlights efforts to find coordinated solutions, but I also note that rescue and landing missions are the responsibility of each Member State. A criminal investigation into the circumstances of the incident mentioned in the question is also under way in Malta. An international and national follow-up to this incident is therefore already under way. In this context, Malta and the Commission are calling for lasting solutions to relieve front-line Member States. What is currently a problem in the debate on rescue at sea is the question of disembarkation and relocation of migrants after their rescue. For the time being, these issues are settled on an ad hoc basis, not without difficulty. For this reason, Belgium has long advocated structural reform of the Common European Asylum System, a reform that takes account of the objective migratory pressure faced by the various Member States and provides for solidarity mechanisms for the most affected Member States, including relocations. Belgium therefore hopes that the new draft pact on asylum and migration to be presented by the Commission will lead to negotiations for a review of the common asylum system, that structural reform of this system can be initiated quickly, with respect for human rights and the principles of solidarity and responsibility towards all Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u88	Minister, two things I want to point out. First, the total illegality of what happened to this boat, the Dar Al Salam. Indeed, under international law, it is a matter of push back, preventing migrants in distress from landing and returning them, moreover, to a country at war where there are countless reports, including on trafficking in human beings. It's gravissim. I hope that an investigation, not only national but also international, will be possible, and I encourage you to support it. Secondly, I have already asked you a question, and unfortunately I will rely on similar cases for you, because as long as European policy does not have a coordinated migration policy – and I am adding more humane – cases like this will still happen. The last time you replied, and I come back to that, that Belgium had not wanted to participate in an initiative of European countries without the European Union as a whole joining this initiative. That's not true. Your government did not wish to participate in this relocation, since the Belgian Parliament has voted a resolution to encourage you to participate. We have a mismatch here between what the legislator brings to Parliament and your government's decision. I really encourage you not to wait for the European Union to reach an agreement. The migrants on these boats are not waiting. If you want to wait for Viktor Orbán's Europe to reach a more humane agreement on migration policy, I think I will unfortunately still have to ask you a lot of questions like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u89	Ms Van Bossuyt, in the Joint Communication of the European Commission and the High Representative, Vice-President, of 12 March 2019, considered China as both a partner, a competitor and a systematic rival. This approach marks the beginning of a more realistic, assertive and holistic approach by the European Union towards China. In the same philosophy, the European Union-China Summit took place on 22 June 2020 by videoconference. The European Union was open about its expectations towards China. The fruitful exchange during the summit shows that permanent engagement is needed. The European Union and China therefore continue to work together, inter alia, on a joint strategic agenda for the period 2020-2025 and an investment agreement. Belgium fully supports the EU approach. The European Union and China want to develop ambitious cooperation, including reciprocity and a level playing field. In doing so, the European Union must continue to press for China to respect international rules and standards and to respect commitments made. In its relationship with China, as in its relationship with other partners, the European Union must base itself on its own autonomy, values and interests. The relations between China and Belgium are good and have been shaped by decades of exchanges in a wide range of domains. The interest in further cooperation remains strong, including among Belgian companies. The China Trade Commission of November 2019 led by Her Royal Highness Princess Astrid is the largest ever organized in Belgium and bears witness to the dynamics of that relationship. During the COOVID-19 crisis, both countries also actively supported each other. Such cooperation should continue in the further course of the crisis and the subsequent recovery.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u90	However, like the European Union, Belgium also wants to ensure respect for international rules and standards and a level playing field, as well as for the commitments made. Raising awareness and mutual understanding will help. Malicious cyber activities have increased significantly in recent years and have become a reality facing both our citizens and businesses as well as governments. These are often cybercriminals, but also states are regularly referred to as responsible. The increased possibilities, but also the willingness of states to make use of them, are very worrying. It is important to provide an appropriate response as a country, both in terms of our own resilience and in terms of the international response when an attack has taken place. As far as our resilience is concerned, I guarantee you that there will be hard work behind the scenes, with the necessary results for our cyber security. For specific questions on Belgian measures on digital security and cybercrime, please refer to the Centre for Cyber Security under the jurisdiction of the Prime Minister. As far as the international response is concerned, our country is focusing on multilateral fora. The UN is currently negotiating exactly what appropriate state-of-the-art behaviour in cyberspace means. Our country is actively participating in this. It concerns the practical application of international legal obligations in the online environment. In addition, organisations such as the EU and NATO allow appropriate responses to be formulated. Since 2017, the European Union has had a cyber-diplomatic toolbox that allows for appropriate diplomatic responses and for sanctions against individuals or entities. This toolbox is currently being developed and allows for a more assertive role of the European Union, and hence of our country, on the international stage. It is important that the existing agreed normative framework is also effectively respected by all countries worldwide, including China. The bilateral and multilateral dialogue on its practical implementation is therefore something that we attach great importance to.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u91	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I noticed that you said at the beginning that there must be a realistic approach to China. China is, of course, an important trading partner for our country. You referred to the (...) that took place. They're definitely a reality. But we cannot hide the fact that China also has its own agenda. Think of everything that has to do with 5G, and Huawei. The reciprocity and the level playing field you mentioned are indeed very important. As regards cyber security, and the possible attacks I referred to, we see that cybercrime is always increasing. I have not received an answer to my question as to whether Belgium has itself been the victim of such cyber attacks, but, if I understand correctly, I have to ask the Prime Minister that question. I will.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u92	Mr Cogolati, like you, I am very concerned about the indications of the practices of organ removal, abortion and forced sterilization. I have taken note of the resolution that you are referring to in the Senate. Belgium's current policy in this area is fully in line with the content of the resolution. Thus, as part of the Belgian intervention during the universal periodic review of China in November 2018, our country has asked China to extend a standing invitation to the special procedures and to respond positively to the outstanding requests of the special rapporteurs to visit the country. Belgium also called upon China to ratify the International Treaty on Civil and Political Rights, the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture, the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance and the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court. In addition, our country has formulated questions and recommendations on transparency regarding the death penalty and the importance of publishing statistics, as well as on the situation of ethno-religious minorities such as the Uighurs. All these themes are addressed in the above-mentioned resolution. Belgium is also associated with several initiatives with like-minded countries calling on China to grant significant Xinjiang access to the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights in both the Human Rights Council and the Third Assembly of the United Nations General Assembly Commission on Human Rights. Our country also supports a strong and unified position of the European Union in relation to the human rights situation in China, including the rights of ethno-religious minorities, the death penalty and the forced removal of organs. These themes are raised in the human rights dialogues between Europe and China, among others. The latest one is April 2019. As you know, Belgium is following the situation closely and will continue to do so. This is also illustrated by Belgian support for the joint statement of 30 June in the framework of the Human Rights Council, where our country once again expressed its concern with like-minded countries about the human rights situation in Xinjiang.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u93	Minister, Bolsonaro's Brazil is over 50,000 dead. What is Brazil's policy at the WHO table? Can it refuse to apply the rules of distancing and wearing the mask advocated by WHO? Can a state sovereignly decide not to take preventive measures to protect the health of its population? Does Belgium support the Brazilian population in any way in the fight against VOCID-19?"
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u94	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, Brazil is indeed, in absolute terms, the second most affected country in the world having exceeded the target of one million cases of VOCID-19 and 50,000 deaths by mid-June. The pandemic, which has been confined to large cities for a long time, is spreading outside these cities to countries where medical infrastructure is often inadequate. International law does not contain mandatory standards for States in terms of the choice of measures to protect public health. The reaction of the central government is generally described as problematic. The President openly opposed social distancing and continued at the end of June to promote chloroquine and its derivatives as a priority solution to the problem, even at the level of initial care. On the other hand, the government's response in economic and social matters, with economic stimulus and derogations attributed to the most affected persons, is regularly judged in a favourable manner, in particular by the international financial institutions. It is also important to note that federated entities and municipalities play an important role in the fight against the pandemic in Brazil, some with policies aligned with WHO recommendations. In addition, Brazilian excellence in immunology and medical devices and the dynamism of the private and voluntary sectors are reflected in a number of important vaccine initiatives. The Belgian representations in Brazil try to promote academic cooperation between our country and Brazil on the basis of already existing links. They also support projects for the production of open source breathers based on the Breath for Life model developed by UCL researchers. The on-site diplomatic post is also trying to develop micro-projects in the most affected areas, Amazonia and São Paulo, where possible and in collaboration with subsidized Belgian NGOs and their local partners. A work by our embassy has also identified several corporate social responsibility projects developed by Belgian companies on the spot. Belgium is also present through the projects of the specialized agencies of the United Nations, the international development banks and the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u95	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u96	Mr. Cogolati, on 24 June, the Specialized Prosecutor's Office issued a press release announcing its decision to introduce an indictment procedure for the President of the Republic of Kosovo, the President of the PDK and an unspecified number of persons. In total, there are ten counts, including those you mention in your question. It is now up to an investigating judge of the specialized chambers to confirm these charges. The President announced on 29 June that he would resign as Head of State if his indictment was confirmed. This element has no impact on the diplomatic relationship between Belgium and Kosovo, which, moreover, are very good. This is a decision taken by the judiciary, which we will refrain from commenting on the merits. You'll understand that! In principle, Belgium attaches great importance to the fight against impunity and support, the work of international justice, in particular that of the specialized chambers of Kosovo. Cooperation with these specialized chambers is governed by the Act of 29 March 2004 concerning cooperation with the International Criminal Court and international criminal tribunals. To do this, the law was amended on July 11, 2018. An adequate legal framework therefore allows for the examination of requests for cooperation from the specialised chambers to Belgium. The central authority for cooperation with international criminal tribunals established following the enactment of the Act of 29 March 2004 may also conclude cooperation agreements with specialized chambers. These agreements are confidential and so I cannot tell you any more. The central authority is part of the international humanitarian law service of the Justice FPS. With regard to the dialogue between Belgrade and Pristina, the announcement of the decision of the Specialized Prosecutor led to the cancellation of the meeting scheduled for 27 June in the White House between the Serbian and Kosovar Presidents. It is more than likely that this decision will have an impact on the level of representation of the Kosovar delegation and possibly also Serbian at future meetings. Nevertheless, I do not expect it to call into question the resumption of negotiations. It is in the interests of both parties to reach a definitive global agreement. However, the chances of success of the Serbo-Kosovar dialogue also depend on the Kosovo political scene, characterized on the one hand by a government with only a small parliamentary majority and not a majority in the ethnically Albanian caucus. On the other hand, internal divisions within the party of Prime Minister Hoti LDK, (...) the Head of State and the main leaders of the PDK party, all from the Kosovo Liberation Army.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u97	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u98	Ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks Libya has seen worrying developments. We have seen the national union government of Fayez el-Sarraj regain, with the active support of Turkey, control of the Libyan West, including Tripoli, which seems to have ended the offensive carried out in April 2019 by the opposing camp led by Haftar in the Libyan capital. As you indicated, the front is now located in Sirte, whose capture by the GNA could lead to Egyptian intervention in Libyan territory. The situation is alarming. For several months, and in various fora, whether at the UN Security Council or at the EU Foreign Affairs Council, we have condemned the outside interference in this proxy war that has become Libyan theatre, as well as the flagrant violations of the UN arms embargo, and we have called for a ceasefire. As far as NATO is concerned, while the Alliance is following the situation in Libya very closely, it is not planning to play an active role at the moment. It is therefore urgent that the dialogue between Libyan actors on a political solution be resumed, as outlined collectively in Berlin earlier this year at a conference that brought together all the parties involved in this conflict. Belgium has consistently supported the efforts of the United Nations to implement resolution 2510 and the efforts of the United Nations Support Mission for Libya (UNSMIL) to mediate among the belligerents. The recent resumption of discussions in the Joint Military Committee is in itself a positive development. Furthermore, Belgium calls for the prompt appointment of a successor to Mr. Salamé, the Secretary-General's Special Representative, to better guide the political process. Since the beginning of the year, High Representative Josep Borrell has wanted the EU to take over this issue by identifying diplomatic options for implementing the Berlin operational conclusions. We support its efforts and, in this sense, the launch of Operation IRINI last April is an essential element of European intervention to support de-escalation on the ground. At this stage, Belgium does not contribute to Operation IRINI from an operational point of view. I conclude by deploring the impact of this conflict on the civilian population. Today, in Libya, one million people are in need of humanitarian assistance and there are 450,000 internally displaced persons in the country. Migrants in the country (over 650,000 people) also pay a heavy toll, such as recently in Mezda, where 30 of them died in an attack by a militia linked to human traffickers. Finally, we demand that all the light be shed on the numerous mass graves discovered in Tarhuna in western Libya.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u99	Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive answer. I am very pleased to learn that the EU is finally reacting more proactively through its High Representative, Mr Borrell. I note that Belgium is placing itself behind the efforts of the EU and diplomacy to attempt de-escalation. I hope that Mr Borrell's efforts will bear fruit and that we can help this people as quickly as possible. You have noted the number of one million people with acute humanitarian needs and that of 650,000 migrants. You also recalled that you would be vigilant and would call for non-impunity for those responsible for the mass graves that were discovered.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u100	Very quickly, I would like to reiterate the need to prevent and combat the slave trade that has emerged in Libya, to which migrants and refugees who cross the territory are subjected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u101	Mr. Boukili is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u102	Minister, today, three of my questions are about Palestine. The last refers to Salah Hamouri's arrest. I announce that I am withdrawing this question because Salah Hamouri was released this morning. I will ask you a question about the administrative detentions by Israel because it is interesting to dig into this illegal form of detention. For the rest, I'll be quick. A resolution was adopted last week, supported by a large majority. The first of the three points of the resolution was to prevent annexation. It did not take place on 1 July, but we know that the intentions are still there. Can you tell me what has been done to prevent this annexation? My second attached question concerns the ratification of the Euro-Mediterranean air agreement with Israel. A priori, Belgium did not oppose this agreement, unlike Luxembourg or Ireland. But it was already an opportunity to develop a first step towards countermeasure. I would like to have your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u103	Madam President, Mr Moutquin, thank you for your questions and I also note, with you, the clear signal sent by Parliament on the Israeli annexation plans. As you know, foreign affairs are fully mobilized on this subject with our European partners. Mr Boukili is not here, but your questions stressed that measures in response to unilateral annexation must be taken, where appropriate, at European level. It is therefore first and foremost within the Council of the European Union that this debate should take place with our partners on the basis of analyses by the European Commission and the European External Action Service (EEAS). In this context, Belgium calls for the Council to have such analyses available as soon as possible and discusses the range of possible measures, taking into account the different aspects of bilateral relations between the European Union and Israel. I spoke very clearly on this point at the Councils of 15 May and 15 June. A possible annexation will have legal implications for relations between the European Union and Israel, as well as diplomatic and political implications. First, it is up to the Commission and the EEAS to provide us with the analyses expected. I therefore do not wish to discuss the various options that could be considered in practice at European level. At the bilateral level, one of the instruments that we will need to strengthen will be the policy of differentiation. This is an obligation arising from European legislation, United Nations Security Council resolutions and existing jurisprudence. Our discussions are continuing at the Council of the European Union on 13 July. With this in mind, Belgium has initiated and participated in various initiatives with the European institutions to request such analyses on possible measures and to encourage an open debate on the subject. We have sustained exchanges with our partners like-minded but also beyond, at my level and at the level of diplomatic services and posts. In particular, I have always met with my Jordanian and German counterparts. On Thursday I will go to The Hague where the question is on the agenda of my meeting with Minister Blok. As far as the air agreement is concerned, the issue concerns institutional issues of procedures, timing and the state of the intra-EU debate. On institutional and procedural issues, the Council had already dealt with the matter upstream and should, at this final stage of the procedure, only confirm the agreement after Parliament's approval. It was a purely formal question without debate on the substance. In view of this situation, our initial intention was to ask for a postponement of the item on the agenda, but it appeared, after analysis, that there was a need for unanimity, which we would not have obtained. But above all, as I have just outlined, our efforts are currently focused on the debate in the Council of the European Union with regard to the EEAS and the Commission in order to obtain an option paper that would list all possible measures. It is only by acting within the framework of the European Union that we can have an impact. If we act unilaterally at this stage, even before internal discussion and formalisation of action, we risk losing leverage for further discussions. It would indeed be important to have another like-minded but also other Member States that are evolving in our direction. Moreover, the air agreement obviously incorporates a territorial clause and a possible annexation will, like all agreements, require a reassessment of the scope of its implementation under this clause. With regard to our multilateral initiatives, we recall those same principles at the level of the Security Council at each monthly debate. You may have read Belgium's last statement to the Security Council on 24 June, which is particularly strong in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-07-07-55-commissie-ic230x.u104	Minister, I feel you're in a rather busy schedule. So I'll just thank you. You know I'll ask you again about this.
