ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u1	Colleagues, there are a number of oral questions on the agenda. Minister, we are going to change the order of business. As you adapt to your agenda, colleagues have also adapted, depending on other committees. We shall therefore begin with questions No 55003097C by Mrs Frieda Gijbels and No 55003098C by Mr Kurt Ravyts, attached for the circumstances. We adapt a little, if you agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u2	Yes, I agree, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u3	It has come to light that in the 1960s the Royal Library purchased a work of art by Félicien Rops, which turned out to be predatory art, art that was unjustly taken from a Jewish family from Paris by Nazi Germany and then resold. The rightful heirs never saw anything of the proceeds. According to the Washington Convention, the Royal Library is obliged to track down and reimburse any heirs. How is it that the KBR only now found out the origin of the work, and then by researching a newspaper? Doesn't the institution itself have a protocol in that regard? There are 8 million works in the collection of the KBR. How many of the works are possible art of robbery? What measures will you take to verify the origin of the works? One of the tasks of the KBR, according to the Royal Decree of 19 June 1837 establishing the Royal Library of Belgium as a scientific institution, is to manage, preserve and complete an important cultural heritage. How exactly is that assignment completed? What exactly is the term cultural heritage?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u4	The Royal Library of Belgium has been in the possession of a watercolour by the artist Félicien Rops, you know, from the collection of the Jewish lawyer Dorville. The work was forced to be sold during World War II in the context of anti-Jewish measures. On 4 February 2020, you stated that the KBR is willing to return the work to the family or at least to the relatives and that the KBR should check whether the family in question has an effective right to the work of art. In view of the presence of Jewish art in our country, based on the final conclusions of the Study Committee on Jewish Goods, the available and verified provenance data of certain works of art would not only be placed on the websites of 11 museums concerned, but also in a central database of the Federal Science Policy, with links to the Communities' websites and the museums concerned. On 10 December 2019, you admitted in our committee that delays in implementation required a delay in posting to the public until spring 2020. That moment is now upon us. What is the state of play regarding the return of the cited artwork by the KBR? What is the status of the announced central database on Jewish predatory art in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u5	During the period in which the work in question was purchased, the origin of a work of art was not so important. The Belgian Committee's investigation, in which the KBR cooperated very constructively, limited itself to the robberies and losses on Belgian territory during and after the Second World War, the period from 1940 until the beginning of 1960. The watercolour was purchased in 1968. The investigation of the missing Jewish cultural goods dating from after the Second World War only resumed after the Washington Conference. Today, in the purchase or acquisition of artistic and historical objects, a more thorough provenance research is carried out in the KBR. Origin research today is a little easier than it was at the time due to the strong growth of digital resources and the opportunities offered by the Internet and new technology. Today, we have specialized research cells and institutes and data from many individual studies that have mainly been carried out on the subject over the last two decades. Origin is not only a valuable indication in determining the authenticity of objects, but it also protects from purchases linked to criminal activities. In addition to objects that were stolen during the Second World War, it is also carefully examined whether patrimony pieces were not illegally excavated or come from recent war zones, where the local heritage is systematically plundered. It is not clear whether there is any other predatory art in the collection, given the extent of the heritage managed and the impossibility of verifying the origin of each acquired object. I would like to point out that, for example, Rops' watercolour was purchased from the KBR in good faith at the time. The KBR will investigate the origin in collaboration with BELSPO and will try to identify the heirs. Since the robbery took place in France, the competent authorities in France and Germany will be contacted. We would like to point out that the KBR did not receive a request for restitution. Thirdly, cultural heritage or heritage means very diverse collections. These range from printed books, drawings, prints, engravings, manuscripts, scores, posters, photos, coins and tokens to maps and plans. The KBR manages 8 million units. She is therefore the largest detention facility in our country. The collections are kept in the Book Tower, in the KBR building in Brussels and in an external depot in Péronnes-lez-Binche. They're managed by a team of curators. There are also experts on preventive conservation and restoration in the KBR. The collection is finished in various ways: through the legal deposit, through purchases and through donations. The KBR, in consultation with BELSPO, initiated an investigation to identify the heirs and to study the historical aspects of the origin of the watercolours from the former possession of Armand Dorville. As the robbery took place in France, both aspects will be contacted with the competent official bodies in France. Posting the database online can no longer be postponed, because 6 of the 11 museums involved have already put the artworks from Jewish predatory art online, as the Service for Economic Recovery (DER) already mentioned. The paintings of the 5 other museums are largely documented in the database of the Royal Institute for the Art Heritage (KIK). That is why I asked the chairman of the Science Policy PPS, BELSPO, to do everything possible to ensure that the database goes online as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Since the mission of the Royal Library is to manage, preserve and complete the cultural heritage, the question arises as to why it was never found out where the various artifacts and artifacts came from. If I am not mistaken, the KIK is also engaged in the inventory of art on the territory. I hope that there will be an effective and active search for other works that came into our possession illegally.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. We have to take a little realistic attitude, given the volume that the KBR manages. I think she acquired the work of art that was spoken of in full good faith in the 1960s. In any event, it is important that a maximum effort is made to contact potential family members or heirs of the original owner, even if the question for restitution was not immediately asked. With you, I look forward to setting up the central database on art robbery, which was one of the Senate's recommendations in 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u8	Mr President, Minister, the National Lottery pays around EUR 180 million of its profits annually in the form of grants to various public bodies, charities, sports and cultural associations, and so on. That decision is made annually by royal decree, the last time in the Royal Decree of 23 May 2019. Mr. Minister, I have the following questions. What criteria does the government apply when granting grants? Do you follow the proposal of the subsidy committee or do you deviate from it? Is reporting or financial transparency required from host institutions in exchange for such funds? Is that monitored? What opportunities do new organisations have to apply for these support mechanisms? Is the granting of subsidies a purely political choice? We all know that you officially endorse the grant committee's proposal, but I would like to know to what extent you or your cabinet are actively intervening in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u9	Mr President, Mr Roggeman, I have an answer consisting of four points. As far as your first question is concerned, the law of 19 April 2002 provides that the plan for the distribution of grants is to be adopted by the King, on a proposal from the Minister responsible for the National Lottery and by a decision adopted after discussion by the Council of Ministers. The distribution plan distinguishes between the different purposes of public utility. Some matters and beneficiaries are directly determined by the Law of 19 April 2002. It concerns, for example, subsidies which are transferred directly to the Communities under the terms of the Finance Act of 16 January 1989, without the Federal Government knowing how these funds are allocated. But it is also about development cooperation, the National Cash for Disaster Damage and the King Baudouin Foundation. These grants together already constitute 78% of the annual grants of the National Lottery for 2019. Some 17% of the National Lottery grants are awarded to institutions and organisations of particular social interest, such as Child Focus and the Red Cross, and to institutions of particular cultural or scientific interest, such as cancer research, specific projects on poverty and social integration, renovation projects and specific events and institutions working on strengthening social participation. Slightly more than 5% of the grants are not listed in the distribution plan. In that case, the Minister responsible for the National Lottery shall decide on the distribution and special conditions for granting. These grants may be awarded after prior advice from a jury, the composition of which he has determined, when a call for projects is organised. Grants may also be awarded following an opinion of the National Lottery Grant Committee, where applications relate to actions which enhance national or international character in sectors of a social, cultural, sporting or scientific nature. I come to your second question. Here too, a distinction should be made between the various categories of subsidy. For example, the Royal Decree of 23 May 2019 provides for the determination of the provisional distribution plan of the National Lottery grants for the 2019 service year, which divides each grant into categories A, B, B' or C. Category A: legal representation or body whose budget is subject to the agreement of the Minister for the Budget and which does not require prior submission of supporting documents before payment is made. Category B and B': grants are intended for other bodies, where payment of the balance of the grant depends on the submission of the budget for the year in question and on the accounts for the previous year. Category C: grants payable on presentation of paid invoices. Since the purpose of the grants charged to the profits of the National Lottery is legally confirmed by explicit legal provisions and royal and ministerial decisions taken to implement them, and as this therefore falls within the competence and responsibility of the Belgian State, this destination is subject to the provisions of Articles 121 to 124 of the Law of 22 May 2003 on the organisation of the budget, but because of the control which the Belgian State is entitled to carry out, the National Lottery may also carry out any on-the-spot checks it deems necessary in respect of any file it has examined. Thus, the National Lottery can check whether the subsidies were correctly used for the purposes for which they were granted. I refer in this respect to Article 38 of the management contract. As far as your third question is concerned, any non-profit-making legal person governed by public or private law may apply for grants for projects on an online form. All information about this will be made available transparently on the website of the National Lottery. As far as your fourth and final question is concerned, the National Lottery grants which are nominated in the annual distribution plan fall under the responsibility of the government which, in line with the government's policy, has a certain discretion. As mentioned, some categories of beneficiaries are determined by law. With regard to grants granted to the Communities under the Finance Act, I do not have any further information. For the award of grants not nominated in the annual distribution plan, the opinion of a jury shall be sought when a call for projects has been organised or the grant committee of the National Lottery when the applications relate to actions which enhance national or international character in sectors with a social, cultural, sporting or scientific vocation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for the excellent and comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u11	Minister, a few weeks ago, the National Lottery made all the newspapers with another record win. The big boss, Jannie Haek, exulted that more than 1.44 billion euros were deployed at the National Lottery and that 6.4 million people bought a product from the National Lottery at least once. An important role for growth is the Lottery's digital channel, which grew almost a quarter. These are hallucinating figures, given the continuous increase in the number of gambling addicts in our country. However, Mr Haek saw no problem in himself and went to the private sector, which he considered to be the cause of the problem. For example, he stated that it should not be possible for sports betting providers to sponsor large numbers of football clubs. I have the following questions, Minister. How do you think a growth in the turnover of the National Lottery is compatible with the fight against gambling addiction? According to Mr Haek, the National Lottery does not offer risky games, such as online casinos or bingo cabinets. What he doesn't mention is that the National Lottery offers a whole series of e-games with titles like Wheel of Fortune, Bingo Magico and Bingo International. What are the addiction risk derivatives of these specific games? Can you provide the risk estimates of experts of the Responsible Game Committee for the e-games of the National Lottery or at least tell us what those opinions are? According to the management contract, the Council of State must give advice on new games, after which the Council of Ministers must decide. Can you provide the relevant advice and decisions? The National Lottery is increasingly targeting young people in advertising. For example, she is constantly present at festivals and his certain games are thought of as CA$H unbridled aimed at young people. Is that consistent with the social responsibility of the National Lottery? Do you think it is justified that the National Lottery should explicitly target young people? Finally, Jannie Haek rightly complains that private companies sponsor football teams and at the same time allow bets on those teams. However, the National Lottery does the same, by sponsoring, for example, Anderlecht and Charleroi. What is your opinion on this? Is it ethical, in your opinion, that the National Lottery is sponsoring teams and allowing bets on those teams at the same time? If so, why? If not, would you like to lay down new guidelines on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u12	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, you have asked a lot of questions and since I want to be complete, I have a long answer. Mr President, please excuse me, but I'm going to take off my jacket, because I'm too hot! I had to run to the meeting. I should do a little more sports. [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u13	Security has no price, Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u14	Mr Van Hecke, let me begin by reminding you of the reality of the figures for your first question. In 2006, when online gambling was not allowed, the turnover of the National Lottery amounted to 1.2 billion euros. Thirteen years later, this turnover is EUR 1.4 billion, an increase of 20%. Nevertheless, the consumer price index increased by 26%. This increase in turnover should therefore be taken into account. The result is therefore mixed on a multiannual basis. This is easy to explain by offering online gaming from 2011. This has since experienced spectacular growth. The National Lottery estimates that its market share in the lotteries and gambling sector would have fallen from 85% to 15% during this period. As far as the fight against gambling addiction is concerned, I myself systematically subject the National Lottery to stricter rules than those applicable to the gakoperators under the supervision of the Gaming Commission. Among other things, the National Lottery fulfills a channeling mission which consists in convincing players to opt for less risky forms of gambling. The fact that the turnover of the National Lottery has been growing again since 2017 after years of stagnation seems to me to be a success. This indeed means that the National Lottery has managed to present a more attractive offer without increasing the market and with a very low risk of addiction. As for the first part of your second question, the National Lottery's mission is to offer the players recreational games, but also to protect the vulnerable groups. Before launching a new type of products or services, the Responsible Game Committee will examine the risks on the basis of international standards. The same applies to the online scratch games of the National Lottery. These are primarily recreational games, the risks of which are not much higher than traditional lottery games. It is important that the National Lottery offers all its games within a framework that aims to protect players from excessive play. For example, the games of the National Lottery are subject to specific playing limits. These are much stricter than the gaming limits that gaming operators have to apply. I shall then come to the second part of your second question. The Responsible Game Committee bases its evaluation on international standards Serenigame and ASTERIG. The Committee analyses and estimates risk factors in a quasi mathematical way. The opinions of the Responsible Game Committee in specific files are confidential. However, the National Lottery is prepared to provide you with all further details about its policy on responsible play. As regards the third part of your second question, all the opinions of the Council of State are available on the website of this institution. The general rules and the form of the various lottery games are laid down by royal decree. These decisions are not submitted to the Council of Ministers because the lottery law does not require them. As for your third question, the National Lottery cannot address young people in its advertising messages. It uses a very strict advertising code which is controlled by the Jury for Ethics in advertising. If the Jury considers that a particular campaign would not comply with the advertising code, action will be taken immediately and that campaign will be modified. As regards the specific issue of CA$H, the Jury considered that this advertising campaign did not violate the advertising code. The National Lottery is also present at festivals and other events. However, this does not mean that it targets young people. She's there to support the reputation of her brands. As far as your final question is concerned, a clear distinction must be made between sports betting and sponsorship of sports clubs and the usual publicity for lottery products and sports clubs. As included in the Code of Ethical and Responsible Advertising of the National Lottery, the National Lottery has explicitly committed itself to complying with the European Lottery Association's sports sponsorship rules in order to avoid major conflicts in the context of a specific relationship with a sports club. With regard to sports sponsorship contracts, the National Lottery refrains from intervening in any decision that might affect a sports result. The National Lottery, which is also a member of the National Platform to combat the manipulation of sporting events, takes all necessary measures to combat the manipulation of sporting events. Moreover, the National Lottery does not sponsor sports teams under its working name for sports betting SCOOORE! So under no circumstances will you see an offer on sports betting in the domain of cycling according to UCI standards. However, under the working name of its traditional lottery products, the National Lottery supports several initiatives, for example with regard to the Olympic Games, international tournaments, federal sports federations and training programmes for athletes. These initiatives would probably not be able to take place without this support. However, the National Lottery acts here with brands and products that are by no means predominantly, do not create an illusion of influence or match fixing and rather carry a normal publicity campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u15	Mr President, Minister, we always hear the same thing. The National Lottery always says that it is the right player and that what it offers is safe and good. She also says she's worried about the player and makes sure he can't be addicted to gambling. According to her, all the others are bad, the private players. I will certainly not deny that the National Lottery is probably more ethical than the private players, but we must not deny that the National Lottery is also participating in this evolution, is offering more and more digital products and is starting to offer a number of products that are also offered on the private market. That is why I was interested in the risk assessment of the experts of the Responsible Game Committee. You say that this information is confidential, and that is a pity. I wonder on the basis of what legal provision these data are confidential and to what extent the rules of public access to management do not apply here. This must be explicitly justified on the basis of the law on public access to administration. I will perhaps ask a new question about this in order to know what the legal argument is for not making the risk assessments available. It is true that the opinions of the Council of State are public, but I did not know that this was true for such decisions and documents. So I'll look them up on the Council of State website. Finally, as far as the sports sponsorship is concerned, I am certainly not accusing the National Lottery of match fixing, far from it. We must act against that. What bothers me, however, is that Jannie Haek in newspaper interviews once again fulminates against the private sector, he says that it is not possible to gamble through gambling companies on the same football teams sponsored by those gambling companies while the National Lottery itself does so. She also sponsors certain football teams, under whatever name, while one can also gamble on those teams on the website of the National Lottery, just like with the private players. To be honest, I thought it was a little hypocritical to make such an attack. It would be better to put one's hand in one's own bosom. We must not forget that the problem of gambling is very serious: it concerns 350 000 people who are currently excluded. In another committee we are going to have in-depth debates on a tightening of gambling legislation, but the National Lottery must also pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u16	Mr Van Hecke, may I ask you to keep your reply shorter? You know the rules. This is a good exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u17	Minister, the National Lottery likes to present itself as a socially responsible company. For example, Mr Jannie Haek recently stated in the media that in his view the National Lottery does not contribute to the problem of gambling addiction. However, a new report by VAD, the Flemish expertise centre for alcohol, illegal drugs, psychoactive medication, gambling and gaming, questions that statement. After all, his research shows that the games of the National Lottery are well established at a young age. The most worrying thing is that 27% of 12- to 14-year-olds have already played with scratch notes. However, that is prohibited under 18 years. Mr Minister, first of all, the games of the National Lottery are not subject to scrutiny by the Gaming Commission. How is the monitoring of compliance with, among other things, the age ban being carried out today? Secondly, would you consider having the control of the National Lottery also carried out in the future by the Gaming Commission, which also controls the private players? If so, what steps should be taken? If no, why not? Thirdly, Article 22 of the management contract provides that the National Lottery may withdraw the rights of a point of sale when selling to minors. How often has sales to minors been detected in recent years and by whom? How often was a sanction imposed afterwards? What sanctions were those? How often did the National Lottery withdraw the rights of a point of sale? Fourthly, Article 59 of the Management Agreement provides that the National Lottery shall have a quality control carried out annually by an independent body. What do the latest five reports say about selling to minors? According to her website, the National Lottery carries out checks with so-called mystery shoppers. What exactly does these controls entail? How often have mystery shoppers carried out checks over the past five years, and with what result? Finally, what steps do you intend to take to reduce the prevalence of the use of scratch cards and products from the National Lottery among young people?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u18	Mr Van Hecke, in order to answer your first two questions, it is necessary first of all to clarify that the National Lottery is indeed subject to control by the Gaming Commission, in so far as the games are covered by the Gaming Act of 7 May 1999. For the National Lottery this is about the sports betting that are marketed under the brand name SCOOORE! However, in terms of turnover, that activity is marginal. As far as the lottery products of the National Lottery are concerned, the legislator has decided to exploit them through State monopolies. The explicit intention of the legislator was to offer an alternative game of chance that is less risky to start with and that falls within a stricter regulated framework. It is my belief that the channeling of players towards more responsible lottery games is better suited to our desire to protect the population from gambling addiction. For example, the National Lottery is subject to an identity and age check through the National Register for its Internet sales by its custody authority. That control was only introduced a few months ago for the more risky games of chance. As far as physical outlets are concerned, the National Lottery organises more than 1,600 checks per year on sales to minors. Infringements detected are systematically fined and can quickly reach EUR 500. I have no knowledge of similar controls organized by the Gaming Commission for the private operators. More generally, I would like to stress that the National Lottery must apply stricter rules in terms of, among other things, responsible play, player protection, advertising, playing limits and player identification than those applicable to private gambling providers under the control of the Gaming Commission. Subjecting the National Lottery to the supervision of the Gaming Commission would not be a step forward, rather a step backwards. It is, of course, impossible to provide statistics on sales to minors. After all, that is forbidden. The only element on which we can base ourselves is the cases of infringements through mystery shoppers and controls organized by the National Lottery. Between 2015 and 2019, 8,003 checks were carried out; 1,207 outlets or 15% sold a lottery product to a minor mystery shopper. Any infringement shall be punishable by a fine commensurate with the average weekly turnover of the point of sale concerned and the infringement history of that point of sale. An initial penalty shall be imposed at a rate of 10%. For each subsequent additional infringement, that percentage shall be increased by 10 percentage points. So far, the National Lottery has never had to withdraw sales rights. It goes without saying that such a sanction could have very serious consequences for the point of sale in question and could even lead to the bankruptcy of a point of sale. Such a sanction therefore seems more appropriate if there is bad faith or serious recidivism. Since 2010, the National Lottery has the certificate Responsible Games of the European lottery organisation. She obtained this after an external audit which also concerns the awareness raising of staff and sales outlets. The certificate is valid for 3 years and was renewed in 2013, 2016 and 2019 after an external audit. Mid-term audits shall also be carried out. The National Lottery reports annually on the policy of responsible play. Those reports shall cover the awareness-raising sessions organised for staff and the awareness-raising actions organised at the points of sale. In addition, the reports contain a detailed analysis of the results of mystery shoppers' actions. Each check shall be carried out in accordance with fixed scenarios. First, a minor mystery shopper will enter a point of sale and ask the seller for a lottery product. If the seller does not ask for the age of the minor and sells a lottery product, a multi-year-old mystery shopper will immediately confront the seller and prepare a report. The study of the VAD, the expertise centre for alcohol, drugs and gambling, shows that lottery products pose less risk of problematic play behaviour. The VAD report also contains 62 pages, of which 4 relate to games of chance, including the National Lottery. That is why I call for the National Lottery to continue investing in awareness raising at points of sale and players, as well as in the organisation of mystery shopping. It is important to have a policy of developing player and consumer protection based on the risk analysis of the different forms of play.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u19	Minister, that was once again a very long and comprehensive answer. I now give the floor to Mr Van Hecke for a brief reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u20	Mr President, it will be a very brief reply. Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I have another question about the infringements. You said that between 2015 and 2019 there were 8.003 checks in 1,207 outlets, but how many infringements were detected?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u21	A thousand two hundred and seven contacts proved problematic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u22	I understood 1,207 outlets, but it's 1,207 infringements that were detected during the checks?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u23	Between 2015 and 2019, 8,003 controls were carried out and 1,207 outlets sold at least one lottery product to minor mystery customers. But maybe there were several at the same point of sale.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u24	It is therefore concluded that 1,207 outlets infringed the law, but there may be several infringements per point of sale.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u25	It can be said that there are 15% infringements compared to the products sold.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u26	That seems very serious to me. I think that the National Lottery should draw conclusions from this and take sanctions for the outlets.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u27	Mr. Secretary, work is being done on the rooftops at the Jubelparksite, which would last about three years. This means, among other things, that the parkings are closed. This obviously has an impact on the accessibility of the site. What is the expected impact of the works on the museums at the Cinquantenaire Park in terms of visitor numbers and revenues and therefore on the budget of the institutions? How many visitors on average use the car to visit the Cinquantenaires website? Are alternative parking spaces provided? What impact does this have on the locals? If applicable, how did cooperation with the Brussels Region and the city of Brussels go? How are people encouraged to use alternative means of transport to reach the site? How will visitors be informed about the inaccessibility of the parking facilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u28	Mrs Gijbels, first of all, it goes without saying that removing the parking in the first phase has an impact on the choice of museums for Belgian citizens. Disabled visitors and school groups with a private bus will continue to have the same access. However, the individual visitor can no longer drive up the site by car. In the early stages of the works, the CMKG faced a number of complaints via various online and offline channels. Since the site has only been closed since January 15, it is still too early to assess the impact and whether there will be a permanent decrease in the number of visitors. Secondly, besides the staff and the volunteers, a lot of visitors also come by car. According to our estimates, one fifth of visitors, staff and volunteers are not included. Thirdly, the SMKG states that there has been no consultation between them and the Brussels Region and the city of Brussels with regard to the adjustment of the parking in the Cinquantenaire Park. The SMKG has not been able to put the problem of the accessibility of the site on the table by public transport. Moreover, the management of the buildings and the Cinquantenaire Park falls within the competence of the Directorate of Buildings. Fourthly, on the website of the KMKG, more specifically on the page of the Museum of Art & History, the information concerning the closed park is mentioned. The Director of Buildings ensured uniform communication for all museums of the Cinquantenaire Park: the Museum of Art & History, the Army Museum and Autoworld. In addition, we strongly recommend that visitors arrive by public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u29	Minister, you indicated yourself, there will probably be an impact on visitor numbers, especially if accompanying measures are not taken. That's very important. We must not lose sight of the profitability of a public institution. There is a need to make greater use of public transport. I would urge that this be done. The use of alternative means of transport such as bicycles and other parking spaces should also be encouraged. This needs to be addressed. After all, it is an important task of museums to actively attract visitors and to open up to the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u30	Mr President, I was a little surprised that this question was not linked to Mr Van Hecke's question, because the subject overlaps to a large extent. In the worst case scenario, the Minister has to rename some of the facts, which could lead to a slightly longer reply. Minister, the results of student interviews involving 34,000 pupils from 62 different schools show that almost a third of the Flemish young people under 18 years of age questioned have ever bought a scratch lottery ticket. Not even a fifth of them ever played the lottery. When we extrapolate that on the total number of underage students in Flemish education, that amounts to 122,000 underage students who once bought a scratch note and an estimated 70,000 underage students who once played the lotto. The last year a little 25,000 according to that research in Flanders would still have played the lotto. Mr Minister, first of all, is the National Lottery aware of these high figures and of the large-scale sale to underage customers, in spite of the law and the management contract? Secondly, where do you think the loopholes are? Are the rules bypassed in physical sales or are they done online, via the vending machines or in any other way? Thirdly, what measures does the National Lottery take to prevent this? Fourthly, how many controls have been carried out in recent years in the fight against the sale to minors? How many findings were made? Fifthly, how many outlets have lost their contracts in recent years as a result of findings of sales to minors? Sixth, how do they relate to the suspected sale to minors by private gambling providers? Seventh, do you consider it necessary, as the overseeing minister, for additional measures to be taken to prevent or control?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u31	Firstly, I would like to stress the importance of correcting the figures of the VAD. Following the study of the VAD, some newspaper headlines were published: "one in five fourteen-year-olds has already played lotto." In reality, the report states that the figure is 15%. In any case, the National Lottery is very vigilant about the fact that its products are not sold to minors. Secondly, the National Lottery is making all the necessary efforts to prevent the sale to minors. For example, the National Lottery on its internet sales is subject to an identity and age check via the National Register. The system was introduced reluctantly a few months ago by the Gaming Commission for the more risky games of chance. The National Lottery also equipped all its automatic banknote distributors with an ID card reader, so that minors can't buy lottery products via that channel. The National Lottery sells its most essential products through a network of more than 7,000 independent outlets. As provided for in the management contract, it has contractual agreements with its outlets, which state that if a player does not want to prove his age in the event of doubt, no lottery product may be sold. You understand that the National Lottery here depends on the cooperation of its outlets. Thirdly, the National Lottery places great emphasis on the awareness of players and employees at the points of sale. New employees at the points of sale must receive compulsory training, with explicit reference to the problem of selling to minors. All points of sale shall also be regularly monitored for the presence of awareness-raising material in order to make clear the prohibition of the sale to minors. Each trimester, 400 outlets of the National Lottery are controlled by mystery shoppers. Any infringement shall be punishable by a fine based on the average weekly turnover of the point of sale and the infringement history of the same point of sale. The first penalty shall be subject to a penalty of 10%. For each successive additional infringement, that percentage shall be increased by 10 percentage points. These are considerable fines, which have a deterrent effect. Fourthly, 1 600 checks are carried out every year. During the period from 2015 to 2019 there were 8,003 controls, with 1,207 infringements detected. In the same period, this amounts to an average infringement rate of 15%, with minimums of about 13 % and maximums of 17 %, depending on the regional hubs. However, no figures are kept on the age of the mystery shoppers. I have figures for every regional hub, which I will make available to you. Fifthly, so far the National Lottery has not had to withdraw sales rights for selling to minors. It goes without saying that such a sanction has very serious consequences for the point of sale in question and may even lead to the bankruptcy of a point of sale. Such a sanction therefore seems more appropriate if there is bad faith or serious recidivism. Nevertheless, a violation is not without consequence. During the period from 2015 to 2019, the total number of financial sanctions amounted to 286,000 euros. I can give you those figures every year. Sixthly, you should also question the Minister of Justice about this. There are few public figures available about the private gaming providers. The Annual Report of the Gaming Commission for 2018 clarifies that 63 checks were carried out at daily dealers in one year. The National Lottery thus controlled 25 times more daily shops than the Gaming Commission. In any event, the study of the VAD shows that lottery products pose less risk of problematic game behaviour and that sports betting is more addictive and therefore more risky. The fact that games of chance such as sports betting and bingo create a higher risk of addiction among young people than lottery games justifies the fact that games of chance should be subject to much stricter rules. I would argue that the National Lottery should continue to invest in raising awareness at the points of sale and of the players, as well as in organising mystery shoppers' actions and pursue a policy of developing protection for the players based on the risk analysis of the various types of game. If that's what you want, I can get you the two tables.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for the comprehensive answer. I find the number of checks at the private gambling market striking. There were only 63 checks for the entire market in a whole year. That is worrying, and I will ask your colleague responsible for Justice about that. Thank you for the figures and I understand that I can get more information from your staff. If I compare the figures with the figures I received in response to my written question No. 40, I notice that the number of checks has remained stable over the years. You say there are 1,600 a year. However, the number of fines collected is falling. Nevertheless, the Lottery plans to open 700 new outlets. We also see that in the period from 2015 to 2019, the number of observed offences involving minors increased year after year. Today, that figure is 30% higher than 5 years ago. That's a little troubling, isn't it? Not only in the private gambling market but also at the National Lottery itself there is still far too much sale to minors. As the volume increases, the number of points of sale increases and the number of checks remains the same, the fines fall. I find that worrying. I think it is necessary to increase the controls. At least the number of checks should be kept up to date with the number of points of sale. If not, there is less control in practice, which I do not think is the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u33	Minister, my colleagues in the previous legislature, including Benoit Hellings and Véronique Waterschoot, have been quite active with your predecessors to take action to begin a meaningful work of memory about our colonial past. Indeed, we are in favour of remembering the structural phenomena linked to colonialism at all levels of our society from the point of view of economic, social and cultural activities. In this context, we believe it is essential to look at the collections of our museums. In March 2018, journalist Michel Bouffioux highlighted the presence of human remains in the collections of our federal scientific institutions. In addition, the collections of our museums are also made up of cultural and cult works acquired by theft in a colonial context. Reflecting on the return of these parts of our collections seems to involve looking at the legal notion of inalienability of collections, a legal concept that would be a barrier to restitution. It is precisely from the perspective of a reflection aimed at changing the legal framework in the sense that Zuhal Demir, then Secretary of State for Scientific Policy, had set up a working group on the restitution of human remains. Minister, where are we in the inventory work of our collections and in the documentation of the origins of the acquisitions of works? What is the status of the Zuhal Demir working group? What are the members? Are early conclusions already available? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u34	Each federal scientific institution is responsible for maintaining the inventory of public collections entrusted to it. Depending on the period during which the acquisitions were made, the inventory records may contain more or less detailed source information. As collections are digitized, these inventories become available online for the general public. Following the departure of the Secretary of State for Science Policy, in February 2019 the Minister responsible for Science Policy brought together representatives of the federal administration, science policy and scientific institutions concerned with the presence of human remains in the collections for which they are responsible. The meeting agreed on a scientific and legal approach to this sensitive issue, full of legitimate emotions and symbols. When requests for restitution of human remains arise, their examination must focus on the legitimacy of the applicant to obtain restitution. In the event of recognition of the legitimacy of the request, a study on the provenance of human remains should be carried out with complete objectivity and independence, in accordance with good practices in scientific research.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u35	Minister, thank you for these answers. I shall make two or three points. Of course, it is the responsibility of museums to make their inventory. Attention was paid to the colossal work done at the Tervuren Museum, which is probably the most important museum on these issues. This is an interesting and participatory work. We know it's going well, but the work is still very long. I therefore believe that political guidelines could encourage, support or even facilitate the work of our museums, if we have an important political mark on these issues. And that is what we hope to have from our government today. I also understand that the working group met in February 2019. It would be interesting to have a slightly more structured feedback on the status of this working group. I understand that it is a question of the legitimacy of the applicant. We're talking about human remains here. In some places, we even have human scalps coming from other regions. If it is relevant to question the legitimacy of the applicants, what about our legitimacy of having human remains that have been taken on colonial land? It is indeed becoming complicated to question the legitimacy of the applicants without questioning ours. This working group must move very quickly on these issues, because at one point it will be necessary to answer the legitimate questions of the peoples asking for the return of their remains. I hope, Minister, that you will continue to support this working group in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u36	Question No 55003175C by Mrs Jadin is transformed into a written question, as is Question No 55003462C by Mrs Pas.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u37	Mr President, Minister, the 2018 Annual Report of the National Lottery mentions a remarkable phenomenon. Since 2005, the turnover of the National Lottery has increased annually by more than 1%. At the same time, since 2014, subsidies from the National Lottery have fallen year after year, each by about 1%. This decrease is stronger than the requirements of Article 62a of the Special Financing Act. There is a reduction in the fixed amount to be paid to the Communities of 0.84% per year. In this context, I also refer to Article 44 of the management contract, where the subsidy amount is set at EUR 185 million annually, while we note that this amount has fallen in recent years. How do you justify the derogation from the Special Financing Act? Why is that law not being observed? How do you intend to rectify that situation? How do you justify the derogation from the management contract? What will you do about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u38	The National Lottery grants amounted to EUR 205 million, both in 2014 and 2015. When approving the management contract between the State and the National Lottery in 2016, the annual amount of the grants was set at 185 million euros. This amount shall be committed for the entire period covered by the management contract. That is, for a period of 5 years between 2016 and 2021. The text of the management contract states that this amount is not indexed. In accordance with Article 62a of the Special Financing Act of 16 January 1989, the amount of the grants granted to the Communities corresponds to 27% of the 185 million set out in the management contract. That's 50 million. This is the amount since the approval of the management contract in 2016. The share going to the German-speaking Community is equal to 0.18 % of this amount, or 428,000 euros. It is deducted for the distributions between the Flemish and French Communities. The FPS Finance annually draws up the keys between the two Communities and the National Lottery. This key consists of two parameters, namely the allocated part of the value added tax revenue and the allocated part of the income from the personal income tax. On the basis of the tax information, therefore, there is a change in the amount of the grants to the two Communities. The division between the Communities is therefore in accordance with factors independent of the will of the National Lottery or Government. The distribution of the amounts of grants between the Communities for the financial years 2020 and 2021 will be determined on the basis of the distribution key calculated by the FPS Finances. For the year 2019, I refer you to the Royal Decree of 23 May 2019 determining the provisional distribution plan of the National Lottery grants for the year 2019, in which you will find the amounts provided for each Community.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u39	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the presentation. However, I do not understand why these derogations are coming from. You say that the subsidy amount in management contracts is set at EUR 185 million per year for the duration of the management contract, until 2021, without indexation. In practice, however, we see that this figure is already lower. Could you go into that and clarify exactly what is going on?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u40	I can't give you more explanations than I gave you, but I can tell you later what is causing you problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u41	It is a pity that there is no clarification on this, but perhaps it could be food for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u42	Mr Minister, since the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Commission has and is implementing space competences. Examples are the Copernicus programme or the Galileo satellite navigation programme. The research programme of Horizon 2020 and Horizon Europe also includes a large part of the space budget. We ourselves also have a space programme under the Science Policy PPS. The federal space budget is managed by BELSPO through ESA projects. Some of these projects are GSTP, ARTES and PRODEX. Through these projects, the aim is to promote return for the countries. Quite a bit of budget would end up with the FWI of Uccle through these projects. In addition, it is not clear how the contacts between our space service and the European Commission are currently taking place. In addition, in determining the new space budget, a preliminaries were made on the decisions of the new legislature. An additional EUR 250 million was provided for, which remains to be confirmed by the new government. Firstly, how is contact between the European Commission and the representation of the Space Service at the European Commission organised? Secondly, how large is the Flemish return of the PRODEX programme from 1 January 2015 to the latest data made available by ESA? How big is the Walloon return in the same period? Thirdly, how are the Flemish and Walloon returns balanced? Fourthly, what action will you take to prevent Ukkel's FWI from being allocated too much of the GSTP, ARTES and especially PRODEX budgets? How will you resolve this conflict of interest?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u43	Ms Gijbels, the thematic experts of the Space Service of the Federal Scientific Policy are present in the various consultation groups and committees of the European Commission, which are related to their respective experience, in particular GNSS, Galileo, Copernicus, GOVSATCOM, Space Situational Awareness & Security, the Programme Committee of the European Framework Programme Horizon 2020 and the future Horizon Europe as well as the more general committees, such as the Space Policy Expert Group, which cover the thematic committees. As all official contacts take place through the Belgian Permanent Representation to the European Union, there is a strong interaction between my services and the latter. The most recent statistics cover the period from 1 January 2015 to 30 September 2019. For PRODEX, 32 % of the return goes to the federal entity and 68 % goes to the regional entities. Of that 68 %, 28 % goes to Flemish entities and 72 % to the other regional entities. The current distribution within PRODEX is offset by the distribution within GSTP 76 % Flanders, 4 % Brussels, 18 % Wallonia and 1 % federal entities. In addition, there are specific initiatives, such as the ALTIUS mission with QinetiQ Space and OIP as main contractors, which were launched in 2016 for the benefit of Flanders to compensate for previous investments in launchers, which mainly generate contracts in Brussels and Wallonia. The intra-Belgian return is counted at the level of the entire Belgian return from ESA. In recent years, the Flemish return went up in a structural way because of the development of the new space companies in Flanders. No special action is planned today. The FWIs are users of the PRODEX program and to a very limited extent of the GSTP program, not of ARTES that only concerns the area of telecoms, at the same level as all other stakeholders. The support provided by the ESA programme by PRODEX is related to the scientific projects selected by peer reviews in the framework of ESA scientific programmes. The Uccle FSIs have a very broad experience with ESA projects and are regularly selected as principal investigator of scientific instrumentation on board ESA missions. There is no reason to limit this success.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You know that questions are asked here and there about the return to Flanders. It would be nice if we could get the numbers. It's going up, you say. Are there exact figures? How else can you know it's going to go up if there's only federal figures available?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u45	I received the question yesterday, and today I forwarded to you all the figures that I have at my disposal. I have no other elements, but we have nevertheless made available to you a whole series of program-by-program figures. In one day, we didn't have time to do more.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u46	Mr President, Minister, should I put another question? How can I get those numbers? After all, I asked once before, and apparently the figures were not there either.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-03-10-55-commissie-ic130x.u47	I gave you the numbers I had yesterday. I couldn't find more in a day, but I invite you to ask a new question.
