ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 September 2020, you have received a proposal to amend the agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 30 September 2020, you received a proposal to amend the agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u3	Article 50 of the Constitution provides that "the member of one of the two Chambers, appointed by the King as Minister and accepting him, shall cease to sit and resume his term of office when he has been terminated by the King as Minister". Article 50 of the Constitution states that "A member of one of the two chambers appointed by the King as Minister and appointing him shall hold his office and resume his term of office when the King has ceased his office as Minister." Mr. Daniel Bacquelaine had resigned as Minister of Pensions, and he resumed his parliamentary term and Mr. Mathieu Bihet, who had been allowed to sit as an effective member of the House in place of Mr. Daniel Bacquelaine, ceased to sit and again became the first alternate in the electoral district of the province of Liège. Since Mr Daniel Bacquelaine resigned from his duties as Minister of Pensions, he resumed his parliamentary mandate. Mr Mathieu Bihet, who is a member of the Chamber in place of Mr Daniel Bacquelaine for the duration of his term of office, will sit and will be the first successor to Liège's constituency. I would like to thank Mr. Mathieu Bihet. I thank Mr Mathieu Bihet. Having resigned as Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence, Mr. Philippe Goffin resumed his parliamentary term and Ms. Magali Dock, who had been admitted to serve as an effective member of the House in place of Mr. Philippe Goffin, ceased to sit and became second deputy in the electoral district of the province of Liège. As Mr Philippe Goffin resigned from his duties as Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence, he resumed his parliamentary mandate. Mrs Magali Dock, who is a member of the Chamber in place of Mr Philippe Goffin for the duration of his term of office, will hold office and will be the second successor to the Liège constituency. I would like to thank Mrs Magali Dock. I thank Mrs Magali Dock. Ms Maggie De Block resigned from her post as Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health, and from Asylum and Migration, she resumed her parliamentary term and Mr Bram Delvaux, who had been admitted to serve as an effective member of the Chamber in place of Mrs Maggie De Block for the duration of her ministerial office, ceased to serve and again became the first alternate in the constituency of Flemish Brabant. As Ms Maggie De Block has resigned from her office as Minister of Social Affairs and Health, and Asylum and Migration, she resumes her parliamentary mandate. Mr Bram Delvaux, who is a member of the Chamber in place of Mrs Maggie De Bock as long as she is in office, is in office and will again be the first successor to the Flemish-Brabant constituency. I would like to thank Mr Bram Delvaux. I thank Mr Bram Delvaux. Mr. Denis Ducrame, who had resigned as Minister of the Middle Classes, Independents, SMEs, Agriculture, and Social Integration, in charge of the Big Cities, resumed his parliamentary mandate and Mr. Benoît Friart, who had been admitted to sit as an effective member of the House in place of Mr. Denis Ducrame for the duration of his ministerial duties, ceased to sit and re-appointed as the first alternate in the electoral district of the province of Hainaut. As Mr Denis Ducarme resigned from his post as Minister for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Self-employed, SMEs, Agriculture, and Social Integration, with responsibility for Large Cities, he resumed his parliamentary mandate. Mr Benoît Friart, acting as a member of the Chamber in place of Mr Denis Ducarme, held office for the duration of his term of office, and became the first successor to the Hainaut constituency. I would like to thank Mr. Benoît Friart. I thank Mr Benoît Friart. Mr. Koen Geens, having resigned as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Justice, in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, and Minister for European Affairs, resumed his parliamentary term and Mr. Sammy Mahdi, who had been admitted to sit as an effective member of the Chamber in place of Mr. Koen Geens for the duration of his ministerial office, ceased to sit and again became the first alternate in the electoral district of Flemish Brabant. Since Mr Koen Geen has resigned from his duties as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Justice, with responsibility for the Directorate of Buildings, and Minister for European Affairs, he resumes his parliamentary mandate. Mr Sammy Mahdi, who sits as a member of the Chamber in place of Mr Koen Nonees as long as his office lasts, holds office and is again the first successor to the Flemish-Brabant constituency. I would like to thank Mr. Sammy Mahdi. I thank Mr Sammy Mahdi. Ms. Marie-Christine Marghem resigned as Minister of Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development and resumed her parliamentary term and Ms. Isabelle Galant, who was allowed to sit as an effective member of the House in place of Ms. Marie-Christine Marghem for the duration of her ministerial office, ceased to sit and became second deputy in the electoral district of the province of Hainaut. As Ms Marie-Christine Marghem resigned from her post as Minister of Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development, she resumed her parliamentary mandate. Ms Isabelle Galant, who is a member of the Chamber in place of Ms Marie-Christine Marghem for the duration of her term of office, will hold office and will again be the second successor to the Hainaut constituency. I would like to thank Mrs Isabelle Galant. I thank Mrs Isabelle Galant. Ms Nathalie Muylle, who had resigned from her post as Minister of Employment, Economy and Consumers, in charge of the fight against poverty, equality of opportunity and persons with disabilities, resumed her parliamentary mandate and Ms Bercy Slegers, who had been admitted to sit as an effective member of the Chamber in place of Ms Nathalie Muylle for the duration of her ministerial duties, ceased to sit and became second deputy in the electoral district of the province of Hainaut. As Ms Nathalie Muylle resigned from her duties as Minister for Employment, Economics and Consumers in charge of Combating Poverty, Equal Opportunities and Persons with Disabilities, she resumed her parliamentary mandate. Ms Bercy Slegers, who was a member of the Chamber in place of Ms Nathalie Muylle, held office for the duration of her term of office, and was re-inherited as second successor to the Hainaut constituency. I would like to thank Mrs Bercy Slegers. I thank Mrs Bercy Slegers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u4	Article 50 of the Constitution provides that "the member of one of the two Chambers, appointed by the King as Minister and accepting him, shall cease to sit and resume his term of office when he has been terminated by the King as Minister". Article 50 of the Constitution states that "A member of one of the two chambers appointed by the King as Minister and appointing him shall hold his office and resume his term of office when the King has ceased his office as Minister." Article 1bis of the Act of 6 August 1931 establishing incompatibilities and prohibitions concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as members and former members of the Legislative Chambers provides that the member of the House of Representatives who ceases to sit as a result of his appointment as Minister or Secretary of State of the Federal Government or as a result of his election as Minister or Secretary of State of a Regional or Community Government shall be replaced by the first alternate in good order of the list on which he was elected. Article 1a of the Law of 6 August 1931 determining the incomparencies and disqualifications concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, and the members and former members of the Legislative Chambers provides that a member of the Chamber of Representatives who ceases to sit as a result of his appointment as Minister or State Secretary of the Federal Government or his election as Minister or State Secretary of a Regional or Community Government shall be replaced by the first eligible successor to the list on which he was elected. We must therefore take the admission and swearing-in of these alternates. We must therefore proceed with the admission and swearing-in of those successors. These are the following alternates: - Ms Cécile Cornet, alternate of the ECOLO list of the electoral district of the province of Namur, replacing Mr Georges Gilkinet, - Mr Guillaume Defossé, alternate of the ECOLO list for the electoral district of Brussels-Capital, replacing Mrs Tinne Van der Straeten, - Ms Claire Hugon, alternate of the ECOLO list of the electoral district of Brussels-Capital, replacing Ms Zakia Khattabi, - Ms Leslie Leoni, deputy of the PS list of the electoral district of the province of Hainaut, replacing Ms Ludivine Dedonder, - Mr Bert Moyaers, alternate of the sp.a list of the electoral district of Limburg, replacing Mrs Meryame Kitir, - Mr Nicolas Parent, alternate of the ECOLO list for the electoral district of the province of Liège, replacing Mrs Sarah Schlitz, - Mr Jasper Pillen, alternate of the Open Vld list of the electoral district of West Flanders, replacing Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne. These are: - Ms Cécile Cornet, successor to the ECOLO list of the Namur constituency, in place of Mr Georges Gilkinet, - Mr Guillaume Defossé, successor to the ECOLO list of the Brussels-Capital constituency, in place of Mrs Tinne Van der Straeten, - Ms Claire Hugon, successor to the ECOLO list of the Brussels-Capital constituency, in place of Mrs Zakia Khattabi, - Ms Leslie Leoni, successor to the PS list of the Hainaut constituency, in place of Mrs Ludivine Dedonder, - Mr Bert Moyaers, successor to the Limburg constituency's sp.a list, in place of Mrs Meryame Kitrir, - Mr Nicolas Parent, successor to the ECOLO list of the Liège constituency, in place of Mrs Sarah Schlitz, - Mr Jasper Pillen, successor to the Open Vld list of the West Flanders constituency, in place of Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne. The credentials of these alternates were validated in our meeting on June 20, 2019. The credentials of these successors were declared valid at our meeting of 20 June 2019. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of these substitutes to serve as a member of the House of Representatives in place of the members appointed by the King as ministers or secretaries of State and during their term of office. I therefore propose that these successors be allowed to sit as members of the Chamber of Representatives in place of the members appointed by the King as minister or secretary of state and for as long as the term of office of the President of Parliament lasts. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I would point out that the members elected by the electoral colleges in the French-speaking region are members of the French linguistic group and the members elected by the electoral colleges in the Dutch-speaking region are members of the Dutch linguistic group. I would remind you that the members chosen by the electoral colleges belonging to the French language area are part of the French language group and that the members chosen by the electoral colleges belonging to the Dutch language area are part of the Dutch language group. I would point out that the Members elected by the electoral college of the arrondissement of Brussels are members of either the French linguistic group or the Dutch linguistic group of the Chamber, depending on whether they take an oath in French or Dutch. If the oath is taken in several languages, the one used in the first place is decisive. I would remind you that the elected representatives of the people of the Brussels district are part of the Dutch or French language group of the Chamber, depending on whether they take the oath in Dutch or in French. If the oath is taken in several languages, the language in which it was first taken is decisive. Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mrs Cécile Cornet to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mrs Cécile Cornet to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u5	Ms. Cécile Cornet will be a member of the French language group. Mrs Cécile Cornet will be part of the French language group. I ask Mr. Guillaume Defossé to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Guillaume Defossé to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u6	Mr. Guillaume Defossé will be part of the French linguistic group. Mr Guillaume Defossé will be part of the French language group. I ask Ms. Claire Hugon to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mrs Claire Hugon to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u7	Claire Hugon will be a member of the French linguistic group. Mrs Claire Hugon will be part of the French language group. I ask Mrs Leslie Leoni to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mrs Leslie Leoni to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u8	Leslie Leoni will be a member of the French language group. Mrs Leslie Leoni will be part of the French language group. I ask Mr. Bert Moyaers to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Bert Moyaers to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u9	Mr Bert Moyaers will be a member of the Dutch language group. Mr Bert Moyaers will be part of the Dutch language group. I ask Mr. Nicolas Parent to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Nicolas Parent to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u10	Mr. Nicolas Parent will be a member of the French linguistic group. Mr Nicolas Parent will be part of the French language group. I ask Mr. Jasper Pillen to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Jasper Pillen to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u11	Mr. Jasper Pillen will be a member of the Dutch language group. Mr Jasper Pillen will be part of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u12	The next item is the government statement. The next item is the government statement. The Prime Minister has the floor. I call the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this government is starting at a time when our country is dealing with the worst crisis ever in peacetime. Many countrymen are going through a particularly difficult period. Because they're sick because they've lost someone dear, or because they've been in the line of fire for months as a caregiver. But the damage to the virus isn't just medical. Our society and our economy are also under considerable pressure. This pandemic is gonna chop right into it. Stronger than the financial crisis ten years ago. And even deeper than the Great Depression of the 1930s. Never before have so many people in our country temporarily lost their jobs. Never before did so many companies, so many self-employed people have to close their doors. The depth of the crisis, it is unseen. The threat of a new infection wave and the uncertainty about a working vaccine cast a lasting shadow over our recovery. We're gonna have to live with the corona virus for some time. The government will do everything possible to prevent outbreaks quickly and locally. For I say quite clearly here: our country, our economy, our companies, they cannot cope with a new overall lockdown. [[Mr Servais Verherstraeten applauds]] Mr Verherstraeten, next time you must be more convincing. That is why we are going to test more, we are going to invest more in protective equipment and in the development of vaccines, in close cooperation with the Länder. But I would like to appeal here to this rostrum to each and every one of us in our country. We can only defeat the coronavirus if we all respect a number of very simple rules: keeping our distance, washing our hands, wearing a mask, but above all, caring for others, especially our most fragile, vulnerable relatives, our parents and grandparents. This concern for the well-being of others is also central to the government agreement that is presented here today before the House. This government invests heavily in health care based on the decisions of this chamber: we ensure that there are more staff at the patient's bedside; a less burdensome workload; better working conditions; and training for health care workers. Besides health, we also invest in pensions. We raise the minimum pension towards 1,500 euros. And we are gradually bringing together the three systems of employees, civil servants and the self-employed. There's going to be a new pension bonus, and we're definitely going for a second pension pillar for everyone. Because whoever has worked his life deserves a decent pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u14	With regard to poverty, the fight against social exclusion will be given new means. To bridge the digital divide, we are reforming social telecommunications tariffs. For everyone to have the opportunity to participate in the digital society. This government is fighting all forms of discrimination. Especially those against women. We are gradually increasing birth leave to 20 days, to further promote equality between women and men. Because it's a woman's century. And it is precisely for this reason that this government has a gender balance. This is a historic step for our country. Because diversity is stronger! If you want to be social, you have to build prosperity. Therefore, job creation is an absolute priority of this government. The more people work, the stronger our social security. Moreover, a job is the best social protection and an important source of emancipation. The government will therefore reward works. Guide the most vulnerable groups on the way to work. And strive for an efficiency level of 80% by 2030. The government is giving the social dialogue a new impetus. We are giving the social partners a reasonable time to reach agreements on their own. The government determines the budgetary framework and the political orientations. In the coming years, we will also be giving entrepreneurship every opportunity. We're improving the status of the self-employed. We reduce the administrative burden and simplify the start-up of a business. At the tax level, we are preparing a comprehensive tax reform to modernize and simplify our tax system and make it fairer. We are reducing household taxation so that it is more in line with family-to-work reconciliation. A form of digital taxation must also be introduced. In this case, Belgium will play a leading role at the international level. The fight against tax and social fraud continues unabated. Colleagues, this government also intends to be an investment government. Jean Monet, one of the founding fathers of the European Union, once described the mobilising effect of a crisis: "People accept change only in necessity, and they see necessity only in crisis." It's a call to all of us. We must, in the midst of this crisis of the coronavirus, in these troubled times, despite everything, see the opportunities and seize them. This is why this government will invest in new growth, in forward-looking sectors, in digitisation and sustainability, with an investment package of a total of €4.7 billion. That makes this agreement the greenest coalition agreement in the history of our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u15	Belgium is also committed to 100% in the European Green Deal. We must not oppose ecology and economics. On the contrary, one and the other must be strengthened. The ecological transition will create new jobs, new quality of life and more innovation capacity. For example, we rely on renewable energies such as wind and photovoltaics, and we do so throughout the country, from Ostend to Arlon. This government also reconfirms the core exit and respects the legal exit calendar. But we are doing this in a sensible way, paying attention to affordability and security of supply, both for families and for businesses. At the same time, our government will pursue a strong anti-crisis policy, as long as uncertainty paralyzes our economy. To this end, we are extending the investment deduction and introducing the reconstruction reserve. Important tools for companies affected by corona. We must ensure that, as a government, we do not, under any circumstances, stop the revival. That is why, in these particularly uncertain times, we have a sensible and dynamic fiscal policy. Both investment and expenditure and savings depend on the recovery, but this government has the firm will to significantly improve the budgetary path in the coming years. As an open economy, the Belgian recovery depends heavily on the recovery in our neighbouring countries. But you can also force your happiness. To all Belgians, to all entrepreneurs, to all investors, I say clearly: this government will do everything, whatever it takes, to overcome the crisis! More than ever, the key to growth is investment. And investing, we will do so more than ever. Innovation is the lever for new growth. That is why the Digital Agenda will be at the heart of all policy areas, from justice to healthcare. But innovation also means giving space to trial-and-error. That is why we are focusing, for example, on pilot projects on rail; we are strengthening the tech ecosystem in niches where we are leading as a country; and there will be a real federal data strategy. The Belgium of the future, that is Digital Belgium, where we take everyone into the digital revolution. It says investment, it also says trust. For this, we need not only a recovery plan, but also a confidence plan in our country. We need to restore confidence. Not only in the economic sense of the term, but above all in the political sense. Colleagues, the world is changing, politics must also follow this path. We are committed to a completely different policy. A constructive policy of trust and respect. Because aborting, that's easy, it really doesn't take much effort, but it doesn't get us anywhere. In recent years, we have seen how roughness and hardness have also taken over the political debate. But what has that taught us, apart from more contradictions, more polarization and more mutual incomprehension and resulting in long formations? One of my predecessors once said: "Marriage is the worst thing that can happen to politics. Conjecture, ladies and gentlemen, threatens to hypothesize what we have all built together." So, if we want to build bonds, move forward, advance our society, our economy, our country, the key word is trust. That is why we are embarking on a political renewal by opening the door to new forms of participation and citizen initiatives. We confirm the status of whistleblower and raise the legal age for voting in the European elections to 16 years. We are fighting the spread of fake news, which poses a serious threat to our democracy. In short, we are embarking on a path of reform to make politics more ethical in our country; to put citizens at the heart of our concerns. Because political immobilism, cynicism, attacks have won too much in recent years, have really not helped us. The government intends to prepare a thorough reform of the state structures during the next legislature. It will hold a broad democratic debate on this issue with citizens, civil society, academia and political representatives. The aim is to create a new state structure from 2024, with a more homogeneous and efficient division of powers. This should lead to a strengthening of the autonomy of the Länder and of the power of the federal government. If we really want to move our country again, we will have to put cooperation and respect at the centre. Ladies and gentlemen, respect is also the Belgian social contract, its rights and its obligations. We must ensure that it is properly implemented. There will be more police officers on the street; 1,600 new police officers each year. We are instigating accelerated justice for petty crime. And we ensure that all sentences are effectively executed. By digitizing justice and finally propelling it into the 21st century, we will reduce the backlog. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a special moment for Belgian democracy. For the first time in our country's history, a government is asking for confidence, not in the Palace of the Nations, but in the European Parliament, the beating heart of European democracy. A parliament that has had to fight hard for its legitimacy, which was not directly elected at its creation, and which has had to wait years for recognition and an important role in our European democracy. This House is a living proof that democratically acquired rights are never evident. That is also why this government is heading in a very pro-European direction. Belgium and the Belgian economy have only to gain from a strong and united Europe. True to the history of our country, this government wants to continue building bridges and actively seeking a new European consensus where the central concern is for citizens and their rights. Our country fully supports the strategic autonomy that Europe wants to develop in the years to come. Belgium demands a fair distribution of responsibilities and burdens in the area of asylum and migration at European level. We have a humane policy for those who need protection and a firm return policy for those who have no future in our country. In our international action too, cooperation and respect will be the key words. The only way to deal with the great challenges of our time – climate change, terrorism and extremism, pandemics, violations of international law and the rule of law – is to cooperate with other countries. This Government will therefore be an ardent advocate of multilateral cooperation. The Sustainable Development Goals and the 2030 Agenda of the United Nations represent our compass in this regard. A strong foreign policy is important for our security. The transatlantic relationship has a strategic importance for our country and for Europe. Belgium will continue its commitment to effective European defence. NATO remains the cornerstone of Europe's collective defence. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude with the Italian Christian Democrat Di Gasperi, a contemporary of Schuman, Spinelli and Monet, who once said: 'The future will not be built with power nor with conquest, but by the patient application of the democratic method, the constructive spirit of the agreement and by respecting freedom'. It is in that spirit that I want to ask for the confidence of this Chamber today. Because the agreement of this government is built on trust, on the will to move forward, on the patient application of democratic principles and, above all, on the willingness to seek consensus. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking for the confidence of the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u16	Colleagues, I received a motion of confidence from the Prime Minister at 2:29 p.m., which reads: "The government is asking for the confidence of the House." Colleagues, I received a motion of confidence from the Prime Minister at 2.29 p.m. It reads as follows: 'The government demands the trust of the Chamber'. The House may take a decision on this motion only after 48 hours after the tabling of the motion (s. 140, No. 6, Rgt.). The Chamber shall give its opinion on this motion at the earliest 48 hours after its submission (Art. 140, No. 6, Rgt.). We will therefore be able to vote on the motion of confidence as soon as Saturday at 2:29 p.m. We can therefore vote on the motion of confidence at 2.29 p.m. on Saturday at the earliest. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 September 2020, I propose that we meet in plenary for the discussion of the government statement on Friday from 10 a.m. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 September 2020, I propose that the Government's statement be discussed in plenum on Friday from 10 a.m. No observations? Are you sure you don't mind?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u17	Mr President, I have a small question about the organisation of work tomorrow. We received an A4 budget slip from the House services. In view of what has appeared in the press, I suppose that we have already gone further in the budgetary discussions: where is the euro going? What about pensions, etc.- Is that what you're saying? Could we then receive all the documents to view the projections up to 2024? The budget was also discussed in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u18	Mr President, I have been asked by several groups to obtain a budget table. Of course, that table is not just about expenditure; it is also about how it is financed. At the request of those groups, I made the budget table available this morning. I hear from Mr Hedebouw that he has additional questions. Of course, that is what the debate is for. When I have just spoken about respect, of course it is also about respect for Parliament. I look forward to the questions that Mr Hedebouw will ask and the answers I will be able to give him.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-01-55-plenair-ip057x.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, everyone can express their views on that budget table. That is the purpose of the debate that we will have tomorrow. I suggest that we do not take a preliminaries to that debate and that everyone can fully incorporate their comments into the debate tomorrow. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Friday, October 2, 2020 at 10:00 a.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Friday 2 October 2020 at 10 a.m.
