ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u1	Good morning, everyone. We will conclude this question-and-answer session at approximately 12:15 p.m. I would also remind you that Mr. Dermagne will come every second Tuesday and every fourth Tuesday of the month. The questions not asked today will therefore be postponed to two weeks. In order to save time, I invite you to refer, as far as possible, to the written text of your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u2	Mr. Secretary, nice to meet you. Hopefully we won't be seeing each other digitally anytime soon. I would like to thank you in advance for referring to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u3	As far as my second question is concerned, Minister, I will be quite brief. A complicated debate is causing controversy among the social partners. I should not remind you that at the end of 2019, INAMI already had 420,000 long-term patients and that, in principle, the reintegration process did not have a good record. Having said that, we also want to be able to rely on tangible figures to assess the situation. These provisions may lead to a return to work in a lower quality activity for a lower wage. On the other hand, dismissals for cases of force majeure are sometimes decided, on the pretext that the employer cannot offer a suitable job. Similarly, some people with pathologies that make them unfit for work are put under pressure. As a new minister, what is your view on this? What can you do to reduce the number of layoffs for medical force majeure cases? Will you encourage pre-work visits? How do you intend to empower businesses? How will they be encouraged or even forced – if necessary – to offer people a real adapted job? What initiatives are you taking to address the root of the problem and create suitable jobs?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure for me to meet you – even by videoconference this morning – and I hope, of course, that we will be able to end it as quickly as possible and meet with us physically. As regards the possible reduction in the number of reintegration pathways in recent months, I would first like to point out that there are currently no figures available to confirm this. A possible decrease in the number of reintegration pathways during the crisis period might be explained by the difficult conditions for occupational doctors to conduct physical reintegration studies in view of the high risk of contagion. Moreover, they are very questioned for corona-related problems in companies. In addition, a number of companies had to temporarily reduce or stop their activities, making it difficult to find and offer adapted jobs. We will, of course, continue to monitor this situation closely. As the government agreement indicates, we do not intend to leave workers with a health problem to their fate. In consultation with the social partners and in collaboration with colleague Frank Vandenbroucke, responsible for health insurance, we will assess the organisation and management of the reintegration processes. This multidisciplinary approach will simplify and coordinate procedures so that more workers can start a re-integration process. The government wants to enable workers with a health problem or disability to return to work as much as possible. In particular, the government agreement states that the employment thresholds will be removed. Together with the social partners, we will help employers to create more viable working conditions. Responding to all relevant actors, employers, employees and doctors, will be of great importance. When the organisation and management of reintegration projects are put to an end, financial incentives will also be examined. You're referring to the bill on employment integration jobs. The National Labour Council and the Court of Auditors have already issued opinions on that bill and made certain comments. Of course, the government wants to give maximum support to all people with health problems or disabilities in order to take the step to work and to remove the barriers to a job as far as possible. The coalition agreement therefore also pays attention to that target group. A system of voluntary work resumption will be developed, inspired by disability insurance, with attention to the specificity of the target group. Cooperation with the Länder is, of course, of the utmost importance. Mrs Moscufo, on the employment rate, this is a reference indicator used at European level. This is not the only indicator we use to assess our policy. We take into account, for example, the poverty rate. Moreover, not all jobs are taken into account in calculating the employment rate. Flexible jobs or flexi-jobs, for example, are not. With regard to the reintegration of long-term sick workers, I attach great importance to social consultation. Together with the social partners, we will strengthen the possibility for workers to return to work in good conditions. With them, we will see how it is possible to make companies more accountable to encourage the creation of suitable jobs. In addition, the recommendations of CNT's unanimous opinion 2099 (National Labour Council) of September 2018 will be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for the answer, which shows a great deal of ambition. That certainly pleases me. I would advise you to include my colleague Mr Spoorten's proposal, who has now become governor, in the drafting of the government agreement, because the principles set out therein are important assumptions for any reintegration proposal, namely the maintenance of benefits for a long period of time and the fact that the employee can, in the meantime, work further without much risk to the employer. If there is anything to be done about this, it is not a problem; the proposal is a good starting point. We will certainly continue to discuss the issue at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answer. We will follow closely the basis for defining the increase in activation. It is important not to limit itself only to forecasts at European level. For us, an employment rate must include full-time equivalents, because it is the only way to lead a decent life. As far as the second part of the question is concerned, we really want to insist on making employers responsible, given the diversity of work that exists. Take the case of a surface technician! I can imagine that an employer can hide behind his job and say that he does not have a suitable job. Particular attention should be paid to this aspect in the follow-up to the issue. In addition, I wanted to draw attention to the work to be done upstream. Indeed, in so-called arduous occupations, because many are not designated as such, it is important to examine working conditions, because it is usually because of them that people get sick. I am thinking in particular of people who work in the commercial sphere and who have many problems with tendinitis, etc. We will really have to work on the "here and now", but also in the longer term and we will be monitoring your work through the commission and through the figures, without which we cannot measure the extent of the measure or "judge it".
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u7	Minister, it is a pleasure to meet you, even though it is virtual and is not the same as being present together in the committee room. I refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u8	As a fresh minister, I am exploring the area and will consult with the various inspection services through the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service or SIOD and my federal fellow ministers. The competence for sanctions under Regulation 561/2006 lies mainly with the FPS Mobility and the federal police. In accordance with the partnership agreement with the transport sector, SIOD has planned a follow-up meeting where the issue will be discussed and it will be informed how the transport sector guidelines and checklists can be adapted in this context. As the FPS Mobility has an important role to play, contact was sought to conclude a protocol between the SIOD, the FPS Mobility and the relevant ministers. I would also point out that not all parts of the Mobility Package come into effect at the same time. For example, access to the profession, access to the market and combined transport will only have to be transposed into national legislation by 21 February 2022 and the Posting of Workers by 2 February 2022. The section on driving and rest periods came into force on 20 August last. You asked me about the interpretation of Articles 8 and 8a of Regulation 561/2006, but the social inspection services are only indirectly involved in monitoring the correct application of the regulation. In addition, the provisions of mandatory law cannot therefore be derogated from by contract. Of course, the social inspection services make the necessary findings in their checks, but the sanctioning is done by the FPS Mobility, the federal police and the regional inspection services on the basis of the penalty catalogue. No official findings have yet been made with regard to documents in which the driver waives the right of return, but the existence of those documents may be suspected. The social inspection services cannot sanction that fact themselves, but will always inform the employers concerned that it is not in conformity with the regulation. When compiling a file on social fraud, those elements may be added to the file. This will implicitly have an impact on the overall assessment of the file, especially where there are PO Box companies with a view to circumventing the rules on applicable social security and labour law legislation. In this way, the social inspection services not only deal with repression, but also with prevention and awareness raising of employers in the sector. You ask me if I intend to raise the matter with my European colleagues. Belgium has always regretted the ambiguity of the provision in question. At European level, it is my colleague, Mr Gilkinet, Minister for Mobility, who is responsible for discussing the mobility package. SIOD has always addressed the issue in the previous annual action plans. This will also be the case in 2021. One of the new trends identified by SIOD through a survey of the social inspection services and the social partners is the fact that a number of sectors of human trafficking and economic exploitation are heavily involved. It concerns the National Social Security Office, the Monitoring of Social Laws and the High Council for Self-employed and SMEs. In the context of the fight against social dumping and trafficking in human beings, therefore, the competent social inspection services continue to focus on controls at transport companies as a matter of priority. For example, the announced flash checks will focus on freight transport and there will be 900 actions and control investigations in the framework of 10,000 joint action checks and investigations. The action plan 2021 still needs to be adopted in the Strategic Committee, which I will chair. There is certainly no reduction in controls in the transport sector. Finally, I note that the General Executive Board of the Labour Inspectorate monitors the social laws of the FPS Employment, Labour and Social Consultation there are two specialised managements dealing with transport and transport. They therefore deal daily with transport controls and possible social dumping in that sector. The social inspectors concerned will, of course, take account of the new regulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for this very detailed answer. Colleagues, keep an eye on your speaking time on the screens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u10	I would, of course, like to hear that, in your opinion, it is also not in line with the Mobility Package Directive, if drivers could give up returning home once a month, if you would continue to use checks and raise the issue at European level. In fact, despite the application of the protection mechanism in August, drivers cannot be allowed to abandon it themselves and continue to live and work for months in their trucks and be far away from their families. The importance of this protection is that we can stop that kind of social dumping. Companies should not put pressure on drivers to completely undermine that protection. This is indeed a sector in which competition is relatively high. I can imagine that drivers are not so free to decide, but are mostly put under pressure. If this is done, the objective of the Mobility Package, part of which became applicable in August and other parts will enter into force systematically later, in particular in order to prevent social dumping in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u11	As Mr Boukili is absent, his question is moot and you have the floor, Mrs Moscufo.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u12	Dear colleague, transfer under the authority of justice is a means of ensuring the maintenance of all or part of the undertaking or its activities in the context of a judicial reorganization procedure. Since the Business Continuity Act has been repealed, this matter is currently governed by articles 2084 et seq. of the Code of Economic Law - Book XX, Title 5, Chapter 4 to be exact. These regulations do not fall within my jurisdiction; they depend on my excellent colleague, the Minister of Justice. With regard to your first question, which also mentions possible prosecutions by the prosecution service, you should be aware that this prerogative is not a matter for me either, but, again, for my colleague the Minister of Justice. With regard to the questions concerning compliance with the procedure for informing and consulting workers in the event of collective redundancies, better known as the Renault procedure, as well as possible proceedings in the event of non-compliance, please be aware that collective agreement No 24 provides for the obligation to introduce this procedure from the moment a number of workers are dismissed during a 60-day period. This number varies according to the size of the company. In the event of non-compliance with these provisions, sanctions are of course provided for by the Act of 13 February 1998, known as the Renault Act. These include the reintegration into the enterprise of laid-off workers. The conditions for applying this information and consultation procedure in the event of collective redundancies remain unchanged at this time of crisis. Failure to comply with these regulations is also punishable by criminal penalties contained in the Social Penal Code. The Labour Inspectorate (control of social laws) ensures compliance with these provisions. Inspectors may, where appropriate, draw up minutes, which may give rise to criminal or administrative proceedings. I recently reminded the Inspectorate of my commitment to the Renault procedure and asked them to ensure that it was properly applied. It should be noted, however, that in the event of bankruptcy, this procedure should not be followed. Under this procedure, the aim of exchanges with staff representatives is to reduce or mitigate the impact of redundancies by means of measures such as reclassification or retraining. To do this, the company must remain active. If the company does not have the means to survive, such discussions no longer have a raison d'être.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u13	Minister, thank you. We obviously put the questions to your colleague Minister of Justice, but we were also interested in your views as Minister of Labour. Without entering into technical considerations, this still poses the following problem. In our view, some companies, such as Wibra, are putting in place mechanisms to escape this Renault law. This prevents unions from following up correctly, if it can be described as correct when one is, in any case, in a situation where job losses must be negotiated, which is not always correct in itself. The Renault law allowed at least some control and, despite everything, some pressure could be exerted by workers through their trade union organizations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u14	I ask you to continue to address this issue and we will follow the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u15	Madam President, Minister, let me begin by congratulating you on your appointment. Minister, individuals, schools and a number of sectors, including the Horeca, have been imposed strict health protocols in order to maintain their activity. On the other hand, no protocol is imposed on companies. While the majority of employers are responsible for the health of their employees, this approach raises questions on a case-by-case basis. So, what if my employer refuses telework when my job would allow it? How do I react when a co-worker gets sick and waits for the result of his test? When should the company be closed down? Of course, information is available on the Employment SPF website. But, for the rest, the site simply refers to the Regions. In its last statements, the Consultation Committee recalled that telework was the rule at the federal level. For his part, the Prime Minister announced that consultations with employers' federations would be organized to better monitor what is happening on the ground. Finally, this weekend, the Brussels, Walloon and Wallonia-Brussels governments made teleworking compulsory. Mr Minister, did you plead, at the last meetings of the Concertation Committee, for mandatory teleworking throughout Belgium, for example, knowing that the capital is home to commuters from all over the country? What is the difference between telework which is the rule and mandatory telework? Indeed, according to the UCM, but also to other actors on the ground, this deserves clarification as to the opportunity to close a company, to come to work when you feel isolated at home or when it comes to giving face-to-face training. Has occupational medicine received specific instructions? How is the protection of privacy in business managed in the event of increased use of telework? What are the results of the famous consultations with employers' federations announced by the Prime Minister? Will a specific health protocol be adopted and communicated to employers? If so, within what time frame? Will it be valid throughout the country? To what extent can controls in companies be carried out?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u16	Mrs Rohonyi, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u17	I come to my last question, Madam President. Given that the reduction in road traffic and traffic flows in public transport are indicators for measuring the effective use of telework, what concrete and quantified result do you expect in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u18	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, thank you for your question and congratulations. Together with my colleagues, Frank Vandenbroucke, Minister of Health, and Pedro Facon, Government Commissioner for Coronavirus, of course, we are working to put in place measures to combat the spread of coronavirus within the workplace. As you know, it has been decided that telework at home is the rule as soon as the function lends itself to it. If telework is not possible, companies, associations and services must take measures to ensure compliance with health and social distancing rules, in particular the maintenance of a distance of at least 1.5 metres between each person. As you recalled, the Prime Minister called on employers' federations to participate in a consultation. This consultation started yesterday and I met with representatives of the various employers' federations to reflect on how to frame this telework which is the rule and which also contains certain exceptions, which you noted, to allow both respect for the continuity of the management of the enterprise or the public service and to take account of the individual needs of the workers. You mentioned a few examples. The Generic Guide to Combat the Spread of VOCID-19 at Work serves as a basis for enterprises, but appropriate measures are nevertheless developed at the enterprise, association or service level in accordance with the rules of social consultation with the prevention and protection services. Social consultation and respect for institutions such as the committees for prevention and protection of work are essential elements for me. The rules are therefore established at the federal level and inspection services will monitor compliance. As to whether occupational medicine has received specific instructions, one of the regulatory tasks of the occupational doctor is to avoid the admission to work of persons with serious transmissible diseases. It therefore plays a key role in countering the transmission of VOCID-19 in the company. I also support the position of the social partners in the High Council for Prevention and Protection at Work of 7 October, in which the social partners believe that the occupational doctor must have a key role in identifying risks in the undertaking and in carrying out the VOCID test for workers in certain specific situations. It is important here that the occupational physician be able to direct high-risk contacts to a testing centre without intervention by the doctor treating the worker. With the help of my administration, I take the appropriate steps to get there as quickly as possible. The issue of the protection of privacy in the workplace can be addressed in two ways: firstly, from the point of view of the extent of the employer's right of control over the worker and, secondly, from the point of view of the increased use of videoteleconference platforms. For the second angle, I invite you, Mrs Rohonyi, to ask the Secretary of State for Digitalisation, who is responsible in particular for the protection of privacy. In conclusion, Madam President, with regard to the employer's right to control workers, each individual has, of course, the right to privacy and violations of these rights must be examined in the light of the principles of legality, purpose and proportionality. The fact that a person enters into a contract of employment and thus marks his agreement to the performance of a job in a place of subordination does not imply that he loses his fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u19	Minister, I am pleased to hear that the consultation announced by the Prime Minister has already taken place and that, particularly in this context, consideration will be given to the individual needs of workers, their social and mental well-being. This is fundamental. The ministerial decree, when it refers to well-organized and limited return times, remains unclear. For the rest, hearing the different levels of being able to talk about mandatory rules and telework is confusing the minds of citizens, employers, and employees. Finally, this does not contribute to full adherence to the measures. I would like to regret this because we know, and the Crisis Centre has reminded us quite rightly yesterday, that companies are fully involved in the fight against coronavirus. As far as controls in companies are concerned, I think they will really need to be stepped up. I hear your will in relation to that. Care should be taken to ensure that people work safely when telework is not possible. Finally, I did not hear you answer my last question about how to measure the effective impact of telework. For example, this Monday saw a 20% reduction in road traffic in Brussels. It should be able to be measured throughout the country. But if necessary, I will ask your Mobility counterpart to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u20	Madam President, if I may, I would like to reply. I did not answer the honourable Member's last question, and I apologize for that. Mrs Rohonyi, I would like to point out to you that, following yesterday's consultation with the employers' federations, we decided to instruct the ERMG to monitor a whole series of data and to collate these various statistics, in particular those relating to the use of public transport or the congestion of our roads and motorways.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u21	Madam President, since I am working on legislative work in another committee, I refer to the question put in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u22	Madam President, I thank the various parliamentarians for their joint questions. In the event of leave given by the employer before or during a period of suspension of the performance of the contract of employment due to force majeure resulting from the crisis of the coronavirus, the period of notice shall cease to run during that suspension. This is provided for in Article 2 of the Act of 15 June 2020 to suspend the notice periods for leave given before or during the period of temporary suspension of the performance of the employment contract on grounds of force majeure due to the VOCID-19 crisis. The terminology used in this article is broad. The aim is to cover any situation of force majeure resulting from measures taken by the government to limit the spread of coronavirus. This force majeure can occur both in the employer's head and in the worker's head. Where a worker is required to enter quarantine and is therefore unable to comply with his employment contract, the implementation of the agreement will be suspended due to temporary force majeure resulting from the measures to limit the spread of the coronavirus. I confirm that during this period of suspension the notice given by the employer will be withdrawn, as envisaged by Article 2 of the Law of 15 June 2020. With regard to the figures requested by Mrs Moscufo, given the late submission of the question, you will understand that I have not been able to collate them and assemble them in time to give you these elements. I therefore invite you to ask me a written question in order to transmit them to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u23	Minister, we will send you the question in writing for the figures. This is important in order to have a concrete view on the ground. I am still a little disappointed with your answer because you are referring to the sections of law that apply these elements, but we still have the ambition to change the laws when they are not fair to the workers. Perhaps you still intend to think about this and see how you can set up a law or royal decree to correct things. When we discussed this problem in committee, we were able to rectify what existed thanks to the demands of the social partners. We were able to solve the problem for some people from 22 June. Your party had also supported the bill and our amendment at the time that wanted to go further. We expect you to change this law, which is not correct in our eyes. In the meantime, we will be waiting for your answer to the figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u24	Minister, thank you for your full answer. As we pointed out, we supported a bill introduced by the Sp.a., which equated temporary unemployment with unemployment for economic reasons. I can hear your answer. The aim is to give priority to the well-being of workers. Given the scale of the crisis, it might be appropriate to make some corrections to satisfy everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u25	Madam President, first of all, I would like to congratulate the Deputy Prime Minister. In order to allow as many Members as possible to speak today, I refer to the text tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u26	Madam President, I thank the honourable Member for his question and for his congratulations. As far as I am aware, no studies have been carried out so far on the employment effects of our country. The greening of the fleet is followed at regional level because it is a regional competence but possible changes in employment are not specifically examined. Based on Eurostat's labour force survey, we can monitor developments in the construction and assembly of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers, wholesale and retail trade and repair of motor vehicles and motorcycles since 2010. In these sectors, we have seen a drop in employment of some 21,800 people in Belgium between 2010 and 2019 for the European Union as a whole. However, we observed a strong increase over the same period. However, the NACE classification of sectors does not identify new jobs which may result from a shift to greener mobility. In addition, other important benefits that result from or will result from this, such as improved air quality, reduced CO2 emissions and noise pollution, are not readily measurable today. Vocational education and the match between supply and demand in the labour market are a regional competence, as you know. Of course, the federal government supports this approach through measures to stimulate labour demand in general. In international reports on the automotive sector in which Belgium is included, such as the 2019 Digital Auto Report, the focus is unfortunately on the United States and China. In summary, MP, it is only expected that car sales will increase only slightly in the coming years and, at the same time, a strong growth in the market for mobility services such as private leasing and shared cars. This could therefore lead to the creation of new services and new jobs. At the same time, software is becoming an increasingly important part of the car, so that new jobs could be created here too.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u27	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is of course essential to fight global warming while making our planet cleaner. Like the release of nuclear power by 2025, the gradual electrification of the Belgian fleet is a goal that our government has set itself. However, it is important to anticipate the possible employment implications of the development of electric vehicles. That was also the purpose of my question. In fact, if current trades are gradually to disappear, new trades are likely to emerge and others that already exist will benefit from a great demand. I will mention, for example, the trades of bobinier and assembler-câbleur or even the engineers specializing in electricity. In order to develop the sectors in order to meet the demand for skilled labour, collaboration with the federated entities - particularly in the education and training sector - will help to prepare for the future and thus compensate for the loss of jobs resulting from the gradual decline in the production of technical engines.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u28	Madam President, Minister, first of all, I would like to welcome you to our committee. In order to speed things up, I will refer you to my written question on the small fee for foster parents.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u29	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, thank you for your questions. Progress has indeed been made in recent years in improving the situation of foster parents. It is also true, however, that there are still considerable differences in relation to other families, particularly in relation to circumstances. I am, of course, prepared to work with the social partners on these aspects. I will therefore contact the social partners in the near future to see if concrete proposals can be made.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u30	Madam President, Minister, it is good to hear that you agree with me that foster parents have an important role to play in society and that they should not be discriminated against effectively. They should actually have the same rights as other parents, especially if they receive long-term children. They must therefore also be able to make use of the small dereliction. You reply that you will ask the social partners to look at the dossier and also whether they have concrete proposals. In this respect, I would like to refer you to the specific proposal I made myself. I have tabled a bill, in particular Bill No. 304, on which I tabled another amendment in October 2020, to ensure that foster parents can take it lightly. It is therefore a good thing that an opinion has already been requested from the social partners. I hope that we can discuss the legislative proposal as soon as possible in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u31	Mr. Secretary, nice to meet you. I welcome you to our committee. I would like to refer to the written version of my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u32	Madam Chair, I thank parliamentarians for their questions. On 7 October, the social partners meeting within the National Labour Council concluded an important agreement on four aspects: firstly, the assimilation of temporary unemployment due to force majeure for annual holidays and their financing; secondly, the freezing of the degressivity of full unemployment benefits; the neutralisation of the period of integration allowances until 31/12/2020 included; thirdly, the problem of the extension until 31/12/2021 included by the CLC of the National Labour Council No 147 concerning temporary unemployment resulting from economic causes for employees; fourthly, the neutralisation in the CLC of the National Labour Council No 103 of the corona parental leave, of the corona time credit and of the end-of-care jobs corona for the calculation of the conditions of occupation in order to be able to access time credit. The social partners stress the uniqueness and indivisibility of this agreement. At my request, the government has decided to implement that agreement of the National Labour Council. However, the social partners must conclude their discussions on financing the assimilation for the annual leave for employees. Today, Tuesday 27 October, I am with the social partners, so that the implementation process can be completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I am particularly pleased that the government is responding to the demands of the social partners. They have, however, introduced the necessary nuances by focusing on the most affected sectors in order to ensure that annual holidays are equal. It is very important for workers to be able to take holidays next year. There are plenty of reports about how mentally difficult the corona crisis is. It is very important for employees to be able to recover from time to time, whether telework or ordinary work. Everywhere, the corona crisis increases the pressure. The agreement is also one and indivisible. It also covers other aspects, such as the extension of the degressivity of unemployment in the case of temporary unemployment for employed persons and the neutralization of corona-parental leave, which allows people coming out of corona-parental leave to switch at least to a time credit for any motive, whenever they consider it necessary. That is a very important point. It is all four key points to bridge the crisis, both for workers and for job seekers, who now have to apply in difficult circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answer. We don't have much detail on paid leave. On this aspect, I wanted to draw your attention to different elements and first of all to the reality at the sector level. The postponement of paid leave can of course lead to a course, but I would hope that, for a matter of fairness, such leave will not be lost and that this measure will not have a tax impact. In this regard, I do not know whether any work has already been done. Of course, this is not just about the Minister of Employment, but I think you need to be careful about it and find solutions, not to mention the part of the funding for the employer. I hope that you will discuss this issue with your government colleagues and find solutions that will suit both sides.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is a good example of an important principle in the Work chapter of the coalition agreement, namely that when the social partners come to agreements, they will be honoured. The social partners have stated that the agreement is one and indivisible. I think it is a very good thing, not only because of the content, therefore the measures themselves, but also because of the principle that social dialogue is important, that the government has the will to honour the agreement. I look forward to the implementation of the various measures and will continue to follow them with due attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answer. I join my colleagues and am very pleased to hear you say that there is an agreement on the table with the social partners and that this agreement is indivisible. We can only rejoice for the workers who are experiencing great difficulties today. Thank you again for this beautiful work!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u37	Madam President, Minister, domestic workers working in service contracts have some of the lowest monthly gross salaries: 880 euros in 2017. Low hourly wages and the vast majority of part-time workers account for this low average. I say "working" because 98% of women are women. During the crisis, these workers were among the front-line by continuing to provide domestic assistance in families and the elderly, sometimes in difficult conditions. In view of the decline in demand and despite the consequent regional aid to enterprises, many domestic workers were put into temporary unemployment with the loss of income, even though the supplements which had been decided at the time. These days of unemployment have been assimilated to calculate the annual holidays as foreseen by the Royal Decrees of 4 June 2020 and 13 September 2020. However, today, when calculating the end-of-year premium, women employed in service securities find that these days of "corona" unemployment are, on the other hand, not assimilated for the calculation of their end-of-year premium. This results in a loss of income that is all the more detrimental to women workers as it adds to the loss of income already incurred in 2020. There is, however, an exception as to the number of days to have access to the bonus. It's already a step in the right direction. Minister, given the specific support received by the service securities sector and the low wages in this sector, are you considering taking an initiative to assimilate the days of temporary unemployment VOCID in the calculation of the end-of-year premiums? Is it possible for the State to take over? Possible with which tags?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u38	With regard to my second question, Mr Minister, I have already referred on several occasions to working conditions and to the situation of domestic workers because I have been worried about all this for some time. Of course, the health crisis does not help. After significant wage losses in recent months, service workers, as they are often women, are at risk of being affected financially again in December, particularly when they pay their year-end premium. Since days of temporary unemployment due to force majeure "corona" are not treated as days worked, the conditions of access and the amount of the premium granted to domestic workers will be altered. In order for a household worker to receive a year-end premium, she must have worked at least 65 days in the service securities sector during the reference period. However, days of temporary unemployment due to force majeure "corona" are not treated as days worked. Thus, workers who started working in 2020 may not meet this condition. Minister, in order to ensure that service workers are not penalized, are you considering an initiative to assimilate the day of temporary unemployment in the calculation of year-end premiums? Are you also considering assistance to help employers cope with the payment of this premium?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u39	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Madam President, in the hospitality sector, a collective agreement today provides for the equivalence of temporary unemployment in the calculation of the end-of-year premiums. In this sector, end-of-year contributions are not paid directly by employers to employees. This is done through the sectoral fund, the Guarantee and Social Fund Horeca. This fund is fed by contributions from industry employers. Employers pay a monthly contribution, unless otherwise agreed. Since March, the Horeca sector has been, as you know, particularly affected by the crisis. Indeed, between 15 March and 30 June, this sector had to close down. Following the decision of the Consultation Committee on Friday, 16 October, it had to close again for one month, unless otherwise assessed after 15 days. This means that most of the institutions in the Horeca have experienced more than four months of temporary unemployment since the beginning of the year. This has led to cascading consequences for this sector, including the non-payment by employers of monthly contributions due to the Fund, which is now unable to pay the end-of-year premiums to workers in the sector. In order to help this sector, which is particularly in crisis, and to guarantee the end-of-year employee premiums, the government has decided to grant a grant to the Horeca Guarantee and Social Fund. Mrs Cornet, Mrs Thémont, you have rightly indicated that the question of the end-of-year premium also arises in other sectors. In sectors such as service securities, the conditions for granting the end-of-year premium to workers are laid down in a collective labour agreement which does not provide for the assimilation of temporary unemployment coronavirus. In order to ensure equal treatment and not penalise certain workers, I have proposed to the government a general assimilation of periods of temporary unemployment coronavirus for the calculation of the year-end premium. In addition, in order not to penalize the sectors and employers affected by the crisis, I also proposed a compensation mechanism. A decision will be taken next week in the context of the discussions on the package of measures to address the crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u40	Minister, I have a lot of questions about this. Of course, we already agreed that the end-of-year premium would be taken over in the hospitality sector, because there too it is often about people who work for low wages and who have already suffered a great deal of loss of income from temporary unemployment. It is therefore important for them to be able to count on that little income as a result of the end of the year. Especially in view of the current second wave and the dark days, it is important that everyone gets through the end of the year in a good way on the income side. I am often asked whether the scheme also applies to suppliers and why it applies only to the catering industry and not to bus drivers or the travel sector. There are also many heavily affected sectors which are not necessarily closed, but which are de facto closed because no one is travelling or because no one is coming on the floor. The same applies to the service cheque sector, in which housekeepers are regularly called off because the customer is sick in bed at home and it is too dangerous to work there. In this sense, I certainly support the question of general equivalence and compensation for certain sectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for the initiative you have taken in the government's lap. I can only support Mr Vanrobaeys: in this period in particular, people often have extra costs, for example more energy costs because they are more at home. The end of the year is in sight and, as Mr Vanrobaeys says, it is important that people can still celebrate the end of the year in a 'good way', between quotes. Especially for low-wage people, the end-of-year bonus is really substantial. It's hardly a bonus, but something they really need, so I can only support that question. As I said, it is particularly important to do so in the sectors where people work for low wages. Indeed, it is obvious to support closed sectors, but there are also many sectors that are indirectly affected by this crisis. So you have our support for the successful outcome of this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u42	Minister, I can only associate myself with the thanks of my colleagues and with their congratulations on this excellent initiative, which combines VOCID unemployment with the compensation mechanism. This provision avoids the double penalty for low-wage workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u43	Minister, thank you for your answers. Similarly, I can only rejoice in your approach. It is reassuring that temporary unemployment in Horeca will be combined with end-of-year premiums. We know that this sector is particularly affected by VOCID. As far as service titles are concerned, I very much welcome your answer. In my view, the principle of equal treatment is indeed paramount. I am therefore reassured that you have proposed this compensation mechanism. This is essential for all these women who work under not always simple conditions and whose job is difficult. They are, moreover, faced daily with problems in some clients. It's not easy every day. In many cases, they suffer significant loss of income, with low wages resulting in their falling into temporary unemployment to the point where they face difficult-to-manage family situations. In any case, I thank you for this great initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u44	It is a subject that I have always followed and for which I have invested a great deal. Little seems to exist in the government agreement on the situation of close caregivers, whether in relation to dependent elderly persons or persons with disabilities. The question is fundamental. There has been some progress on recognition, but legislation remains a practically empty framework for aid to be provided and strong recognition in everyday life. This is particularly the case with the thematic leave component. Will it be extended, as originally planned, by 2024? In a crisis situation like this, is an 18-month period sufficient? Does the government plan to implement the Royal Decree of 16 June 2020 implementing the Act of 12 May 2014 on the recognition of the immediate caregiver and the granting of social rights to the immediate caregiver? I would like you to take stock of this issue, which still concerns thousands of people who, not only invest in their loved ones, but also compensate the State, at all levels of power, for a lack of care.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u45	Thank you to Mrs Fonck for her question on this important subject. As you know, since September 1, 2020, workers recognized as caregivers close to a person in need of care are entitled to immediate caregiver leave in the form of a total suspension of their employment contract or a reduction in their benefits. This right to leave is governed by Articles 100b and 102b of the Reorganization Act of 22 January 1985 containing social provisions. The duration of such leave may not exceed six months on a full-time basis or twelve months on a part-time basis throughout the career, without the possibility of cumulation of such periods for the time being. Access to full-time leave is open to all workers, regardless of their working regime, while access to part-time leave is only possible for full-time workers. During this leave, the worker is entitled to ONEM allowances. In its current form, leave for close caregivers may be taken on a full-time basis for up to one month per dependent person. If the immediate caregiver's leave is taken on a part-time basis, the maximum duration is two months per dependent person. Given the maximum duration over the entire career, this means that this leave can currently be taken for six dependents. The Act of 22 January 1985 provides for the possibility of extending this maximum period by one month or two months, up to a maximum of six months provided for by Royal Decree. I would like to point out that, in addition to this new caregiving leave, workers may, under certain conditions, also use another leave to assist certain persons in situations of dependency, including leave to assist or provide care to a seriously ill household member or family member. This is the Royal Decree of 10 August 1998. Under this leave scheme, the worker has the option of totally suspending his benefits for a maximum period of 12 months per patient or close to him, or taking such leave in periods of a minimum month or three months maximum, or reducing his benefits by a fifth, or up to half, for a maximum period of 24 months per patient or close friend, to be taken also in periods of a minimum month and a maximum of three months. During this leave, of course, the worker is also entitled to ONEM allowances. In addition to these so-called thematic holidays, a worker who fulfils certain conditions also has the possibility of taking credit to assist or provide care to a member of the household or family suffering from a serious illness. It's CTC 103, as you know. Possible adaptation of existing legislation should be considered in the wider context of all existing leave possibilities. In this context, it is also desirable to seek the views of the social partners in the National Labour Council. Finally, with regard to your question concerning the application of the Royal Decree of 16 June 2020, implementing the Law of 12 May 2014 on the recognition of the carer and the granting of social rights to him, I am unfortunately obliged to send you back to my excellent colleague the Minister of Social Affairs Frank Vandenbroucke, who is the competent minister in this field.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u46	Mr. Minister, thank you for doing a little bit anyway. In Belgium, it's terrible. Ping-pong games between levels of power are frequent, but not able to address, in a cross-cutting way, at the level of the same government, different aspects relating to close caregivers with different ministers, it is nevertheless a pity. In short, I shall rest the question with Minister Vandenbroucke. I can hear what you're saying. They can use other leave, etc. But I don't know if you're measuring well that for the people concerned, all this is still a famous maze. I believe that a targeted thematic approach should be adopted for close caregivers, with flexibility in relation to the scheme. These must be said to add to the existing devices. You referred to it. Something would have to be done that would allow much more continuity from close caregivers to helpers. That's my first comment. We really need to look at this. As far as the second part is concerned, I note that at the same time, the famous 18-month announcement made in its time, not by taking a series of other leave but as being a real leave of absence for close care, is in fact a false promise, a false announcement. We will come back to that because it is obviously unacceptable. I really feel like we've manipulated close caregivers in a way by making them believe in something that ultimately doesn't apply and, I have to understand, that won't apply. This is obviously damaging and damaging to the people concerned. We will have the opportunity, Minister, to come back to it in the coming weeks and months. Anyway, you can count on me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u47	Madam President, in order to avoid a reading exercise, I would like to refer to the question I have tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u48	Madam President, Mrs Fonck, thank you for your question. As you know, the government agreement provides for the protection of people, the social fabric and businesses in order to avoid as many redundancies as possible. The health crisis we are experiencing is of course unprecedented and particularly violent. The highest priority, shared by the government as a whole, is the health and safety of the population as a whole. To combat the virus, with all the governments of our country, we are forced to take strong measures, which of course have a significant impact on a large number of sectors, businesses and workers. That is why, together with my colleagues from the federal government, but also from the Regions and the Communities, we are working to put in place measures to support workers, workers and the various companies that are particularly affected. Measures have already been put in place for the Horeca sector - as I mentioned a few moments ago - in particular with the intervention in financing the end-of-year premium for workers in the sector. We could also talk about the doubling of the bridge law for the self-employed, as well as a range of other measures. In any case, as a result of the last consultation committee, almost half a billion euros of support measures, coming only from the federal level, are being discussed, and it is known that aid from the Regions and the Communities is being added to this. We are also actively working on a set of crisis measures to ensure the future and avoid restructuring and job losses. You mentioned temporary unemployment in your question. This is an important measure, which is a real alternative to dismissal and which allows companies, entrepreneurs and also workers to see some perspectives. We are also obviously working on preventive measures. The improvement of worker training is also part of this. This was also the subject of discussions with representatives of the various sectors, not only the horeca and event sector, but also with representatives of the cultural sector. This is a particular focus for us, for the government as a whole, but also of course for our colleagues in the governments of the federated entities.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u49	Minister, I think there is a gap between the question and the answer, as you answer me by targeting the current health crisis and the VOCID-19 measures. My point, in my question, was more fundamentally and broadly about what could be achieved in relation to the whole problem of collective redundancies, both upstream of collective redundancies and downstream, with regard to the employability of the workers who are affected. It is a debate, in fact, that already existed well before the health crisis, and that must clearly be able to be addressed independently of the current health crisis and the economic consequences, obviously as well independent of all urgent measures in the face of VOCID-19. I must stay on my hunger, since you have addressed this issue through the health context. However, the stakes are wider, since restructurings have obviously taken place well before the health crisis, therefore, without having any connection with it. I will certainly have the opportunity to come back and I hope that we will then be able to deal with the matter in a principal way.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u50	Madam Chair, I refer to the written text of my question, but I did not understand why these two questions were not attached to the others.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u51	I also wondered. I don't know either because the subject is relatively close. Minister, if you prefer, you can refer to the previous answer. I have the impression that the answers were given in item 9 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u52	If the minister agrees that this is the same issue and that he has nothing to add to the possible answer he had prepared to this question, then I am referring to the question as filed and will just make use of my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u53	I am also checking with Mrs Vanrobaeys because she has already asked the minister under item 9 of the agenda. Is your new question different? Would you like to hear the minister again or would you like to comment?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u54	Madam President, I have received an answer to my questions about the year-end premium, but my second question was about the protection material.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u55	Minister, I will let you clarify the material question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u56	Madam President, Mrs Vanrobaeys, thank you for your question. And thank you, Mrs Moscufo, for your reply later. The situation of workers and workers in the service cheque sector is special, because they work in people's homes and there is a triangular relationship between employers, employees and beneficiary customers. There is even a fourth actor, the subsidising government, since the sixth state reform these are the regions. However, the same general principles must be applied, in terms of well-being at work. In total, 29 complaints concerning service cheque companies were submitted to the Regional Directors of the General Directorate of Welfare Supervision at Work for the period from 18 March 2020, the beginning of the lockdown, until 18 October 2020. After examination by the inspection, 13 of these complaints were well-founded, 8 were partially unfounded and 7 were unfounded. One complaint is still pending. In total, 21 so-called consultation visits, inspections or remote inspections were carried out for the abovementioned period and 22 inspections were carried out at the seat of the service cheque company concerned. In view of the very restrictive restrictions imposed by the Social Criminal Code on entering residential premises, no inspection visits were carried out with private customers at home who use service cheques. The generic guide to combat the spread of corona at work also applies, of course, to the service cheque sector. The Joint Subcommittee No. 322.01, in the case of approved enterprises providing community works or services, the development of specific preventive measures taking into account the characteristics of the sector has been discussed in detail without reaching an agreement approved by all. A fairly comprehensive text of sectoral directives was drawn up by employers' organisations at the end of June 2020, which also refers to the additional measures taken by the three regions. This text shall be made available to undertakings. The stumbling block for trade unions was mainly the fact that employers are strongly recommended to make protective equipment, such as mouth masks, available at sectoral level, but not mandatory. The employers' organisations represented in the sub-committee have chosen to refer to the regional guidelines on this point. According to the Social Code, employers are obliged to identify risks inherent in work and to take appropriate material measures to remedy them. Where risks cannot be eliminated at source or can not be adequately mitigated by measures, methods or processes in the field of work organisation or by collective technical means, personal protective equipment shall be used, which must be made available by the employer at no cost to workers. I call on everyone, both employers and household helpers and customers, to do the most with respect for each other's health and to comply with all guidelines, so that domestic helpers can do their job in safe conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. There will undoubtedly be service cheque companies that respect the rules properly. But that's just it. After all, I still hear many cries from the sector that there is still no protection material for cleaning aid. They must take care of mouth masks and gloves themselves. They often also have a good relationship with their customers, who sometimes also provide protection material. I would like to respond to the question put by the trade unions, namely that this is the responsibility of everyone. Regional subsidies for cleaning services companies have also been increased to focus on security measures. After all, we all have an interest in keeping everyone healthy. This can only be done if people can work in healthy and safe conditions. That was a first point. A second point is that it remains a difficult sector. After all, the cleaning aids are going to clean at home. It is true that for the sake of privacy the inspection cannot carry out home checks. We also note, however, that cleaning companies sometimes use a euro bibbergeld to convince cleaning aids to go to work, even if people in those families are sick. It is then stated that those who are ill will be upstairs in a room and that there can be brushed downstairs. You also call on customers to comply strictly with all the directives. I have also received messages from customers who say they want to be very careful and want everyone to stay healthy, including the cleaning help with whom they have had a good connection for years. If they cancel the cleaning aid because someone in the family is ill or is waiting for a corona test, some customers will have to pay a fine of up to EUR 95 for canceling their cleaning aid at the last minute. To be honest, I would like to ask that the Joint Committee be convened again and that all these elements be included, so that much more is devoted to health and safety at work than at present, and that it be pointed out that the service cheque companies have received additional subsidies to deal with all these matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u58	Mrs Vanrobaeys, since you don't see the chronometer at home, it's a little more complicated!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u59	Minister, I would like to stress the importance of these workers who face a very serious health, economic and psychological situation. Their role is to go to clean up and, sometimes, to cook in people who are often elderly and isolated. When they get sick, they can't be replaced. As a result, the beneficiary no longer receives any visits. Or, fearing the disease, he asks the worker to stop coming. This causes a huge problem of isolation. As my colleagues have pointed out, these are often women. The government agreement provides for special attention to be paid to their place in this society. This sector offers a specific example. Then I understood that you were going to develop a mechanism to try to solve their year-end bonus problems. That's very good. However, what do you think of the cavalier attitude of the employers' organisation Federgon, who refuses to pay the unemployment supplements? Moreover, this is not going very well between the social partners. Efforts must therefore be made in this area. As my colleague said, subsidies have been granted. Indeed, social security served as a framework during the pandemic. We look forward to continuing to use this magnificent historical invention. We will obviously have to discuss how we will refinance it by other means. In any case, is it normal for an employers' federation not to take on its responsibilities? As far as health is concerned, you say you have received complaints. We must therefore continue the checks, because we have had returns. In addition, we have reached a stage where recommendations are not sufficient. We need to move on to controls and sanctions. There is no reason why they should be imposed in the private sphere and that too much flexibility should be exercised with the employers' world.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u60	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns the support package for the catering industry. There is confusion about the term "hospital services" and about which companies are supported, hotels, campsites, B&Bs, holiday homes, youth accommodations and tourist attractions. Can you give me a concrete answer on that? Can indoor children's playgrounds also stay open safely? What social support measures apply to temporary unemployment, end-of-year grants, holiday allowances and RSZ? What can be done until 2020? Is there a prospect of an extension beyond 2020? Can you get some clarity for 2021? Is there any contact from the government with the banking sector to support the catering industry and all related companies, for example by suspending the repayment of capital and interests and having them paid back later? That was also very important at the time of the banking crisis, when those opportunities were also provided. I think it's important. I would like more clarity on the protocols in force. Will they remain in force? There is also a lot of uncertainty about the amusement parks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u61	Madam President, Mrs Verhelst, these sectors have all been recognised as exceptionally hard hit by the measures taken in the field of temporary unemployment. The simplified procedure may also be used by suppliers of catering services as exceptionally hard hit undertakings until at least the end of this year. The renewal of these measures is under consideration. With regard to the new aid measures issued by the Minister for Labour, the main issue is the financing of the end-of-year premium. These are the companies covered by the joint committee for the hotel business in general, i.e. all places where drinks are ordered for payment, meals are served or accommodation is offered. These activities are also covered by the Ministerial Decision on the closure of the catering industry from 19 October to 19 November. Workers employed in such activities are explicitly excluded from the competence of the Joint Committee for Tourist Attractions, No. 333. The sectoral fund paying the end-of-year premiums is intended to receive a subsidy to finance the part of the end-of-year premium relating to the treated days by temporary unemployment. The relevant regulatory texts are in preparation. As far as holiday allowances are concerned, a general regulation is in force after an agreement has been reached in the National Labour Council. Another measure is a concession for the RSZ contributions from the third quarter of 2020. The legal texts on this matter are ready and were delivered to the Council of Ministers for decision. The catering sector and the tourism sector already enjoy a special COOVID-19 delay of RSZ payment. Companies which are not eligible for an automatic deferment of payment, such as the suppliers of the catering industry, could apply for a deferment of payment by electronic form until 31 July. A special COOVID-19 payment plan for RSZ contributions for the first and second quarters of the year was also made available in addition to the measure concerning the special COOVID-19 delay of RSZ payments. A draft law is pending in the Chamber to extend that measure to the third and fourth quarters of 2020. The question about the repayment of capital and interest does not concern my powers, but falls within the competence of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u62	So, Minister, a post-2020 plan is under consideration. That will have to be done very quickly. On the other hand, we hope, of course, that the COOVID-19 situation will also get under control very quickly. I see a great deal of effort being made and a great deal of work being done for a sector that has been severely affected, but we must also pay attention, for example, to the suppliers of the catering industry, who do not automatically receive a delay in payment. After all, some of them are as badly affected as the catering industry itself and cannot even organise a takeaway. They sometimes still have full freezers full of products that were only intended for the catering industry. I would like everyone to take a great deal of courage from the measures that are being implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u63	Question No 55010057C by Mrs Reuter is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u64	In February of this year, Mega World took over the 123 Blokker stores in Belgium, with more than 600 workers. A request for judicial reorganization was made last week, which, if not accepted, is likely to result in bankruptcy. Workers even fear for the payment of their wages. It would appear that the firm already has a debt of EUR 10 million to the State, due to VAT, taxes and unpaid social security contributions. On the Monday of my question, a union reported a suspicion of fraud at Mega World and more particularly at the head of its owner, Dirk Bron. It must be said that the latter has made several bankruptcies. He is suspected of fraud, fraud and money laundering by the courts of his country. One of the trade union's key transactions is the sending of several million euros from Mega World's caisses to companies located abroad, with at least interesting profiles. According to a journalist's survey, they have characteristics of ghost societies, i.e. companies with no employees and very little capital. This led to a complaint by the ACV Puls to the Antwerp Public Prosecutor's Office against the owner of Mega World. This would not be the first time a company has tried to raise funds to a parent company and has paid termination benefits from the Closing Fund. Minister, have you been informed of this suspicion of fraud and of the filing of a complaint in the margins of this judicial reorganization? Do you confirm the amount of EUR 10 million in debts to the State? What initiatives have you taken or intend to take to ensure that the company's funds will be used to pay termination benefits and will not be improperly sent to the parent company or to another country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u65	As you know, honourable Member, in the event of suspicion of this type of fraud, the courts of the judicial order are competent to receive and analyse such a complaint and to judge the possible existence of fraud. My administration in this context is not directly competent; nevertheless, I have been informed of this matter and I can assure you that the government will, at this particularly sensitive time, ensure that debts to the State and to the workers are indeed covered. The amount of EUR 10 million in debts to the State must be verified with my colleague the Minister of Finance in respect of the tax part and the Minister of Social Affairs in respect of the part of social contributions. The Business Closing Fund, as you know, intervenes in the event of closures. At the end of last week, the administration was able to find that no mention had yet been made to the Belgian Monitor and the Banque-carrefour des entreprises concerning the introduction by Mega World of a procedure for judicial reorganization. However, according to information received by the administration, an application for judicial reorganization was filed on 15 October last. It states that the Court of Malines was to rule on this application, in camera as you know, at a hearing scheduled for 28 October. As far as a request for judicial reorganization is concerned, it is not, as you know, a closure within the meaning of the Act of 26 June 2002, since the activity of the company does not cease in the event of a judicial reorganization. That is one of the objectives of this procedure. The question of assistance from the Enterprise Closing Fund is therefore not yet raised at this stage. If the reorganization procedure is not successful and Mega World's bankruptcy is to be declared, one or more trustee(s) will be appointed, as you know, to carry out bankruptcy operations. The trustee may have to verify the declared claims; and in addition, the administration will verify whether the conditions for intervention of the closure fund are met.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u66	Minister, thank you. I have addressed the issue of the closure of the company because of the question of the trust put by the unions for the moment, given the atmosphere in which the exchanges are taking place now, and given the fact that this company is totally assumed to have debts. It even boasts of having benefited from the VOCID measures to benefit from various deferrals of payments. All signals are red. I hear that the administration, in any case the inspection, will be careful. I really invite you to the utmost attention so that the rights of workers are respected in this complicated moment, and for the company, and for society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u67	Mr Minister, I obviously join my colleagues' congratulations and wish you the best in this new position. On behalf of my group, I would first like to express support for the measures taken to combat this terrible pandemic. The measures are sometimes extremely harsh, let us dare say, but our priority today must be to contain and reverse this pandemic and to do everything possible to enable hospitals and care institutions to hold on to our patients and care for them. The various governments have taken extremely harsh measures, as I was telling you: closing bars, restaurants and, moreover, in Brussels, all cultural places (museums, cinemas, theatres, concert halls). While the cultural sector has not even been able to recover from the first wave, current measures and prospects for strengthening them do not allow sufficient hope for a resumption of cultural activities. Artists, technicians and all employees in this highly impacted sector must continue to be supported. The law of 15 July 2020 improving the situation of workers in the cultural sector must, we believe, be at least prolonged. I imagine that the government will strive to create a real status as an artist, but in the urgency of this crisis and in the meantime, it will certainly be necessary to consider support measures. Are you considering extending this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u68	Minister, these last 72 hours have seen new, stricter measures for the use of cultural places. As a result, the arts, culture and event sectors are inevitably again impacted. Indeed, it is still hundreds of artists and technicians who have their performances cancelled and their work tool confiscated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u69	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I would also like to thank Mrs Leoni for her congratulations and her much-needed encouragement at this particularly complicated time. Your questions allow me to take stock of the workers in the cultural sector. As soon as I took office, I met with the workers in the sector. Like you, I am aware of the particularly difficult situation facing artists and technicians. I am talking about artists and technicians in a broad sense, since we know all the functions that are necessary and involved in cultural creation and production. I also heard testimony from people who struggled to obtain their rights. It is therefore quite naturally that I contacted ONEM to see how the situation could be improved. We have agreed with the federations representing the sector and workers in this sector to collect concrete cases to identify gaps and difficulties and, of course, to remedy them as quickly as possible. I have therefore asked the representatives of the sector to provide me with specific and concrete examples of the most problematic situations encountered. We have been working with the sector since I took office and we will continue in the next few days. It's a constant job. This is true with the cultural sector, but it is also true with the various sectors which are particularly affected. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to them for their presence and their constructive character, since, systematically, I have been able to meet interlocutors who came with proposals, with counter-proposals, with deaths to be taken in the short term but also with reflections on the medium and long term. It seems to me to have been mentioned earlier in response to Mrs Fonck's question. They discussed, in particular, the training of staff, both to remain active in the sector and to consider reorientation in other sectors less affected by the crisis and its consequences. With regard to temporary unemployment, I have asked ONEM to continue to apply flexibility in the evidence requested to attest to a cancelled contract. We know that this is one of the difficulties encountered by actors and actors in the cultural sector – in any case, it was. So I really plead with ONEM that we can work flexibly. With regard to the measures provided for in the Act of 15 July 2020, the ONEM has currently processed 188 applications for unemployment benefits. In 185 cases, entitlement to full unemployment benefits was granted. The three refusals were based on the fact that the workers could not provide evidence of benefits located in the artistic sector. All the complete files introduced by the payment agencies have been processed by the ONEM within the prescribed time limit, which, as you know, is a maximum of one month. In order to have retroactive effect, the application for allowances must in principle reach the ONEM within the statutory time limit of two months. Taking into account the date of publication of the law, the ONEM decided that the deadline for submission of applications would take place at the earliest on 27 July of this year. Furthermore, if the payment body finds that it will not be able to submit a complete file within the time limits, it may inform the ONEM of the identity of the worker and of the date from which benefits are claimed. In that case, the period of introduction referred to above shall be extended by one month. Finally, where a file is nevertheless submitted outside the time limits, the worker may request that account be taken of the circumstances of the current crisis in order to obtain a derogation from the applicable time limit. I will ask the ONEM to be flexible in this area as well. The worker must submit the application for unemployment benefits to his payment agency, which is responsible for verifying whether the file is complete and for bringing it in its turn with the ONEM. The payment agency then awaits payment authorization from the ONEM. It may decide to take the "risk" of indemnifying the worker before receiving such authorization. In the event of a subsequent refusal, the payment will then remain at his expense, unless he asks the worker to repay the undue allowances. Of course, I am aware of the difficulties during this period in being able to reach payment agencies, but I must note that they are doing a remarkable job in dealing with all applications for unemployment benefits. It is largely thanks to them that the workers were able to receive compensation. While some difficulties have been pointed out on the ground, we are working with both the ONEM and the payment agencies to minimize these problems and to ensure that payments can be made as quickly as possible. The measures of the law of 15 July run until 31 December, but with the resumption of the epidemic and the need to give perspective to the sector, I have proposed to the government to extend the measures. A decision will be taken next week with a crisis package for this sector and all the sectors concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would like to begin with the final element of your answer. It is important for the sector to know when it can count on support. Originally, we had the idea that the legislative text, which we discussed in Parliament, should continue to apply until March. Certainly the event sector is a seasonal sector. October to March is already a difficult period, which he can otherwise bridge through the summer, but that is not the case now. I'm also in contact with people from that sector myself. They make a lot of constructive proposals. Mostly they want to work. As long as the epidemic is raging, this cannot or to a lesser extent can be done because of the health of citizens. The government will then have to provide sufficient support. With regard to temporary unemployment, last summer there was still some perspective and the people in the sector got some jobs again, but that perspective is now completely gone. It is difficult, however, to take account of the conditions laid down, and to prove cancelled contracts within specified periods, in order to obtain temporary unemployment for the new cancelled contracts. I am therefore pleased that you, together with the RVA, are looking at how the scheme can be handled smoothly. The same applies in order to receive ordinary unemployment benefits. This is the whole problem in the sector: one is paid only for the assignment itself and clients forget to pay for the preparations that come with it. As a result, the people concerned are quickly deprived of their income or can only count on an income below the poverty line. Thank you for the initiatives to provide support and perspective to the sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u71	Mr Minister, the file is incredibly close to my heart. I understand from your reply that that is also true of you. It was also important for your party in the past. Over the past few weeks, I've gathered a lot of testimonials that came spontaneously to me or following my call. Well, it shows that there are enormous problems in the field with the law of 15 July as regards access to ordinary unemployment. The number of applications approved goes from 39 to 68 and now 180. That remains very little. There are several reasons for this. In the beginning, they had no knowledge of that law at all. The deadline for the application for retroactivity, namely 26 September, was suddenly very quickly, because they had no knowledge of it. At that time, there were only 39 applications. The deadline of 26 September is legal, I am aware, but it is extremely important to show flexibility in this area. I also hear that the payout settings are about to be able to process all the requests. All these elements point out that we must be very flexible in this respect, so that those concerned can effectively recognise the right we have created for them. One of my questions hasn't been answered yet. The RVA works with a list, but I wonder what that list is based on. In fact, in the context of the corona crisis, I have received testimonies from people who have received the Flemish cultural premium, but who, for example, are refused by the RVA on the basis of the nature of their activities. For those people, too, I would like to urge you to look closely at the activities involved. It is very strange for people if they do not receive support from the Flemish level and from the federal level because of the nature of their activities. It's a very important file for us. I really think it is important to tackle all the problems on the ground. I hear you're working on that and you're listening to the sector very carefully. It's about a lot more people than the 180 people with the water on their lips.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u72	Madam President, Minister, we have already had a lot of opportunity here to discuss the dramatic situation of workers in the cultural sector. First of all, on behalf of my group, I would like to stress your willingness to move towards relaxation or, in any case, to send a signal to ONEM in favour of relaxation, even if this term does not seem appropriate to me in so far as it induces the granting of a favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u73	Simplification.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u74	I guess so. In any case, many are in distress. The example of those who find themselves unable to fill their fridge is often cited. [[But there are also cases of suicide.]] So the situation is really problematic. I'm not a psychologist. As you know, I was a cashier at Aldi's. But, in any case, to hear psychologists, not having a perspective even in the medium term does not really help. We therefore call for an extension of all the measures that have been taken. In addition, I agree with my colleague Mrs Willaert on the number of applications. So the 39 requests that Ms. Muylle referred to had already alerted us. Today, this figure has increased somewhat. Nevertheless, it seems minimal to us, given the information coming from the ground. This raises the question of whether more assistance should be given to the ONEM to respond to requests. There is, in any case, still something to be done at this level. Before concluding my speech, I would like to take this opportunity to greet all the workers in this sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u75	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers. I had no doubt that you were aware of the drama that artists are currently experiencing. I've known the cultural community for 20 years. It is a broad environment that includes musicians, visualists, actors, technicians, etc. All these men and women make culture live and bring some magic into this dark life, for now. Despite the constant reorganization of structures, cascading cancellations, no recovery is in sight. So I was very pleased to hear you say that now there would be more flexibility and that the important measures that have been put in place would be extended. Everyone hopes that 2021 will be a better year. But we must now let the workers affected by the measures to combat the pandemic know that emergency aid will be extended as long as it takes, but also that we will be at their side to put in place measures adapted to artists, with a real status that protects and emancipates workers in the cultural sector. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u76	Minister, I am not going to go back to what has been said about the number of requests and the proactive attitude you have towards the ONEM. I think this can help both the sector, but also the ONEM, to work more efficiently in the processing of cases, which I imagine is very complex for all these workers at ONEM. Furthermore, on the issue of risk-taking by payment agencies, I wonder whether the signal should not be clearer as to what this risk-taking means. Indeed, I asked you the question. It is important, in the end, to be able to get a very quick answer, since we know the problem of processing the file. And so we can say to ourselves: we pay, we anticipate the payment, we will recover it after if necessary. But should this be the responsibility of the organization, which will be perhaps a little more tiring? I know it's all very complicated, but I think there's an important structural response here. Maybe you want to replicate that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u77	If you may, Madam Chair – Madam Member of Parliament, in this case. First of all, the phrase 'taking risks', I used it with quotes. And then in general, as has been said, there are indeed urgent measures to be taken, and some have already been taken. For these urgent measures, we must take into account the specific nature of the sector and these types of professions, because sometimes there are also general measures which are not properly applied, or in any case as effective as for other professions or sectors, in the cultural sector. And this is also one of the returns that was made to me by the representatives of the sectors. We must of course, as has been mentioned by either of you, be able to give opportunities to the whole sector, and of course to all those who make it live and who make us enjoy it. But, I think, it is true in this sector in particular, it is true also at other times with other sectors, that we really need to be able to take account of the specificities of the sector. We will return, I hope as soon as possible, since this would mean that we would have emerged from this crisis, with the work on the status of the artist. But more urgently, in any case in the short term, and in a short-term, in any case I hope, to take account of the sector's specific characteristics for the aid measures that we can put on the table in the coming days and weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u78	Thank you. That's reassuring. So I'm just finishing with those decisions that you're talking about, coming up next week. In my opinion, they are very much expected. At any rate, I would allow myself to relay what is required. We have always asked for a 'white year' and to go until March 2021 at least. Now we know that, in fact, it will be beyond. It will be July, September, some already speak of 2022. I think giving a clear signal is also giving a clear signal about the period during which we will help the sector. On the issues of neutralisation, i.e. access to the renewal of the status or access to the protected status pre-COVID, I really think that the period of neutralisation of the period VOCID must be extended to allow both to be able to breathe a bit. Thank you. I imagine that we will be able to discuss it again within 15 days, when decisions have been taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u79	I'm really sorry, but we're gonna have to close here. We shall therefore resume with Mrs Lanjri's question, within fifteen days, on the second Tuesday morning of the month.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u80	My question No. 55010134C, but also Question No 55010317C, which I put together with Mrs Vanrobaeys, cannot wait two weeks. We need that answer right now. I would ask for a short answer from the Minister, without asking the question, or for the answer to be given in writing by tomorrow. That's good for me, too. We really need to get the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u81	Mrs Lanjri, like what we have already done, for those who wish to give priority to the written question, we can propose that the written questions be sent – I will go around with the colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u82	If I may, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am of course committed to ensuring that the answers come to you as soon as possible. It is true that, in relation to Mrs Lanjri's question in particular, the subject is topical. The written reply will be sent to you without delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u83	All right, please let me know what questions to turn into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u84	I would suggest that my question No. 55010134C and Question No 55010317C will be converted into written questions and answered immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u85	Questions Nos 55010142C and 55010162C by Mrs Samyn as well as question No 55010299C by Mrs Fonck are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u86	Madam President, as I said, I pledge that the answers will be transmitted without delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u87	Madam President, I would like to put my combined questions to the President-in-Office. 5010158C and 55010237C and my question No. Have 55010159c converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u88	Madam President, I thought I had the floor. For me, my question is, in particular, no. 55010278C of interest. We just thanked the payout settings for all the work they're doing. I believe that there is work to be done to reduce the lengthening of the autumn holiday. I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u89	Questions Nos. 55010224C, 55010245C and 55010251C are also converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u90	Madam President, I think you've forgotten someone else. Madam President, my question No. 55010186C may be moved to the next meeting. To my question No. I would like a written reply from 55010187C.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-27-55-commissie-ic290x.u91	Thank you, Mrs Willaert.
