ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u1	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55001689C) by Mrs Matz, (Doc. 5501739C) by Mrs Daems, (Doc. Mr Kir, Mr Kir and Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir, Mr Kir,
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u2	Mr President, my colleague tabled a similar oral question on the future asylum centre in Bilzen yesterday before the deadline. I can prove that on the basis of the shipping status of that e-mail. Questions on the same subject are fairly merged. It seems logical to me that this should happen today. My question is now at the bottom of the agenda. Since it is on the same subject as Mrs Ponthier's question, I would ask you to ask this question now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u3	That's right, Mr. Raskin. Questions are of course always merged when they are on the same subject, unless the initial question was converted into a written question. That's gonna make the clutch difficult. The Secretariat lists the questions in the order in which they were submitted. That's why your question is at the back. I suspect that Mr Rigot will now ask the same question, because his questions are on the same subject as Mrs Matz's converted question. I understand your question, Mr Raskin, but everyone must agree with the change in order. Other committee members will have to wait for their question. That is the perpetual debate on the flexibility which the committee wants to show in this area. If I give you that opportunity, I must first of all give Mr Rigot the opportunity to ask his question about the lack of capacity for asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u4	Mr President, I can only say that if I was linked to another speaker during the previous legislature and I could not be there, I was unlucky. However, the link was made on the basis of the subject. That is why I propose the following.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u5	The discussion is not about the link that exists. The problem is that the other questioner is not present. In that case, it is difficult to reverse the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u6	Mr President, I have every sympathy for Mrs Ponthier. That's not the point. However, when I had the responsibility to be present in committee, to ask a linked question, and could not be, my question lapsed. I wouldn't have had any luck.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u7	Mr President, for all our understanding, we have no problem with the question being asked first. Is the problem not, however, that the conversion to the written question took place before Mr Raskin tabled his question and so the link could never happen, because Mrs Ponthier's original question was no longer on the agenda or on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u8	No, the question was already on it. So the link should have happened. So, Mr Raskin, you have a point in that regard. If the committee agrees, I shall first give the floor to Mr Rigot for his questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u9	Mr. President, Minister, we are all aware of the current network situation with an occupancy rate of more than 96% within the Fedasil network. It reaches 100% in some regions or even exceeds the maximum occupancy limit. Minister, what are the next openings? What are the occupancy rates of the various collective centres, including emergency centres? What is the occupancy rate of local hosting initiatives? Their role is essential to ensure the transition in the network. Are you planning something, I hope, to replace precarious reception such as the use of tents and campsites? What type of population currently occupies these tents? What is their occupancy rate? What is your plan of action for the future in order to redress the situation and ensure a place for all those entitled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u10	Mr. Rigot, you asked two questions. Is this the first question on saturation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u11	Indeed, there are two questions. The first concerns network saturation and the second concerns the consequences of network saturation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u12	Mr Rigot, on saturation, as of 1 December, the distribution of residents by province was as follows: 7.4% in Brussels....
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u13	Minister, I understand the confusion because the questions were asked more or less at the same time, but you answer my next question. If you want, I can ask the other question while you're looking for the answer to it. Minister, the other question is also about the same issue that is relevant. Currently, the network is almost saturated. It has 25,700 places, 5,500 more places than in 2009. Fedasil makes every effort, with its partners, to open as soon as possible the necessary places to guarantee the reception for all. Despite all the motivation and energy, the fast pace is detrimental to the quality of reception: poor infrastructure, insufficient human resources both in terms of number and training, poor communication with citizens and with the municipalities concerned, concentration of structures in certain regions. The teams are exhausted. The feeling of impotence is beginning to be well present on the ground. They are not the only ones who are exhausted. There is also exhaustion at the municipal and provincial levels. Some provinces, including the province of Liège, have to cope with a substantial increase in reception facilities in their territory and respond to urgent needs. I understand that the city of Liège could accommodate 3,000 new collective squares by 1 February. This situation, if confirmed, is particularly complex, whereas in parallel, the municipalities are concentrated on the winter plan to the populations in precarious situation, and especially the homeless. Can you inform me about the current provincial allocation plan? What is the balance by province? Can you confirm or overturn me the number of places that should open in the province of Liège and, in particular, in Liège-ville by the beginning of February. At the heart of my question, there is also the will to be attentive to the well-being of the teams on the ground, if we can still talk about well-being given the situation. Are you considering using a partnership with the private sector as it was in 2015 to relieve those who give the best of themselves? Have you planned a communication plan for citizens? It is difficult, as we know, to have the openings of centres readily accepted by the population. There is a need to facilitate the integration of beneficiaries and the acceptance of these openings. Will you support provinces, municipalities and CPAS that contribute more than others to the effort?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u14	Mr. Rigot, I'm going to give you the figures on December 1st, by province. In Brussels, 7%; Antwerp, 12%; Flemish Brabant, 5%; West Flanders, 5%; East Flanders, 5%; Limburg, almost 13%; Walloon Brabant, 3%; Hainaut, 11%; Liège, 13%; Luxembourg, 10% and Namur, 12%. The agency is always looking at different leads in different places. I do not want to communicate about new sites that take into account the reception before talking to the local authorities, until there is a final decision on this. At the end of 2019, the Council of Ministers approved various measures to speed up the asylum procedure and increase reception capacity. One of these measures was the publication of two public procurements involving private actors. No decision has been taken at present on the award of the public contract, because we still need a number of opinions, particularly on budgetary matters. During the opening of a new site, a communication plan is still planned: information on opening, distribution of information to residents, creation of a Facebook page for residents, a local web page and a local e-mail address for direct communication with residents. These steps are always carried out in consultation with the municipality. The appointment of an "external contact" employee is also foreseen as soon as a centre is opened. It is responsible for contacts with neighbours, handling complaints, managing the various local channels of communication and organising activities that promote the encounter between citizens and asylum seekers. For this purpose, municipalities which have a collective reception structure in their territory receive financial compensation by ministerial decree. It should be used to finance the need for investment in administration, but also the necessary measures in schools, the police, etc. The next centre to be opened will be that of Coxide, at the end of the month, with 300 places. For the rest, yesterday for the first time the figures for network saturation decreased by 2%. It is true that the administrations made much more decisions during the months of November and December. Access to the public market requires a rather complicated procedure. However, we have received some answers, not very many, but enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u15	Minister, I understand the difficulties you face every moment and throughout the network. But the figures are there, demonstrating what I mentioned earlier, namely an unbalanced effort between the provinces, more marked in the provinces of Limburg and Liège, with 13%, as well as in the provinces of Luxembourg and Namur. I understand that it is difficult to find sites, but we must also take into account the fast pace of openings which leads to an acceleration of the obligations of the communes – schooling, civil status, support, integration, etc. This is an exceptional situation which, in my view, requires exceptional support for these communes and provinces, and more. Priorities must be of course to ensure that those who are entitled to them are welcomed and that the well-being of staff is taken into account. I believe, despite all your efforts, that this is not easy to implement today and will need to be corrected. Another priority is that there is solidarity between all the municipalities and provinces, for which I can only mention the distribution plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u16	Mr Rigot, as far as your first question is concerned, in the coming months the agency is planning to open reception centres in different cities. At the end of the month, it will be in Coxide, in February in Beveren and Herbemont and in June, a probable opening in Bilzen. The Agency also hopes that the award of public contracts to private operators will increase reception capacity. The Agency is in continuous search of quality reception places. As soon as the state of the reception network allows, it will be the most precarious reception places like the tents that will be removed. As a result of the strengthening of the asylum services, it is anticipated that the length of stay in these centres will be reduced and, consequently, the occupancy rate will decrease. In addition, the Agency continues to look for reception places to ensure a place for all entitled persons. As far as the occupancy rate is concerned, it still fluctuates a little, but for the first time it has decreased. For months, occupancy rates were close to saturation, reaching almost 100%. When I started, that rate was 97%. That hasn't changed much. You also know that the fact that arrivals have to stay in reception centres for so long does not help us. That is why we have chosen an integrated approach by creating places at the same time, but also by taking action within administrations to make more decisions. If you look at the CGRA figures, for example, you will find that there have been far more decisions in the past months, and that is how it should be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u17	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We know that the stay in the reception centres is still very long, as you said, because the procedure takes time. That is why I am of the opinion that tents and campsites should be reserved for the least vulnerable, while at the same time ensuring that the length of stay is shorter. One could make a permanent shift of audiences who, after a certain period of time in these tents and campsites, would evolve towards a more stable structure and, on the other hand, bring new audiences into these tents and campsites. In this way, I think that we would also avoid tragedies in terms of well-being and at the psychological level among the beneficiaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u18	Madam Minister, at a previous meeting in November, you answered a number of questions concerning the opening of a temporary asylum centre in Bilzen. That answer left me somewhat unsatisfied. That is why I would like to put a number of questions to you again. You indicated at the time that the location in Bilzen was offered to Fedasil in September. Who offered it, on what day and in what way? Can you give me an overview of all the contacts that have been in this file over the last few months between the city of Bilzen and your services? I would have liked to have an overview of all the data, including the contacts and the means of communication. Who owns the building today to serve as an asylum center? As everyone has noticed, the building has been severely damaged by the arson. Among other things, the roof has to be repaired. These urban operations require an environmental permit. Do you know if that permit has been applied for yet? If so, by whom? Is there an agreement between Fedasil and the Red Cross on the operation of the asylum centre? If so, what does the agreement provide for in the event that the opening of the centre must be postponed indefinitely, as is the case here? In that case, should the Red Cross seek a temporary alternative for the 140 involved? At the end of November, it was still unclear when the site would be operational again. Do you have a better view of that already? When should the temporary center open? Finally, do I have a question that remained unanswered last time: how large is the outdoor space that the residents will be able to access?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u19	Mr Raskin, I have a slight feeling of being on a committee of inquiry. I do not see the point, but I will answer your questions anyway. The owner of the property contacted the agency by e-mail in the first week of September. That owner, and that's no secret, is still Jan Noé. As regards contacts with the city of Bilzen, negotiations were concluded at the end of October. Then on 24 October I contacted the mayor by phone to inform him. I believe that the negotiations were concluded the night before. Then there were several contacts between the Red Cross and Bilzen. On 28 October, there was a start-up meeting with the mayor and various city services to present the functioning of the Red Cross and to make arrangements regarding communication to the population. On November 11th there was telephone contact with the mayor following the fire. In the meantime, of course, the Red Cross has had contacts with police and schools, among others. On November 18th there was another meeting with the mayor and the city services to prepare the info evening of November 21st. It took place on November 21st. On 27 November there was a meeting to follow up the info evening and to plan an info evening with different positions. On 7 and 8 December there was an information market. The centre manager also had discussions with the police, the local consultation platform and the schools at various times. Neither my services nor the Red Cross Flanders have knowledge of the urban activities that the owner of the property would or would not have done. There is indeed an agreement between Fedasil and the Red Cross and both sides still assume that reception will be organised on the same site. That agreement has, of course, been suspended, as the Red Cross cannot currently operate the building. As mentioned above, we are awaiting the opportunity to open the site. Very special and bizarre things have happened in Bilzen. Another bizarre case is the arson. I would actually be more concerned about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u20	Of course, like you, I am also concerned about the fire, Madam Secretary. That is why I am asking you for information. I did the same thing in Bilzen City Council. We were faced with a decision taken over the heads of people. I have said before that our city must accept its responsibility, but if one does not communicate or give information to the people, then it will drink and frustration will only be strengthened. That's why I'm asking questions. I represent a number of people who have a lot of questions, who are not answered or barely answered. I also note that I have little explanation about the agreement, but as a Bilzenaar and as a representative of a number of people from my city, I will continue to ask you the necessary questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u21	Madam Secretary, at the end of November the press reported that the planned closed institution for 144 illegal immigrants in Zandvliet was being postponed. That dossier is part of the master plan for the closed centres approved in 2017. According to the Cabinet, no final phase should be expected for 2024. The reason given is that the container units of the former cell complex in Tilburg would not be suitable. However, this contrasts with the earlier statements of former Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration Theo Francken, who in May last year said that "the cells in Tilburg are not so old and therefore comply with contemporary standards." Madam Secretary, what problem does the container units in question suddenly fail to meet today? How many new closed centres for forced return have been added since the approval of the master plan in May 2017? How many additional places have been added to the existing closed return centres since that date? What is the overall capacity of these closed return centres at present?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u22	Mr Van Langenhove, I do not know what has been said about this in the past. When I received the file, I had to conclude, together with my colleague, that the transfer of the containers from Tilburg is technically virtually unfeasible and that it would also be a very expensive affair, as only one firm can actually do so. It therefore appears that the financial and economic solution is not the most appropriate for the creation of the new closed centre. The entry into service of the containers would entail very high costs for transport and the adjustments that should be made. For example, the plumbing must be completely refurbished and the containers are not compliant in terms of insulation and energy. Minister Geens' cell has built a whole file of technical sheets on this. There were also questions about the stability of the subsurface in Zandvliet. In addition, a building had to be built to act as a connector. So that would be a very expensive case that would drag on for a long time. Poles had to be slammed in the grounds, the plumbing had to be rebuilt and there had to be connecting roads. The containers must be placed on a stable surface and then all must be connected via a building. For a closed center that would certainly have been a problem. Meanwhile, one closed center has been added as part of the master plan. That closed center is located in Holsbeek, which used to be an open center. It was opened in May 2019 and has 50 places, exclusively for women. Since 2015 we have created 180 places. The current capacity in the closed centres is 635 places plus 28 places in the residential units in 127 bis in Steenokkerzeel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u23	Madam Secretary, it is clear that there was some confusion in the communication about that former cell complex in Tilburg. Indeed, I understand that a number of things make this more practical, technical and, apparently, economically difficult. I would also have liked to have heard the exact figures from the study on cost. Madam Secretary, I take your word for it. It sounds very credible. In connection with the master plan for forced return, it seems to me that few of the ambitions were fulfilled. Almost ten years ago it was warned that many more places were needed. When I see that there is also saving in terms of forced return and closed return centres, I am very concerned about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u24	Madam Minister, I will return to the plenary session of 28 November 2019, in which we discussed the distribution plan for boat migrants. The N-VA was obviously against the plan. Under the impulse of the French-speaking liberals and CD&V, the plan was not surprisingly approved by the extreme left. So they asked for even more migrants to fly into this country, when we really did do all our part. You also acknowledged this and pointed out that the lack of a policy meant that you had to open up additional reception places at a rapid pace in order to cope with the high influx of asylum seekers. You also mentioned that you are also working on the cause, especially the increased inflow and the delayed outflow. This can be done in many ways, for example by increasing the capacity of the DVZ and the repatriation centres. During the hearing we held in December 2019 on family reunification, the DVD clearly indicated that its capacity in this area is insufficient. In this respect, we can certainly do additional business. Madam Minister, I would have liked to hear from you exactly what you are going to do to limit the influx of asylum seekers into this country and to increase the outflow so that the number is reduced effectively and we do not have to open centres everywhere and where you even provide very expensive shelter, such as hotels. In which areas, with what additional budgets and with what policy are you currently engaged in in this area? How does this relate to the additional resources for care? You asked for an extra budget precisely for that. How much are we talking about in total? How many extra seats did you add? Exactly how many resources have been committed to dive in and accelerate the outflow? Perhaps you could explain the policy figures in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u25	Mrs Van Camp, I do not know how the word 'hotels' entered your questionnaire. As far as I know, there are no plans to open hotels. A government in current affairs cannot pursue a new policy, which you are actually suggesting in your question. By leaving your partymate in December 2018, when I had to take over the department again, there was a concrete reception problem. So I immediately made a plan of action to solve the problem. So I was and still am forced to create additional reception capacity. As you know, I have asked Parliament for the necessary derogation from the provisional twelfths arrangements every quarter. The increase in reception places is necessary in order to guarantee the right of reception for all eligible persons. The structural problem is the low outflow, resulting from the savings that have been made by the asylum authorities and which have made the pendulum go crazy. I have recruited additional staff in two stages and have thus been able to restore the strength of the DVZ, but also of the Commissioner-General (CGVS) and the Council for Foreign Affairs (RvV). The effects of these measures are becoming increasingly felt. A lot more decisions are being made. Some of the delays have already been made up, but this exercise has not yet been completed. As regards increasing the staffing framework, in 2019 this was a very difficult exercise, but it has proved possible within the budgetary margins. It should be made clear that the investments needed for reception are multiple of the investments needed to increase the decision-making capacity of the asylum authorities. I hope that lessons will be drawn from this and that we will avoid the dismantling of our administrations in the future. We have opted for an integrated approach. In other words, we have not only focused on increasing reception capacity but also on increasing the output of the asylum authorities. There are also a number of various detachment campaigns in progress. They're always very focused. Think of the Palestinians. These campaigns are paying off. Furthermore, there is always a short play on the ball via social media when we detect something and a new influx into our country is triggered by false information. The integrated approach also involves monitoring the situation in asylum authorities and reception. For the rest, although they are independent bodies, such as the Commissioner-General, the number of decisions is also increased. It is also being considered whether an increase in efficiency is possible. A number of measures have also been taken, in consultation with all authorities, to further increase the outflow and to prevent the abuse of the asylum system. I am referring to the Dublin cases which are hiding and reemerging, but also to those who have already been granted refugee status in another country and have come to our country. These measures were financed within the existing operating resources and do not require an additional budget. The situation is now a little better under control. The first signs are that the increased number of decisions is starting to bear fruit. As long as there is no new government, I will have to maintain this effort. I hope that sooner or later someone will be able to pursue a new policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u26	Madam Secretary, we already share the hope that we will have someone new in the department. You say that the first signs are that your policy begins to bear fruit after a year. I did not ask for yet another soothing or denial of the problem, I asked you for exact numbers: euros, places, efforts, precise measures. You didn't give any of that. You say: many more decisions, we are catching up, the output is up. We don't see that in the numbers. You deny that the problem is not getting under control. I hope you're still doing what you need to do. One thing you have done is tackle the problem of reception, in particular the abuse of the Dublin cases and of those who had already applied for a statute elsewhere in Europe. There's no legal basis for that. Fortunately, our colleagues Darya Safai and Theo Francken have provided the legal basis for this. Hopefully we will be able to approve them in committee. That is one thing that has been dealt with in a legally correct manner. In the meantime, perhaps you can focus on tackling an increased output that is not limited to distress campaigns that have always taken place, but really a new policy that is actually paying off, not in terms of words but in terms of numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u27	Mrs Van Camp, allow me to point out that the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of the European Parliament, you are not a newcomer, which provides that numerical material may be requested in writing, but not to that extent in oral questions. I have also told you once again that a new policy by a government in current affairs is not possible. However, we are pushing budgets for a better approach and an optimization of cooperation with the asylum authorities. The number of decisions taken and the degree of protection are published on the CGVS website. If you are so interested, which is a good thing, you can find all the information there. Indeed, more decisions have been taken since two months, as you can also find in those figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u28	Madam Secretary, rest assured, we are following these figures very closely. That is why we are not reassured. The influx remains too high. You can deny that, but since everyone can consult those figures, everyone can see how it is effective. You say that you cannot pursue a new policy, but you can push budgets. In subsequent questions, I will return to that, and I will show that you have just made the wrong decisions. Then that misunderstanding can also be solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u29	Mrs Van Camp, I am not going to answer that anymore, I will give my opinion later. It is remarkable that you are now concerned, but were not at all concerned by a satsation of 98% when your N-VA colleague was in that department, under whose policies the services were undermanned and the treatment period increased from six to eighteen months. However, moving insight is always positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u30	Madam Minister, I would like to remind you that at that time we were experiencing a European refugee crisis which raised figures in all countries. We were really in a crisis at the time, and it is very strange that you are shaking no now. At the moment, however, we are seeing an increased influx in our country, while the influx in the other European countries is much lower. The figures for this can be checked by anyone. You can hide behind it as much as you want. I'll tell you more. At the time, this also caused us difficulties, but we did take the necessary measures within the government with which we had to work. Nothing prevents you from doing the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to be flexible in the allocation of speaking time for questions. However, our time is limited, while there are a lot of oral questions on the agenda today. Next questions I won't let run any longer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u32	You're asking for discipline.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u33	Voila!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u34	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to talk to you about the hundreds of Palestinian asylum seekers from Gaza present in the reception centres in Tournai and Mouscron. These people have been waiting a year and a half for their files to be examined, in vain. Instead, there are echoes of the fact that you would like to remove them from refugee status. These people are so desperate that they want to start a hunger strike. In early November 2019, the Gaza Strip was bombed by Israel for several days. Since 2007, the two million Palestinians living there have been subjected to collective punishment because of a total blockade. On a daily basis, residents are faced with power outages, a shortage of drinking water and enormous difficulties in accessing health care. Fundamental rights and freedoms are also threatened by the authoritarian practice of the Gazaoui power. Minister, do you really intend to withdraw refugee status from the Palestinians? What do you intend to do to speed up delays in asylum proceedings?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u35	Mr President, Madam Minister, on 27 November, I asked you about the opinion of the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA) on Palestinian asylum seekers. At the time, you mentioned an in-depth study indicating an improvement in the situation. So I read this so-called in-depth study, which I doubt, despite all the respect I have for the CGRA staff. Indeed, a large number of references come from Wikipedia. In fact, this study is quite selective. For example, she did not mention Oxfam data, which in 2018 recalled that the unemployment rate in Gaza was 52% (74% for women and 69% for young people). Nor does it mention that 97% of the groundwater is unfit for consumption and that 46% of the medicines essential for health care are lacking. In 2015, a report of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD) stated that Gaza would be unbearable by 2020, following the embargo that has been imposed for thirteen years now. We are in 2020, and it can be noted that the situation is much worse than the report imagined. Another recent study by the Foreign Litigation Council (CCE) states that the United Nations Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA) is currently operational in Gaza. The underfunded United Nations agency, however, struggles to provide Palestinian refugees in Gaza, about 70% of the population, with the necessary goods. Today, more than one million people in Gaza depend on this aid, compared to only 80,000 in 2000. Finally, the Foreign Litigation Council affirms that a return is possible for the Gazans. Yet the return to Gaza seems to be a real obstacle. Indeed, it is necessary for the Egyptian authorities to allow the Palestinians to pass through their territory, which they only accept when the Rafah crossing point is open. In addition, a Hamas pass is also required to pass to Rafah. Minister, on what sources are these CGRA studies based on to say that the situation in Gaza has changed to the point that it can no longer be equated with collective punishment giving rise to subsidiary protection for the Palestinians in Gaza, seeking asylum in our territory? Are humanitarian organizations in Gaza consulted to prepare such a study? If not, why? When this kind of study claims that the return to Gaza is possible, have its authors become aware of any coordination between Belgium, the Egyptian authorities and Hamas?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u36	Mr President, Mrs Dedonder, Mr Moutquin, on the analysis of the conflict in Gaza, it is not up to me or even to the asylum authorities (CCRA and CCE) to make a political analysis. In accordance with Belgian law, the examination and assessment of applications for asylum is the responsibility of independent bodies, primarily the CGRA, and in the event of an appeal, the CCE. It is therefore up to these bodies to assess whether there is a need for protection for people from Gaza. This assessment is made in the light of the definitions provided by law and international regulations. Since these bodies are independent, it would be inappropriate to make our own assessment in their place. For more information, please visit the CGRA website for the Gaza situation report, and the CCE website for recent arrests of persons from Gaza. The current policy of the CGRA and the current jurisprudence of the CCE make it clear that the situation in Gaza can still be considered problematic, but is not such as to lead to the granting of protection status to any person from Gaza. Each individual's situation is assessed individually and thoroughly. In some cases, a status is granted; in other cases, a refusal decision is taken. With regard to the withdrawal or cessation of refugee status of Palestinians from the Gaza Strip, I have received an opinion from CGRA, which my office is still studying. With regard to processing times, I have focused on strengthening the staff of asylum bodies in order to speed up the process as much as possible. Thus, in the Council of Ministers on 15 February and 14 November 2019, asylum bodies were given the opportunity to recruit additional staff in order to increase their decision-making capacity and, consequently, to guarantee the right to faster processing of asylum applications. In total, these are approximately 211 part-time equivalents distributed between the Agency, CGRA and the CEC. It is true, Mrs Dedonder, that during my visit to Mouscron, people told me of their astonishment at having to stay in the reception centre for so long. According to them, they had been informed of faster processing of their files. I think they received false information. It's the same for those who came from El Salvador. I talk to people when I visit. They are surprised not to be taken immediately to a house or apartment. I do not know who informed them, because the procedure provides for them to be given a reception. These people are victims of longer transition times. Indeed, the number of months waiting to consider their asylum application has been multiplied by two or three times.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u37	Minister, people are indeed surprised. I want to say that this is a little logical, when you wait more than a year before you get a response from the Aliens Office. In this case, as in others, time seems to them long. It is a good thing that the increase in staff will reduce delays. A lot of people are welcomed in the centres of Tournai and Mouscron. I would therefore always like to draw attention to the need not to mobilise too many people at the same time in order to avoid too much complications in terms of integration. As far as I am concerned, I am therefore in favour of better integration by reducing the number of people welcomed in order to take care of them more precisely and more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u38	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear your argument about the independence of the CGRA. This independence is indeed useful, although one may wonder whether this independence has always been respected in the past. If I'm not mistaken, the CGRA is under your supervision. When I read the studies that are supposed to be objective that are argued with links from Wikipedia, as a parliamentarian, I can only question myself, in view of the decision and the importance it has on the lives of some people. More generally, what ultimately binds the various ministers or their different work? For example, on the Foreign Affairs website, travel to Gaza is not recommended for security purposes. And you explained that you were going to organize deterrent campaigns in Gaza. I feel like we're ignoring a reality that's catastrophic. In conclusion, I would like to quote the Israeli journalist, Gideon Levy, who talks about a real hell on earth and a dramatic situation far worse than the one imagined in the 2015 UN report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u39	Minister, since my election, I have repeatedly claimed my parliamentary right to visit closed centres. The right of parliamentary visit within a closed centre is based on Articles 38 and 48 of the Royal Decree of 4 May 1999 laying down the regime and rules of operation applicable to places of detention for foreigners situated in Belgian territory. This right of access is extremely important in order to be able to grasp the reality of the conditions of detention in closed centres and to participate in the necessary observation and control of these federal structures. To extend this approach, and while the Fedasil centres are, as has been recalled today, energized by the lack of places in the network, I wanted to go to the Rixensart center to see the consequences for myself. However, while I had warned of my visit the day before, the director of the centre later recalled to tell me that this was impossible without prior ministerial authorization. He was also very sorry, not wishing that anyone could imagine that there was anything to hide in this centre. Nevertheless, this complication seemed very surprising and particularly disappointing in view of the democratic importance of parliamentary control of our federal policies. Minister, what do you think are the reasons for this regulatory difference in parliamentary access rights between an open centre for asylum seekers and a closed centre? Would you be in favour of extending a parliamentary right of access to the Fedasil centres? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u40	Mr. Moutquin, the visiting regulations for Fedasil centres list the categories of persons who have access to the centres. These include legal advice, reception recipients, representatives of the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and NGOs acting on its behalf. These provisions specify that such access is provided to assist the beneficiaries of the reception. The parliamentary right of access of closed centres corresponds to the right of access of prisons. Fedasil reception centres are open centres. Residents are not locked up. Reception is therefore not detention but social assistance in the form of material assistance. Visiting rules are laid down in the rules of procedure of reception centres. Planned visits to parliamentary delegations are possible but in consultation with the centre and the agency, provided that this does not impede the proper functioning of the centre and the safety of the people in it. The agency and the centre determine the practical modalities of the visit in order to ensure order and serenity in the centre. I informed Fedasil that my agreement for such visits should not be systematically requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u41	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I was worried about having to ask you for permission to visit a centre every time. So I won't have to bother you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u42	Minister, a minor girl at risk of female genital mutilation in her home country may apply to CGRA for refugee status. In this way, the Belgian State recalls that these practices are reprehensible and offer protection and guarantee to these children: as long as they are under our protection, they will not be subjected to mutilation. Because of the principle of family unity, parents could be assimilated to this status. One condition: to prove regularly, through appropriate medical certificates, that the child remains intact. Recent European case law has stifled the previous balance since, when it is read, the status of the parents of a minor child receiving such protection does not necessarily have to be assimilated to that of their child. The right of residence, however, was well established and therefore the question of status arose. Consequently, the CGRA refers the parents concerned to the Aliens Office, before which applications are processed in accordance with the procedures set out in Article 9a of the 1980 Act. A lengthy, costly and uncertain procedure which plunges the parents of these refugee children, and thus "placed under the protection of the Belgian State", into the anguish of an end to not receiving and imminence of an order to leave the territory, despite the fact that the case law establishes their right of residence under the Qualifying Directive. Can you tell us how many families are affected by this difficulty? How many have obtained a residence permit and how many are seen to be taken away? Can you tell us what are the avenues open by the Aliens Office to guarantee the right of parents to stay? How does it integrate the best interests of the child into decisions taken against their parents? In the absence of a consistent position related to the child's status and allowing parents to stay, how will the records of these girls be managed? Do they have to switch to a MENA status to be protected? What will happen to these girls if their parents are ordered to leave the territory on the basis of a refusal of a 9bis application for regularization? In addition, the previous situation allowed the CGRA to seek proof that the children remained intact. How can this guarantee be maintained in the current situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u43	Minister, my questions are in line with those of my colleague, Mrs Zanchetta. Indeed, since April 2019, CGRA has officially changed its policy on granting refugee status to relatives of persons threatened with genital mutilation. In the past, not only did the person likely to be subjected to mutilation obtain refugee status, but also his or her parents and siblings who were minors. Today, close relatives no longer obtain refugee status when they may be threatened with reprisals in their country of origin and the separation of a child from his or her parents is undesirable. The alternative is the introduction of a 9bis application for regularization, which requires a favour and thus does not ensure the granting of recognized refugee status. It lasts several months, does not grant material assistance and costs 350 euros. Therefore, questions arise. How many 9bis regularization files have been introduced since April 2019 for relatives of families of children at risk of sexual mutilation? How many could have been closed and in how long? In the case of close families, i.e. parents and siblings of children at risk of sexual mutilation, are applications for regularization under Article 9bis systematically accepted? By whom and under what terms has the decision to change the policy of granting refugee status to relatives of persons threatened with sexual mutilation been made? Could the decision to grant refugee status again to relatives be made? In November, Dominique Ernoux, spokesman for the Office of Foreigners, claimed that a mere political will was sufficient to speed up this kind of case, but that he had not received any requests from you. Is this information proven? Why has no political request for relatives been sent?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u44	Mrs Zanchetta, Mr Moutquin, in the statistics kept by the Office for Foreigners on the 9bis, one cannot distinguish between the reasons for the request. CGRA also does not have accurate statistics on this issue. However, it is important to clarify first and foremost that neither the Geneva Convention nor the general principles of law applicable to refugees provide that refugee status must be granted to the parents of a child recognized as a refugee minor, regardless of any fear of persecution that they might claim personally. I would like to point out that the examination of asylum applications is the responsibility of independent bodies, in the first instance the CGRA and, in the case of appeals, the Conseil du Litigieux des Étrangers. I cannot therefore interfere with the assessment made by these bodies. As far as residence is concerned, it is the Office which has jurisdiction. It should be noted that in the refusal decision notified to parents, the CGRA inserts a clause to draw the attention of the Minister responsible for Asylum and Migration to the fact that this rejected person is a parent of a child recognized as a refugee. Parents must apply for regularization (one 9bis). Such cases generally lead to the granting of residence permits for parents, provided that they can establish their filiation with the child, live with the child or demonstrate the effectiveness of their emotional or financial ties and have not committed any act contrary to public order or national security. The best interests of the child shall be taken into account in the allocation of a stay to the parents. Unaccompanied minor status will not be granted to girls because their parents reside in the territory. With regard to the practice of CGRA to seek evidence that the girl child remains intact through the production of medical certificates, this issue is not linked to the granting of protection status but to the maintenance of that status. This practice, which aims to ensure that girls are not maimed, remains relevant.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u45	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand your argument about the hierarchy of norms, but it is clear that the best interests of the child, as described in the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, which Belgium signed 30 years ago, must take precedence over any other norm.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u46	I wanted to come back to the question of numbers. Do you have more accurate figures for 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u47	No, because one cannot distinguish the motivation among all the 9bis requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u48	Mr De Smet is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u49	Madam Minister, on Thursday 28 November, by a large majority, a resolution on the spread of displaced migrants and refugees at sea was adopted by the plenary Chamber. Parliament gives you a clear mandate, essential for a government in current affairs, to sit at the table to bring the Malta agreement into force. You yourself have said a number of times that such a mandate from Parliament is necessary in a period of current affairs. That mandate is now in place. At present, many countries are already sitting around the table in technical working groups. The Malta agreement is not yet operational, but it provides for a spread, so that a number of countries, such as Italy and Greece, are relieved of their burden and should not assume the full burden of processing the asylum procedure. In this way, our country can demonstrate that European solidarity is indeed possible. The mechanism is also an explicit move towards a more general mechanism in the context of a reform of the Dublin Agreement, for which many parties have been won. Will you accept the questions raised by the Chamber in the resolution adopted on the spread of rescued migrants at sea? Will you join with our country in the distribution mechanism laid down in the Malta agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u50	Madam Minister, as my colleague told us a few moments ago and as a reminder: on 28 November last you were given the mandate you needed to engage Belgium in the Malta agreement. On January 8, we were still learning that a baby of an African migrant died on board a pneumatic canoe during the crossing between Africa and the Spanish archipelago of the Canary Islands, a canoe loaded with 43 people. This makeshift boat was located 15 miles east of Arrecife, the main city on the island of Spain. Once at the port, what did we find out? Not only had the child died, but many others were in dramatic conditions: another pregnant woman and a 12-year-old boy were also hospitalized for hypoglycaemia. I want to tell you that it's almost become a banality. These are various facts for many, but this is not for us! It is a human drama and certainly a human drama too. Madam Minister, this is not a trivial intention that we voted for at the plenary session on 28 November in order to give ourselves a good conscience. This is not what we were looking for: it was our determination to pioneer the construction of a real migration policy. What concrete steps have you taken since then? What measures do you intend to take in the future? According to what timetable does the government intend to make Belgium accede to the Malta agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u51	Migration is an international phenomenon and must therefore be tackled internationally. This is an important task for the European Union. We have always been a pioneer and I attach great importance to this. Despite the fact that we are in current business, I am doing everything I can to put my shoulders on this. Last week I had a meeting with the European Commissioner, Mrs Johansson, on her question. We have pledged our active participation in the plan of action which it will make by the summer. It looks not only at the problems of Mediterranean routes, but also at the problems of countries such as ours, which are mainly affected by secondary migration and which are destination countries. The resolution you are referring to calls on the federal government to join the Malta agreement. I have always made it quite clear that this is actually a cure for Symptom and that we should go there to a general approach to all problems. We need to find a mix of responsibility and solidarity there in order to find a solution. The status quo in the European Union has been going on for too long. I also told Mrs Johansson. I've been gone four years and I'm still hearing the same statements and stalemates. It was like I haven't been away for four years but only missed one meeting. It can't go on like this. In this way, the Schengen area will be under attack. It's not going to last any country. Mrs Johansson understood this, otherwise she would not have visited us as the first country to ask for our cooperation. I am therefore not a fan of single, ad hoc initiatives such as the Malta Agreement or the Greek Government's request for relocation. Only a structural solution with a global approach can provide relief. We must move towards a sustainable solution with a balance between solidarity with the first-line countries and the responsibility of those countries as well. Each Member State must play its part in relation to its economic capacity and also its population. That resolution was indeed voted on. Nevertheless, neither the government nor myself has changed their opinion or position on this matter. The same applies to the request for relocation of the Greek Government to which Mr Moutquin referred. The Greek Government asks Belgium to take 150 unaccompanied minors. I have already expressed myself in more detail in my answer to Question No 1740 by Mr Colebunders in the previous committee. So we are constructive in the search for a global and structural solution with a fair burden-sharing, a fair share. Belgium is currently one of the European leaders in the number of asylum applications per capita, including as a result of secondary migratory flows. In other words, our country is doing much more than its fair share of care in comparison with other European Member States. This also applies to Italy, for example, where refugees would be included under the Malta agreement. It is therefore not true that the current increased influx is limited only to the countries at the external borders of the European Union. Other central European countries, such as our country, have been affected. The efforts that we must already make and those of our people and our people are required to cope with the overload of the reception network are so great that we cannot even think of implementing the Malta agreement. Moreover, only a few countries have agreed on this agreement and other countries have been very critical, including the Netherlands, which is very much awaiting a global approach. It is therefore not a solution to say yes to that agreement and thus postpone the possibility of a structural solution for global migration and asylum in the European Union. I will also continue to press the new European Commission. I have done the same to the new European Commissioner. It is very good that it visits Member States and asks about their problems and opinions. We have replied to her that we want to be very constructive, also in order to offer solutions, and that we want to make our people both in the cabinet and in the services available. First and foremost, a structural solution must be found. If we cannot achieve this now with the new European Commissioner, when can we? It states that it has the support of the European President but also of Mrs von der Leyen and of the European Commission itself, to put other matters on the table and to strike a balance in this respect. If we do not do that now, the European story is about and out. In other words, I am tired of always having to tell you that there are European solutions, while it is not even scheduled for Symptom. That is the case with the Malta agreement. With respect for the problems that arise there, I can say that we have more influx than those countries now have.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u52	Madam Secretary, I find this rather punishing. You say that you are not a fan of Malta's agreement, nor are you a fan of the government. You are talking about a government in current affairs that does not have a majority in Parliament, but there is a majority in Parliament. That majority is asking you and the minority government in current cases to accede to the Malta Convention. You're just gonna throw that question away without a second thought. It can't be. During this period of current affairs, the current government must be modest in the light of Parliament's question, which is well-behaved. In substance, your argument is not correct. The Malta Treaty shows that the mechanism is a first step towards more. It's just a temporary solution. In addition, a correction mechanism is provided for countries with higher influx of asylum seekers. If you say that Belgium is in that case, then the Malta Convention has an answer to that. Your It also contradicts your statement that a European solution must be found urgently. The mechanism is now on the table. No more than that was possible. Will there be more than that possible? We don't know that. We don't have a glass ball. Neither do you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u53	Mr De Vriendt, four countries have joined the Malta agreement, all others have not. Nothing's come of it yet. People are still talking about the modalities. You are entitled to your opinion, but if we as the fifth country, of the 27, sign up to it, then there will be no more effort to find a further solution. This cannot be done for countries affected by secondary migration.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u54	It has been said for years that there should be a European solution, but it is not a comprehensive solution. Now Belgium, a country that should be in the European cockpit, is putting that solution aside. The solution is difficult to achieve, but if one country after another, and Belgium too, says that it will not participate, then I would like to point out that more than ten European Member States are still active in the technical working groups at the moment. There is therefore a degree of support, but of course it does not help if Belgium ignores Parliament's question. This week, the UN Refugee Organisation made a recommendation to the Presidency of the European Union to participate as much as possible in the Malta Mechanism. The European Commission has requested the same from the Member States. Our country has a strong European tradition. Mr Charles Michel is President of the European Council. Moreover, my main argument is and remains that your government has no majority, Madam Secretary. In Parliament, however, there is a majority in favour of our country joining Malta's mechanism. I really don't think it's possible for you to just ignore this. You may not be a fan, but Parliament is. There is, however, a majority in Parliament. And in current cases, you should actually listen to what Parliament is asking you to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u55	I am listening to Parliament, but I am doing what I have the opportunity to do right now. I would also like to see an overall agreement on the whole issue of asylum, not a solution that helps a few countries and allows us to go further.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u56	It doesn't make any sense at all. A mechanism has been explicitly provided for to allow for a correction to the Malta mechanism in the event of large influx of asylum seekers. Belgium can perfectly invoke that argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u57	Madam Minister, we all hear the need for a comprehensive agreement at European level on migration policy. But you cannot take hostage as you do a decision by Parliament. To say that you will not act on it is a lack of respect for Parliament, the majority of which has asked you to act on its resolution, but also for the Member States of the European Union. We are a pioneer country of Europe, Mr Michel is today the president. We must stand in solidarity with the other European countries that bear the consequences of this retreat on their own. I also find that this is a lack of respect for the men, women and children who are in immediate danger of saying that we are not going to enter the Malta agreement, because otherwise we will not be able to push everyone to reach an agreement on migration. It's strange. We take hostage the others by saying that we have done enough in Belgium by welcoming more than the others. That is a fact, many European states are not fulfilling their responsibilities. But we're all responsible. I maintain the position we have expressed in this resolution. There's a parliament. The legislative mandate is to pass laws, resolutions, whether in current or non-current business.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u58	Mr Moutquin, the Minister has partly answered your question No. 55002364C on inhumane living conditions in refugee camps. Would you, however, like to put it down?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u59	Mr President, I will turn it into a written question, as there has been a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u60	Mr Moutquin, thank you for your understanding. Your question no. 55002364C is therefore transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u61	Madam Minister, a recent study by the NGO Missing Children Europe has caused us serious concern, as it highlights the number of migrant children reported missing in Europe. It is estimated that 30,000 young people have arrived in Europe and have disappeared in recent years. In Belgium alone, 427 children have disappeared. As a reminder, Belgium, like all Member States, has an obligation to protect minors from various forms of exploitation. Indeed, the risk of their recruitment into various criminal networks, such as prostitution or even organ trafficking, is high. This is a matter of concern and we must react so that we can find the right solutions. Minister, are you aware of these figures? What have you undertaken with your services to ensure the protection of these minors? The lack of coordination in the exchange of data between European countries is often denounced. Do you plead for improved synergy in the processing of this data? At the national level, the NGO is calling for more resources for the Child Focus 116,000 line, as well as the necessary mentoring for migrant children. Will you follow these recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u62	Mr President, in the Desperate Journeys report in October, UNHCR described how a growing number of unaccompanied or separated children in Belgium disappear after they were initially registered by the government. Among them are many Eritreans. Following the disappearance of nine-year-old Brahim Bakali from the premises of DVZ, a task force was set up in the previous legislature to bring together the relevant administrations to exchange information on unaccompanied minors who are disappearing from the radar. The intention was to achieve one approach to disappearances, but the attempt to establish one protocol ended in April 2018. After you regained responsibility for migration in December 2018, in April 2019, when the task force had been stalling for over a year, it was reported that the cabinet would pick up the thread of the task force again. That is why I would have liked to know what has been going on since then. Was the task force called up again? How many times? Which actors were involved? What were the views expressed? What progress has been made? What is the state of play with regard to the intention of achieving a single approach to preventing disappearances?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u63	Mr Moutquin, any unaccompanied foreign minor reported to the service of the Tutelles is entitled to a reception in an observation and guidance centre which is an open reception facility specialized for the MENA. Minors receive social, legal and psycho-medical support from a multidisciplinary and trained team. After a period of observation, they are oriented according to their needs towards collective reception structures. Among the minors are those who have applied for international protection in Belgium. These young people rarely disappear. As for young people who are intercepted for various reasons by the police services, a considerable part of these minors do not remain in our reception facilities. Every disappearance is reported to the competent police service and in case of disturbing disappearance, it is also reported to Child Focus. With regard to minors in transit, since April 2019 the agency has been financing a project called Xtra MENA, set up by Caritas International and Minor-Ndako. This project aims to meet and inform these minors before they even enter a centre. The European data exchange is indeed an interesting way to identify the target group. As a preventive measure, however, I believe that contact with minors and the dissemination of appropriate information are more effective measures. With regard to Child Focus and the Tutelle Service, these are questions to be addressed to the Minister of Justice. I share your concerns about the problem of unaccompanied minors staying in our country, but, of course, they must also take advantage of the offer. Practice shows that they mainly want to return to their network. They will therefore be difficult to convince to enter the reception system or a residence procedure, or to accept accessible reception or guidance. Since it depends on the free will or desire of young people, there will always be loopholes. There are few legal possibilities for forcing or forcing young people. The key to success lies in intensive cooperation, given the multitude of competent authorities. It concerns both federal powers and powers of the Communities and administrations responsible for this matter. An integrated approach between the various actors in the field is important. As far as the task force is concerned, contacts remain between the administrations concerned. They are also developing new ways of working together to deal with the disappearances, but there has not been a real meeting of the Task Force since then. A pilot project on the registration of young people who do not wish to apply for asylum was launched at the beginning of this month. In order to do things more correctly and better for unaccompanied minors in the future and to strengthen synergies between departments, it may be an idea to formulate cross-departmental objectives and to further translate them into a coordinated approach, which has now been initiated.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am surprised that a meeting between different European ministers is not taking place. The report still mentions 30,000 missing minors, an increasing figure. Would it not be appropriate to take the initiative to organise a European meeting in the light of the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u65	Mr Segers, the Minister has actually answered some of your other question, but I do not know if that was a satisfactory answer for you. I'd be happy to give you the floor for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u66	Madam Minister, we hope for rapid progress, because indeed a great deal of time has been lost, including with the task force. We appreciate your efforts, for example with regard to the pilot project mentioned, but more is needed. After all, on 30 April 2019, we read in De Morgen that you would take the lead again with the task force, and at that time there was understanding for that, because you had not been competent for so long and your predecessor had left the case for quite some time between April and December 2018. In the meantime, however, you will no longer be able to hide in this respect, and that is why we are asking you to reinvigorate the task force now, so that we can finally find a clear approach to the disappearances. Of course, above all, we want the disappearances of unaccompanied minors to be dealt with as far as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u67	Mr Segers, is this also a satisfactory answer to your other question No. 55002523C on the Maghreb street children in Brussels or would you like to hear further information from the Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u68	Mr President, I would like to ask this question, because it concerns a specific case. I hope that the Minister will also have a number of specific points of reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u69	No, we have not really found a special answer to that. I asked. Your other question about the task force arrived this morning. A meeting had been held on this subject, but it could not continue for several reasons. However, no one could tell me what those reasons were. However, I have not received any special additional information on the Maghreb street children.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u70	Mr President, well, then I shall drop that question. If there is any information about this, I would appreciate it being delivered by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u71	I have a communication for the members of the committee: there are a number of possibilities to re-examine the questions. They can be submitted in writing or arranged for at a next committee meeting, because the Minister can only stay until 5 p.m. today. We will be in a hurry so that as many questions as possible can be dealt with today.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u72	Mr President, Madam Minister, we are several parliamentarians who have asked the government about the attempted expulsion of a 19-year-old Somali. On five occasions, the Aliens Office attempted to effect a forced return of this person. On the return of the third attempt to expel, a criminal complaint was filed for alleged acts of violence committed by the police responsible for repatriation: insults, racist speech, beatings, humiliations, etc. These charges are serious. Despite this complaint, a fourth forced return attempt took place on December 2, 2019, which did not succeed due to the opposition of some passengers. In the meantime, you have informed us that the Aliens Office had not taken notice of this complaint, lack of information corrected since we are several elected to have questioned you on the matter and that the subject has been dealt with extensively in the press. On 10 December, International Human Rights Day, I learned that a new attempt had taken place. Minister, in view of the complaint of alleged police violence, why does the Aliens Office not suspend deportation proceedings? How is it possible that attempts to return will follow when visas with Somalia are needed? A memorandum of understanding was concluded in 2016 with Somalia to organize returns to Somalia? What is the content? Is it linked to the security and humanitarian situation on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u73	Mr President, Mr Moutquin, it seems to me that a topical question has already been asked about this Somali national. Since then, the court has not requested a suspension of removal. I would like to point out that the complaint relates to an attempted removal that took place in July. The competent authorities therefore had ample time to hear the complainant. In any event, after the attempted removal, the person concerned did not lodge any complaints. Travel documents were still in order. If not, the carrier would have refused to take care of the persons concerned. The Memorandum of Understanding between Belgium and Somalia was signed on 14 December 2016. This agreement governs the return of Somali nationals who illegally reside in Belgian territory. It specifies the procedure for identifying and repatriating Somali nationals to Mogadishu. The text complies with the Belgian and international rules on identification and return.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u74	My colleague Rigot had questioned you in plenary on the matter, and you replied at the time that the Aliens Office had no information on this complaint. However, in the meantime, the Aliens Office has had the information as a complaint has been filed, contrary to what you say. Now we are told that a complaint is not necessarily suspensive of an expulsion. That's what I hear. This is still a 19-year-old who has been in a closed centre for more than ten months. He has had five attempts at expulsion. He was told: "The complaint that you file, which potentially concerns serious facts, for which you are probably going to have to be heard, does not protect you from a sixth attempt at expulsion". I have a bit of difficulty in thinking that such a migration policy is human when I hear things like this. The case of this young person is an example of procedural defects and of much more global problems in closed centres. I'm astonished at your answer. I encourage you to look at this issue and stop this fury against this 19-year-old.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u75	What is surprising is that as a Member of Parliament, you have problems with a minister who respects the laws and with a policy that is obviously honest, human but firm, and that respects the laws, and that is what I do. If you're surprised, and you're asking me such questions, it's weird. I have no intention of doing anything other than what the law provides. This person needs to be repatriated, that's all. That's what we do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u76	Minister, at no time did I personify the problem by identifying it with your work. I question our Belgian policy. We may have different sensitivities and solutions on the migration issue but we can find ourselves around cases like this one. You have a possibility to regularize it by the 9bis. You have a subsidiary power over cases like this young man's. You're talking about respecting the law. His detention time is huge. The psychological consequences on this young person who has been tried to be expelled five times are present. Do not accuse me of personalizing the question of this young Somali by associating him with your work, which I acknowledge to be more responsible than that of your predecessor. It is above all a human and legal question, more than a question of person.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u77	Madam Minister, the number of asylum applications has fallen slightly since the peak in October. In November, 2.452 people came to the asylum point, but it should be noted that the asylum point was only open for 19 days because of the many leave days that month. The influx remains at record level since the 2015 European migration crisis. In the first eleven months of 2019 there are over 2,000 asylum applications more than in the whole of 2018. This is accompanied by the remark that the figures were artificially printed in November 2018 by a daily limit on the number of applications at the asylum point. It was introduced by then Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration Theo Francken to temper the pressure on the shelter after a run in the months before. The impact of the Spain route on the asylum figures remains noticeable. This year there were 2,312 Palestinian asylum applications and 2,807 Salvadorans. It has been established for some time that Palestinians and Salvadorans fly visa-free to Madrid and travel to Brussels to apply for asylum. Madam Minister, have you already mentioned this to the European Commission and asked for visa waivers to be withdrawn? If not, why not? What concrete measures are you going to take to stop the influx through the Spanish airports?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u78	The visa waiver is really a problem. That is a European competence. I have, of course, already mentioned this at European level, but in order to remove it, there must be an agreement between all the Member States. So that's not gonna happen from today to tomorrow. The Commission, together with the Member States, is fighting against the abuse of visa exemptions. It is true that this has been addressed, but the withdrawal is not easy. There are strict criteria and complex procedures to be followed. This can only be withdrawn if consultations with the country fail and if less drastic measures appear to have no effect. Moreover, an increase in the number of applications for international protection is not sufficient for withdrawal. The administration follows up on the problem at close range. In October 2019, the Commissioner-General issued a communication to put an end to certain ideas. It was stated that international protection would not automatically be granted to applicants from El Salvador. This is also an individual study of the case. There is no demand for the Palestinians to lift the visa requirement. They shall be subject to visa requirements. Both Belgium and Spain have introduced a visa requirement for Palestinians. This does not exclude the fact that some Palestinians also use travel routes via South America and Madrid, where they apply for asylum at the border. The Foreign Affairs Office consistently applies the Dublin procedure. Palestinians who apply for international protection in Spain will be granted a Dublin decision and will be returned to Spain. I can also tell you that we are also doing targeted actions to give the Palestinians the right information so that they know that they should not just come here. The number of requests for international protection of Palestinians has fallen in recent months. They have once been in second or third place. In 2019 it was still 2,500 files, most of which were opened in the first months of 2019. In the first ten days of 2020 there were only 39 files. They are now in seventh place. So they realize the situation and our information flows to there. The number of files from El Salvador was still in third place in the first ten days of 2020. So we need to do more about this. However, there is a major problem in this respect, namely that they have a European visa exemption.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u79	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the answers and the information. I'm glad to hear you're on the case. Hopefully one or the other solution will also be found. The aim of the Geneva Convention is to protect people who need protection. We hear you're working on the matter, which makes me happy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u80	Madam Minister, I have already referred to it in the previous question. I'd like some clarity on your return policy. You say you want to do more, but the figures are a bit contradictory, also in terms of expenditure. These expenditures were approved in the Finance Committee and in the plenary session of 12 December. We note with regard to the provisional appropriations for the first quarter of 2020 that funds for repatriation and return would fall by 30%. We think that is a bad signal, at a time when you need to look everywhere for additional asylum places, because you cannot control the influx. You deny that, but yesterday it was still in De Tijd that both the much too high inflow and the outflow remain problematic. Why did you reduce the return budgets by 30%? You are defending the fact that Frontex is taking over more and more tasks, which is a good thing, but I would like to say that, apart from Frontex, there is still enough work to be done on repatriation. I have asked for figures on this and I am still in happy expectation. The N-VA had tabled an amendment to include an additional two million in the provisional appropriations, specifically for the return of expelled asylum seekers. Why did you not support that amendment in view of your claim that you do want to do something to raise the problematic outflow figures? Don't you think it's a strange signal to cut those budgets? My next question also refers to the provisional appropriations. It has been said that you can process more files thanks to the funds allocated, but this in itself does not solve the inflow and, more importantly, the outflow. What is your specific plan for the additional funds allocated for additional recruitment? Are they gonna be in the DVZ? What is the concrete plan and its roll-out? What recruitments are you planning there? Can you assure me that these are non-statutaires and that the recruitments will effectively end up with the DVZ? As far as I understand, there will be no return policy. That's a pity. Perhaps you can still reassure me. Finally, I have a question about the outflow through readmission agreements. These agreements are very important in order to be able to return asylum seekers and criminal illegals who have been tried. Your predecessor put a lot of effort into that. He has been able to make effective agreements with Morocco, Cameroon, Algeria and Iraq. In this way, he has been able to raise the expulsion of criminal illegals from several hundred under your rule to over 1,500 per year. How many readmission agreements have you been able to conclude since then? You've had more than a year to do that. What conversations did you have before that? Which countries exactly did you travel to? What is the result of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u81	I've really had a lot of time this year, haven't I? With three major departments, I can travel as much as I want, o irony. I'll take it all seriously. The reduction in the budget, as I have said ten times, is not due to a reduction in the attention paid to forced return or to a takeover of files of forced return by Frontex, but to the increased funding by Frontex of forced return, carried out by DVZ. An increasing proportion of these airline tickets are no longer paid by Belgium, but by Frontex. I put someone on it to make those requests. Small Belgium is the absolute number one in Europe to use Frontex's resources for those tickets. So it's about who pays the bill. It is good for our country, if we have the possibility to have Frontex pay the invoice, to make maximum use of it. In 2019, DVZ, so we all, in this way, saved about 2.5 million euros, just in plane tickets. This money was then allocated for the Foreign Affairs Office to the operation of the closed centres and IT projects aimed, inter alia, at better managing the return and the closed centres. These appropriations are therefore still used in the context of return. We are therefore doing more in the area of forced return without budget increases. This is an example of good management, the main task of a government in current affairs. Of course, there are still some challenges and it would be better if we could have a government with full powers and take new measures. Finally, there is your question about my position. In the concept of parliamentary control of the government, it is not customary for a minister to be questioned about the voting behaviour of a political group. If you have discussions with another group, you can have them here without needing me as a minister. In current cases, we have to guarantee the employment of the DVZ services in the first place compared to the end of 2018, in the light of the continuity of the work of the public services. As the Minister for the Budget pointed out in committee, the number of applicants exceeds the number of recruitments, not only at the Stay and Access Service, but also at the majority of the services of the migration and asylum authorities. For asylum services, we have not yet been able to complete the staff reinforcement of some 200 people approved by the Council of Ministers, despite several calls. Meanwhile, some 40 people have left the asylum services. Due to the tight labour market, the strict recruitment procedures in the government and a very poor staffing at P&D to cope with the current recruitment peak, it is not easy to recruit suitable staff quickly. That's not a new problem. I think it is an important point for the next federal government to work on faster recruitment procedures and to give the administrations more flexibility to respond more quickly to needs. I would remind you that asylum and migration authorities do not recruit per service, but for generic profiles per level. Since September 2019 there has been a statutory recruitment procedure for level A at DVZ. At the end of September, a recruitment procedure for C-level contractuals was also launched for all asylum and migration authorities. It looks like we will have to start new recruitment procedures in the coming weeks, especially for Level A. Depending on the number of suitable candidates affected by these recruitment procedures, the services can be strengthened according to the highest priorities. In this context, the strengthening of asylum services is, of course, a very important priority, because every penny that is put in place to strengthen the staffing of asylum authorities deserves a tenfold return and also saves us the opening up of additional places in the centres. I share your concern about the need for additional staff on the Residence and Access Service, not only in the area of family reunification, where there are too few staff, but also in the area of legal labour migration. I would also like to point out that these problems are not new and existed long before I took office. I can only determine that with you. Upon my arrival I identified a problem on those services and on Asylum. I also had to note that there was no recruitment reserve. I insist that the much discussed measure in 2018 to cut down the staff of the asylum services was not a good decision. There were other possibilities. I heard that my predecessor sent other statements on this matter to the world this week. I also saw a tweet by Mr Segers. There too, there is a progressive understanding. At the moment, there is no budget but a recruitment problem. The discussion on the additional allocation of the budget in the interdepartmental commission is, in this sense, somewhat virtual. The proof of this is that I have not yet had to apply for any derogation from the 1/12 scheme for the additional recruitments to Asylum. This is because the margins on the budgeted staff envelopes for Asylum and Migration are sufficient at the moment. Now all we have to do is recruit the right people. As the Minister for the Budget has also confirmed in Parliament, EUR 3 million has been allocated to the interdepartmental commission. This is for the entire domain Asylum and Migration, including the CGVS and the DVZ. That's where we can choose the destination. It is therefore not a budgetary problem at the moment, rather a recruitment problem. I very much hope that I will be able to use the extra money by 2020 and that I will have to ask Parliament for additional derogations from the 1/12 scheme for the IBS staff envelope for Asylum and Migration. This would mean that we have been able to fill the vacancies and that we have found sufficient staff. In this way we can guarantee continuity and solve the urgent problems. I have asked the DVZ to update the urgent needs of all services. In this way, I can adapt the staffing frameworks and present a forecast of any additional resources needed to the Council of Ministers. One return agreement has been concluded with Rwanda since December 2018. The implementation protocol to the European Re-admission Agreement on Turkey is still ongoing. Several readmission agreements with the Benelux countries are still under discussion. Belgium is in charge of the talks; it concerns the countries of Angola, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Vietnam. There are also memorandums of understanding with Algeria, Niger and Senegal. In addition, the Director-General moved to a number of countries to negotiate a return agreement or to promote return. He went to Lebanon, Sierra Leone, Tunisia, Ethiopia, Benin, Cameroon, Iraq, Israel, Palestine and Congo. I did not go there because I am responsible for two other major departments. I did start the trip myself, but then all I had was this authority. Now that is really not possible, because of my other departments. However, we have not been idle. We continue to try to convince the countries of origin to cooperate well on the return. Moreover, I receive many ambassadors and other diplomatic staff, from various countries, from my cabinet. In short, I am sorry, but I have not been able to go on a journey, although you think I have nothing else to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u82	Thank you for your answer. However, I would very much support you if you were to give time for these readmission agreements. It is, of course, much more impressive when the Minister deals with readmission agreements. This can be seen from those which we have already been able to conclude. Under this government in current affairs, yours is a little less impressive than your predecessor's. Unfortunately, without these readmission agreements, we cannot send the expelled asylum seekers back. This can be seen in the figures I have requested. I also have last year's figures, and it turns out there's a relapse. You communicated that yourself today. I do not see these figures in this, which makes me think the worst for the annual figures of 2019. I'm still waiting for that. The first signs seem to me to indicate clearly that, although Frontex pays more back, which you are working with, you cannot increase the number of returners. So your theorem has been completely undermined. The only thing that pleases me is that you will use the extra resources for the DVZ for Stay and Access. It is a pity, however, that you are using statutory documents for this purpose. I am pleased that, although you cannot recruit them per service, you will give priority to Stay and Access. Finally, I took advantage of the interval to pick up the exact figures. You said: they are available online; consult them; then you will see that you can determine the improvement. Well, my colleague Darya Safai also referred to it: in 2019 there were 27,700 applications. That is 18% more than in 2018 and 40.9 % more than in 2017. The delay, as reported by the website to which you referred, has only increased. We are now behind 10,300 files and there is a real backlog of over 6,000 files.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u83	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Demon's 55002322C has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u84	Mr President, I hear that some questions have been linked according to the subject. It turns out that one of my questions is about the imminent expulsion of a family on Monday. Given the urgency of the situation, would it be possible for me to ask my question today?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u85	We have a general answer. I never go into individual cases. I can't answer you about the individual case of a family. I can give you a general answer but not on this specific case. This is not happening!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u86	Mr President, Minister, I would like to refer to a recent study by the IOM which shows the unfortunate figure that again over 1,000 migrants died last year in an attempt to reach Europe via the sea. If we look at the Australian figures, we can see that they are a lot lower because they have put in place an effective influx policy. That way no one can enter the country illegally. With us, this is not the case at all because of a leaky Schengen external border. My questions are as follows. Your Dutch colleague has clearly spoken out in favour of a solution to this leaky Schengen external border. Do you support that question? What have you already done to make improvements at European level? My second question concerns your ruling if you would like to deal with procedural abuse of asylum seekers. In the meantime, it has become clear to me that you are talking about 'Dubliners' and those who have already applied elsewhere in Europe or have received recognition. You wouldn't be offering them shelter any longer, but you would be giving them backup. I assume this is about the REAB premium. I have already asked you about this. A REAB premium can amount to thousands of euros and I have already asked you whether you are sure that those who received such a premium will not just come back here later. We have already made several work visits and it has shown that there are a lot of door-to-door seekers. It is about asylum seekers who were here earlier, who received a REAB grant and then simply returned. If you do not have the answer to that question, I wonder how you will monitor it and try to prevent it. In this way, the procedure can be abused. In the meantime, if you have changed your mind or the answer to my question now, I wonder why you have not applied it before.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u87	Mr President, Mrs Van Camp, I continue to find the obsession with the Australian model as a solution for the European Union a bit bizarre. After all, you just have to look at a globe to see the difference right away. There is also no comparison between migration rates. In Australia, there are at most a few thousand boat flights a year and this is about relatively limited periods in the last thirty years. It goes without saying that this problem cannot be compared with the continuous and much larger migratory flows in the European Union. From a geographical point of view, it is much easier to get in here. It could therefore be compared with the situation in which Australia, as a continent, in its search for solutions to combat forest fires, would copy fire prevention on the Kalmthoutse Heide. I think this is a good comparison to show how bizarre that is. They are problems of a very different order of magnitude, which require a different approach. I agree that optimising the control and surveillance of our European external borders should be an absolute priority in the further development of European migration policy. It's not the first time I've said that. Many measures have also been taken in recent years at European level, such as the revision of the mandate of the European Border and Coast Guard or the strengthening of checks on entry and exit through the new European IT system. Belgium has always supported the introduction of these measures and will contribute to their implementation and implementation. In this sense, I fully agree with the Dutch Prime Minister Rutte. The Schengen area, and thus the abolition of European internal borders, can only survive if there is a strong common external border policy. That is the basis of the Schengen agreements. At the last meeting I said it: 'Without Dublin, there is no Schengen'. My Dutch colleagues also agree with me that strong external borders are a necessary but not sufficient condition for a well-functioning Schengen. Europe is not an island, and the geographical, political and legal reality means that, on the one hand, we need to look beyond the external borders and also to enter into partnerships with third countries in order to manage migration and address the root causes of migration. On the other hand, we must also have a robust internal migration and asylum system based on the principles of responsibility and solidarity, with each Member State fulfilling its obligations and bearing a fair share of the burden. After all, our international and humanitarian obligations mean that we in Europe, no matter how strong our external borders, will always have to protect those who are entitled to them. It is therefore clear that the current system, with an unreasonable burden on some Member States, abuse of procedures and persistent secondary movements within the Schengen area, is neither efficient nor fair. Together with my Dutch colleagues, I have argued on several occasions that a fundamental revision of our asylum system is also necessary to safeguard Schengen. I'll keep doing that. Finally, I do not know where you get the claim that we do not know who got the REAB premium. We used to say that we don't keep track of who doesn't want to return voluntarily at the last minute, but that's something else because those people don't get that premium. That's why your question stands on loose sand. You're confusing a number of things. There is a record of who receives a REAB premium. However, in order to prevent abuse, migrants can only make use of the voluntary return programme once within a period of five years. To this end, Fedasil, in cooperation with the International Organisation for Migration, has created a database of all persons returning. The return must also take place effectively in order to obtain the REAB premium. The asylum databases are something else. The asylum databases record the recognition or procedure in another Member State, as EURODAC shows. The Foreign Affairs Office shall establish this at the time when the application for international protection is made. The return aid for applicants recognised in another Member State concerns only transport to that Member State and no other support. So you are confusing two things or giving a different interpretation to the information obtained. We do know who has received a REAB grant. People who try to set up a carousel do not have any interest in it, as they can only get the premium once.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u88	Madam Secretary, you're asking me where I'm getting this information. Well, I'm getting the information from your cabinet figures. While you replied, I looked it up again. You say: 'There is no detection system to detect persons who would be back in Belgium and who would have used the REAB programme in recent years'. That is where the information comes from, and it makes sense that I base myself on it. If you do not know whether those concerned have already obtained a REAB premium or if you are unable to provide any figures...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u89	Mrs Van Camp, we do know who has received a REAB grant. However, persons who have applied for a premium but have not received it may have voluntarily returned or refused it at the last moment. Of course, we do not have names of persons who refuse the premium at the last minute. We only keep the names of those who did receive the premium.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u90	Madam Minister, my question is about whether or not you can rule out the possibility that people who have received a REAB grant will come back. However, this is unrelated to the fact that those persons can obtain a REAB premium again. Those people may get ordinary care or other things. In this context, you reply that you do not have a registration system. I would like to put my oral question again, so that you can reply again at a next committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-01-15-55-commissie-ic090x.u91	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we will conclude the work for today. The outstanding questions will be postponed to a next committee meeting, which we will invest as soon as possible.
