ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u1	Herr Prässident des Parlament der Deutschsprächigen Gemeinschaft, Member of the Brussels Parliament, colleagues in the parliaments of the regions and communities and in the House of Representatives, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the interparliamentary dialogue is to build bridges between the policies of the federated entities and that of our Federal State through its activities. This initiative has been successful in the past. The joint resolutions adopted by parliaments on the occasion of CP23 in Bonn and COP24 in Katowice are proof of this. Members of the various delegations wished to discuss new topics in this interparliamentary dialogue. Today we are focusing on the preparation of the future COP26, which will take place in Glasgow in 2021. We have received many suggestions regarding the organization of this hearing and we thank you for that. Today we are starting the hearings with the Belgian expert par excellence, Mr Peter Wittoeck, Head of Climate Change at the Public Health FPS, as well as with representatives of the Climate Coalition, Nicolas Van Nuffel and Mrs Lien Vandamme. Welcome to them. This hearing may be completed by others in the coming weeks, after consultation between the various heads of delegations. Before giving the floor to our guests, I will take a few more moments to clarify the method of work. After the introductory statement by our guests, I will give the floor to the various heads of delegations, who are representatives of the various parliaments, for a first round of questions. After that, speakers will respond to questions and remarks. Secondly, I will give the floor according to the order of the political groups as it follows from the distribution of the d'Hondt key in the House of Representatives. For each question, and so that as many members as possible can speak, I will ask everyone to have a maximum speaking time of two minutes; I know it is short, but it will allow as many people as possible to speak today. If Mr Wittoeck is ready, I invite him to speak. This is the lead negotiator for the Belgian delegation during the last COPs. I invite him to take the floor to take stock of the challenges to be faced at COP26 in Glasgow in 2021, as well as an overview of recent developments at European level. Mr Nicolas Van Nuffel and Ms Lien Vandamme will then take the floor. Mr Wittoeck, if you are ready, the floor is yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u2	Madam President, I'm almost here. My apologies for the little delay. I'm trying to share my screen with you, so everyone can see my presentation. First of all, thank you for inviting me once again to give you a little explanation of recent developments in climate policy. The theme for today, if I understand correctly, is the preparation of COP26. It would normally have taken place at the end of the year, soon, but it was postponed until November next year. Nevertheless, I think there are a number of important developments, and I would like to give you a little explanation. I will begin my presentation with a slide which I also showed you in January: the evaluation by UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres of the previous COP in Madrid last year, which expressed its disappointment at the outcome of the COP25, when it comes to giving an impetus to increasing the level of ambition and to further implementing some aspects of the Paris Agreement. On that slide I briefly summarized the challenges, the themes that will be at the heart of COP26. Whether it is taking place this year or next year, that does not make much difference. I will not go into all these themes in my presentation, because I think that would lead us too far. I will focus mainly on the theme of ambition. The postponement of the COP and also of the meetings of the subsidiary bodies, les organes subsidiaryes, the auxiliary bodies, which should normally take place in June, does not mean that the international climate change story is stalling. Like everywhere else, one tries to cope with the impossibility of physically meeting, by organizing virtually as many things as possible. This was done, for example, in June with the organisation of what was called the June Momentum, where a whole series of themes were discussed in different settings, but where, of course, the outstanding issues were not negotiated in order to fully implement the Paris Agreement. There are essentially two outstanding points: making the Paris Agreement operational and the ambition story. To close the gap between the mandatory objectives on the one hand, the Paris Agreement and, on the other hand, from what the parties to that Agreement have promised so far and to which they have committed themselves at national level in the nationally determined contributions of NDCs. Like I said, I won't focus on the Paris Agreement Rulebook. In January I gave you an overview of the points that were still open after the COP25 in Madrid. These points remain open until COP26 in Glasgow next year. I repeat that one of the main problems remains the operationalisation of Article 6 of the Paris Agreement, in particular the carbon market. I shall therefore refer to the ambition mechanism of the Paris Agreement. As a reminder, the Paris Agreement decided that in order to ensure that our collective level of ambition is in line with the temperature targets, we need to be well below two degrees and strive for a maximum degree of one and a half degrees, our efforts at national level must be consistent with that. Therefore, an evaluation is organised every five years, the Global Stocktake, followed every two years by an update of the NDCs, the plans and objectives submitted by the parties to the United Nations in Paris. I would remind you that the Paris Agreement specifies that successive NDCs should become increasingly ambitious and reflect the highest possible ambition of the parties in question. I would also remind you that this collective evaluation took place the first time in 2018 and that we will therefore have to submit an updated NDC to the UN for the first time before the end of this year. It's important to remember that, because that's the context for the rest of my story. It is also important to note that Paris' obligation to present a long-term strategy this year, a strategy whose horizon is in the middle of the century and beyond. This has been done by the European Union. The European Union, in the context of the agreement by the European Council that the European Union should become climate neutral by 2050, has presented it as part of the long-term strategy, the European Green Deal, to the United Nations. We are now also working at European level on the renewed, updated nationally determined contribution, which is not for COP26 before the end of 2020; Paris is explicitly to be submitted to the UN. In its first Green Deal Communication, and before that, when Mrs von der Leyen became President of the European Commission, the European Commission had the ambition to bring the European reduction target under Horizon 2030, which is currently at least 40% reduction, to 50% or 55%. That's the central point of what I want to tell you. This is extremely relevant for international negotiations, because the European Union wants to profile itself as a global leader. That is also one of the objectives in the Green Deal. The international community is therefore looking very hard at the European Union to live up to those intentions, as the European Commission has pointed out and as the European Union as a whole announced in the communication that it will submit a renewed NDC. This is a determining factor for the positive dynamics that we hope to see emerging at international level. Our current objective, as set by the European Council in 2014, is to collectively reduce emissions at European level by at least 40% compared to 1990 in the territory of the European Union. The carbon market and its lack of clarity in the context of Paris play no role there. The European Council also decided in 2014 how this objective should be shared out. This concerns, on the one hand, the sectors participating in the European Emissions Trading System, the ETS, which, according to current legislation, will have to collectively reduce their emissions by 43% by 2030 compared to 2005. On the other hand, in the current context, the non-ETS sectors for which Member States have been targeted should reduce their emissions by 30% compared to 2005. At the same time, the European Council in 2014 has not yet decided exactly how this 30% effort should be distributed among the Member States. This was done in a subsequent phase in 2016, when legislation was adopted by the European Council and the European Parliament. However, at that time the European Council set out a number of great principles. Cost-effectiveness had to be an important factor in the distribution of efforts. Fairness and solidarity, on the other hand, should also be criteria for sharing efforts across Member States in the non-ETS sectors. The reduction is therefore 30% for the non-ETS sectors. Let me briefly describe how the division happened at that time. In addition to what I have just told you, the European Council had also decided that the distribution between Member States in the non-ETS sectors should be proportionate to their prosperity or, more specifically, to their per capita gross domestic product. This led to a linear function in the European Commission's analyses, where you see on the left-hand side of the graph the emissions that countries with a gross domestic product would get below the European average. On the right side of the slide you will see the richer European Member States, including Belgium. You can't really see the end of the line on the right. However, this would have led to very large reductions, particularly in the richest Member States. According to the graph, this would be between 60 % and 70 %. In order to avoid imposing such targets on the richer Member States, which might be almost impossible to achieve, the European Council also decided to limit the maximum effort required of a Member State to 40%. In this way, the graph you see here is created. The points on and around the line are the efforts and emission reductions that the European Commission considers reflect the distribution based on gross domestic product per capita, capped at the above-mentioned maximum effort of 40%. The legislative process was followed by the negotiation process. The final result, the targets imposed on the Member States, was partly the same as what the Commission had analysed, i.e. a breakdown based on per capita gross domestic product, but not entirely. The red squares on the chart are the ultimate goals. This is all rather abstract, but it gets more concrete when I show how the distribution based on gross domestic product per capita is related to the green spheres on the graph "Justice Sharing Regulation'. I'll zoom in on Belgium. Where, according to the gross domestic product per capita formula, Belgium would have received an emission reduction of 38%, it finally became 35%. This was achieved because at the time Belgium, together with a number of other relatively to very rich and relatively small European Member States, you can see them listed on the map that an alliance has been concluded. For example, our country has managed to take into account the cost-effectiveness factor, which was also mentioned by the European Council, but which was not the first basis for the Commission's analyses. The alliance with these countries has succeeded and countries such as Belgium have been given a reduction in their efforts, thanks to the generosity of Germany, France and the United Kingdom, if I may call it that, which accepted to increase their efforts by 1%. This reminds me of how the current objectives for the Member States have been achieved. I'm gonna head over to the Green Deal today. You are aware of Mrs von der Leyen's statement, but not only of her, because it is really becoming reality: the Green Deal is now really at the centre of European policy and is being called the new growth strategy, in all its various aspects, with the aim of transforming our economy and society quite far. I will spare you all the details, although they are not details, because of course these are huge themes. The Green Deal is intended, among other things, to say this in the context in which we are speaking, namely the international negotiations to allow the European Union to continue as a global leader. As part of this Green Deal and central to the communication of the European Commission from the outset, there is the anchoring The goal is already being anchored at European Council level, in the form of a European Council conclusion, in a European climate law. This will probably become a regulation with the long-term title "European Climate Law" with the promise to submit a plan to increase the level of ambition by at least 50% or 55% by 2030. These are the announcements made at the beginning of the journey to develop the European Green Pact. And these are the things I'm going to expose to you again. Europe's climate law was promised by March this year. Indeed, in March 2020, the European Commission submitted to the Council and Parliament its proposal for a regulation, Regulation, to incorporate carbon neutrality into the climate law. At the same time, she announced that she was exploring options to increase the level of ambition by 2030, with this range of 50% to 55%. Negotiations on this climate bill in the European Parliament and the Council have been under way for some time now. Meanwhile, last month, the Commission also submitted its Climate Target Plan, which is the Communication on the 2030 target. In this context, the European Commission is clearly proposing that the European Union, as a collective objective at the economic level as a whole – there is no distinction at present between ETS and non-ETS – the target of at least 55% below the 1990 level. As you know, the European Parliament, co-legislator for this legislation, for the Climate Law, had already spoken before COP 25 and, I believe, even before COP 24 in Katowice. I am taking here, for example, an excerpt from the resolution adopted by the European Parliament prior to COP 25, in which it clearly calls for the European Union to reduce its emissions by 55% by 2030. It was adopted with a very large majority, as you see on the slide. I assume you recognise your colleagues in the respective groups in the European Parliament. Meanwhile, as I said, the European Parliament has also taken up the Commission's proposal on the European Climate Regulation. The vote in plenary (first reading) in the European Parliament is taking place today. I hear the results will be reported tomorrow. I cannot therefore yet show you the results of the vote in the European Parliament on the 55% (or at least 55%) proposed by the European Commission in the context of the Climate Act. But what I can show you is the results of the vote on the two most important committees. The ITRE Committee (Industry, Research and Energy), in its plenary opinion, called for the level of European ambition by 2030 to be increased to "at least 55%". This already goes a little further than that resolution, which spoke of 55 per cent. [[Now it's "at least 55%."]] The committee preparing the basis for the plenary vote, the Environment Committee, voted in favour of increasing the level of ambition from at least 40% to 60%. So he went a little further than the ITRE committee. We will see what will be decided today in plenary. But you already see that the European Parliament is also moving rather strongly towards an increase in the European level in the areas proposed by the European Commission, very generally speaking. Let us look at how Member States are now positioning themselves in this context. At the Climate Action Summit, organized by the Secretary-General of the United Nations in September 2019, several Member States committed themselves to increasing the level of ambition of their national plans. You know which countries it is. In the meantime, further steps have been taken. Eight countries had sent a letter to Commission Vice-President Timmermans asking him to increase the level of European ambition to at least 55%. More recently, there was a discussion at an informal meeting of the Environment Council of the European Union, with the climate and environmental ministers of the Member States. From the report of that meeting, although informal but politically relevant, I learn that ten Member States, as you can see here in the dark red, have explicitly declared themselves in favour of an emission reduction target of at least 55% and that additional four Member States have declared themselves at 55% emission reduction. You may only see three, but Malta is a little too small, but it is also part of it. Then let's take a look at Belgium. You will have seen that on many of the cards I showed earlier, Belgium was not coloured in. So I want to focus on where Belgium is. It is a look back at our targets as we have them in the very short term, on Horizon 2020, here in red, and how our historical emissions will relate to them until 2017, so that we look forward to Belgium's position in the context of the current European targets, i.e. the target of 40 per cent and derived from them the target of 35 per cent for Belgium in the non-ETS sectors. That's the red line on the right. It is not a point objective, as you know, it is a linear path that must be followed, albeit with flexibility. When we look at how this obligation relates to the official projections, as we have stated in the context of our National Energy and Climate Plan, we see that the existing measures, existing measures, are very wide-ranging with our current objective path. However, if the federal government and the three regions manage to implement all these measures, we will remain broadly below the linear trajectory. You have already seen the extent of the gap between existing and additional measures. It's another way to illustrate how big that effort is, with the figures I just showed. The annual emission reduction effort will therefore have to double compared to our historical emissions. Perhaps it will be even more, because the figures I just showed you of historical emissions have now been adjusted to the latest figures. You can see that here on the black line. You can see that evolution does not go in the direction of respecting the linear trajectories you just saw on the graph. It is therefore a particularly important challenge for Belgium's policy. Here you see the same graph briefly, but now on a time scale up to 2050. With our long-term strategy, we are not achieving climate neutrality. Belgium has not committed itself as a Member State to becoming climate neutral at national level. According to this graph, we are also quite far away from this in the non-ETS sector. If we are to achieve climate neutrality, we will have to move up the pace again compared to the already increased acceleration in order to meet our current 2030 target. Let us see what the increase in the European objective could mean for Belgium. I would stress 'would' because we still do not have enough information to do more than make an estimate, a simulation, as it were, of what should be the derived Belgian target of an increase of 55%. In the graphs that follow, I have therefore used one of the scenarios proposed by the European Commission in the impact assessment accompanying the Climate Target Plan, which should reduce the non-ETS sectors that currently have to reduce 30% compared to 2005, 39%. The other scenarios change the scope of ETS and non-ETS, but they are not so far away. I have chosen the scenario in which the scope for the ETS sectors and the non-ETS sectors remains the same. If we use the same logic as that used by the Commission in 2014-2016, which was also accepted by the Council, namely on the basis of per capita gross domestic product, we can draw up a number of scenarios with different starting points and endpoints. The starting point was the present, 0, and the end was 40, so stay at least stable and a maximum reduction of 40 %. I have chosen a number of percentages for my charts where the minimum effort of the poorest Member State, Bulgaria, evolves from 15% to 25% in another scenario. On the part of the richest Member State, we have looked at what a ceiling of 50%, 55% or 60% could mean. That's what you see in the lines on the chart, just like the lines that reflect the current efforts. The foregoing is abstract. More specifically, it is shown on the following graph. In red you see the current objectives. The different lines you see below reflect the different simulations, the different spreads in terms of minimum effort and maximum effort across Member States. Let me focus again on what that can mean for Belgium, for which the present stands at -35 %, but a better comparison point is the initial 38%, given the cost-effectiveness correction. Based on the different scenarios I have just shown, this means, according to an approach of per capita gross domestic product, that Belgium will be able to achieve a reduction of 43% to 45%. Another often quoted study, carried out by the German research institute Agora Energiewende together with the Öko-Institut, has done a similar exercise for two scenarios. In a first scenario, as proposed by the Commission, the non-ETS sectors together need to reduce 39% and in a second scenario they need to reduce much more together. In the 39 % scenario, on which the graphs I have just shown you are also based, Belgium must also achieve about 44 to 45% of emission reduction, 2005-2030 non-ETS sectors. In doing so, I have provided some elements of the current discussion within Belgium, in particular in function of the European Council on 15 and 16 October and the second session of the European Council on 10 and 11 December, which will decide in two stages on the level of ambition at Horizon 2030. So far, it has not been evident that I am using this as an expression of caution to allow Belgium to actively position itself in that debate. Madam President, that's all I want to say. I would like to conclude, not with disappointment, but with the hope of the UN Secretary-General that we can still succeed in achieving the objectives of the Paris Agreement. In this context, you may all have also received the encouraging message, in particular the announcement by China, the largest extortionist and an important trading partner. China is the largest contributor, and without doubt an important trading partner and an important player at international level, especially in terms of competitiveness and economy in general. President Xi Jinping announced that China will reach its emission peak by 2030 and will be carbon neutral by 2060. It is a success for the European Union and the European climate diplomacy that is currently actively negotiating bilaterally with our main partners and has gone to China with the demand to peak by 2025, China decided that this will be before 2030, and to become carbon neutral by 2060. My apologies, Madam President, if I have exceeded my speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u3	No problem! Thank you, Mr. Wittoeck. As a follow-up, I will give the floor to the representatives of the climate coalition, to whom I will also ask to be as synthetic as possible. Of course, it is not always easy, but it will allow for a period of exchange with the parliamentarians present today. Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of Van Nuffel.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u4	Madam President, I look forward to the launch of the presentation. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking you for the opportunity to address you today on the basis of Mr Wittoeck's state of affairs. First of all, I will introduce us and present the climate coalition. (You can go to the next slide). The Climate Commission was established in 2008. It brings together very broad sectors of Belgian civil society at national level. You will find environmental NGOs, development NGOs, the three trade unions and a range of citizen movements and youth organisations. We have been working together since 2008. For years, we have concentrated much of the work of the climate coalition on raising awareness and mobilizing the Belgian population on climate issues. Starting in 2019, this work was somewhat left out, as the young people took the hand and we saw a lot of civic events, not only organized by the young people, to call for more climate ambition. What brings together civil society actors in the climate coalition is a common conviction that more ambition is not only an absolute necessity brought about by science, but not just a legal obligation because, as Mr Wittoeck explained, in order to be in line with the Paris agreement, there is a legal need today to enhance ambition. But there are not only these two elements. Raising ambition is feasible and desirable. A lot of studies show that, for the European Union, raising its ambitions will be beneficial to the economy, will be beneficial to employment, will be beneficial to social cohesion. It is not only feasible but also desirable. I believe that this is the heart of the work we have been doing for years, mainly the work we have done over the past two years, which focuses on a series of concrete elements, on which my colleague, Lien Vandamme, who coordinates the political work of the climate coalition, will return in a moment. There are a number of pillars to our action, regardless of the topics we address. The first is ambition. Mr. Wittoeck stressed this: this will be one of the heart of the debate at COP26. We will focus on this issue. A second element: ambitions are not enough. There is a need for concrete action. We have therefore focused on the various episodes of the preparation of the National Energy-Climate Plan, which has eventually been sent to the European Commission, but which corresponds to the current level of ambition and not to the level of ambition that is expected. He will most likely have to be seen very soon. A third dimension: the question of the just transition and ensuring that not only do we have to achieve climate ambitions to ensure social well-being, but we must do so with a permanent concern for employment and social justice. Fourth important lever: the climate governance on which this interparliamentary commission has already stopped under the previous legislature. This is an extremely important subject for interparliamentary dialogue. Last but not least, let us not forget international solidarity! We know that global warming is here today. It is already extremely expensive for our countries, but perhaps even more expensive (less money, but in human lives) in the developing countries since today the victims of global warming are not for tomorrow, it is today and they are counted by millions in the Asian deltas, in the Sael desert, in the Andes, etc. We always insist that we not forget this notion of international solidarity in climate policies. It is clear that the crisis related to VOCID-19 re-examines all of our policies. The climate coalition was created in 2008. We were on the eve of the explosion of the financial crisis, which was, in fact, already present in 2008, but was not yet the front page of the media. In the years that followed, we heard a great deal that the priority should be economic recovery and job creation and that the climate would be taken care of later. This type of position has led to what is happening today, i.e. a very significant delay in the implementation of climate commitments. The need today is therefore to act differently and to use this crisis, which is first and foremost a tragedy for millions of people and lots of companies, and to use this essential moment to relaunch differently. The VOCID-19 crisis teaches us a lot and we have heard a lot about this major health crisis that can be reported on the climate issue. The first is the need to listen to science. God knows how much we have heard the experts throughout this crisis and how much they have been necessary to underpin the political decision. Unfortunately, we have not listened enough to scientists for decades on the climate issue. They say clearly - and we have even heard virologists comment on the issue - that from an epidemiological point of view, even if we take this question alone, the climate crisis will have far more serious long-term impacts on human lives than the current crisis of the VOCID-19. Secondly, what we learn from the crisis is that the better prepared we are, the more we can cope and the more resilient we are. This obviously also applies to the climate crisis: the need for solidarity and the need for a cross-cutting approach. This requires today that not only when we talk about climate but also when we talk about recovery and reconstruction policy, we have in mind that the period that begins now, the period of reconstruction must be a period not only of reconstruction but also of construction of another model that is really based on the implementation of the 17 sustainable development goals. On the slide, you have two Chinese ideograms. Some or some of them may be familiar with these two ideograms. In Chinese, the notion of crisis fits in with two ideograms: the first one signals the danger, the second one signals the opportunity. We must pay attention to all the dangers but it seems important to us to seize the opportunities as it was done after the 1929 crisis through the New Deal. That is exactly what the European Commission is proposing today: to re-issue Franklin Roosevelt's type of response in the United States from 1933 onwards, to use massive means to make the crisis an opportunity to build something else. Who's gonna pay? This is, of course, the first question to be asked. It is thought that these principles are very beautiful but do we really have the means to do so? First, I would like to stress the question of the cost of inaction. There is a landmark report about 15 years ago, Sir Nicholas Stern's report, on the cost of inaction. This report is slightly outdated today, 15 years later, but studies continue to appear one after the other. Last June, a study was published in the world-renowned scientific journal Nature. It points out that, already today, the cost of inaction over the last 40 years amounts to $600 billion a year in terms of climate damage and that if we continue this way, it will be 500 billion more at the global level that will be added. Apart from the cost of the action, this seems to be totally minimal. Of course, costs will continue to increase over time, but we will have to look for ways. The European Commission has made key proposals in this regard. I am not going to detail them today but it is clear that around Next Generation EU, proposals are on the table. There is now a debate between the Council, Parliament and the Commission on means. In particular, the European Council's agenda in mid-October will be to set up new own resources for the European Union and in particular – finally! - perhaps the introduction of a tax on financial transactions at European level which the Commission had tried to set up ten years ago and which had never been introduced, even if enhanced cooperation had advanced on the subject. This brings me to the last element that we believe is essential. It is necessary to bring together all the actors around the table to elaborate these reconstruction measures – I am thinking here in particular of the various sectors, the social partners and societal actors, such as us – and to discuss how we can combine prosperity, social justice and respect for the limits of the planet. All this, according to a vision which has recently been joined by the Brussels Region and which is increasingly recognized at the international level, namely the Donut economy which consists of reviewing the concept of sustainable development and moving it forward to give its rightful place to the economy which occupies an important place. Indeed, it is our companies that create the value that allows us to live together. However, it should not be forgotten that the objective of the economy is to enable everyone to achieve a series of social objectives within the limits of the planet. We are talking about climate, but there are also other planetary limits that are seriously endangered. In our view, it is essential – I will not dwell on the subject because we need to be able to move forward on issues specific to COP26 – that recovery and reconstruction plans serve as a backbone to move towards a more sustainable development model. For this to happen, choices must be made at the level of the sectors we support in terms of tomorrow's economy. Yesterday's sectors of the economy must be accompanied to enable them to evolve and change. Workers must be supported in their retraining, if necessary. It is also necessary, and above all, to use the means available to support the development of renewable energies, major changes in the transport, food, construction, etc. The European Union will, moreover, provide resources for this purpose. Means can also be found at the level of reorientations. Last year, the WWF highlighted that Belgium, which is not necessarily the worst student, was spending 2.7 billion euros to subsidize fossil fuels. Would it not be time to reorient these means to subsidize the transition to a carbon-free economy? I thus conclude my introduction and turn the floor to my colleague, Lien Vandamme.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u5	Mr Van Nuffel, thank you for your speech. I now give you the floor, Mrs Vandamme, if possible for about ten minutes, so that we can move on to the exchanges.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u6	Madam President, I will deal with COP26, the delayed climate summit that is the subject of this sitting, but I will also link it where necessary with the processes that are currently under way in Europe and Belgium. I will start with a very logical statement, namely it is not because the corona crisis has shut down the world that the climate crisis has stopped. We have already seen several dramatic consequences of the climate crisis this year, forest fires in California and floods in Uganda. We are also increasingly seeing more and more serious consequences in Belgium. So the urgency has not disappeared and we think it is necessary to repeat it here. It was therefore important that you organised this session because it is not because there is no climate summit in 2020 that there can and should be no climate action this year. There are still important moments this year as the deadline for ambition and international climate financing covered 2020, not COP26. This means that things must be done this year, despite the delay of the COP. There are two important international moments where progress is needed, the UNFCCC Climate Change Dialogues from the end of November to early December, about the time when negotiations would normally have taken place, and a climate summit organised by the COP26 Presidency and UN Secretary-General Guterres on the fifth anniversary of the Paris Agreement, 12 December. If I understand correctly, both international events will continue virtually. The latter is counting on the presence of Heads of State or Government to commit themselves to ambitions and other matters. The main issues on the COP26 agenda are the ambitions, Article 6 of the Paris Agreement or the carbon markets and a number of equity issues that come back to the climate summit every year. I shall now turn briefly to these various points. I will not dwell too long on the ambitions because they have already been dealt with. Basically, the 2020 deadline is there and we want the European Union to play a leading role in making the commitments set out in the Green Deal work, knock and submit. This should preferably be done as soon as possible in order to fully fulfil the role of climate diplomacy. We must be able to demonstrate that we have done our homework and submitted the new plan, after which we can look at the other major polluters in the world to do the same. As has just been said, there are still two European Councils where this can be knocked off, in October and December. In the light of climate diplomacy, it is important that a decision be taken in October, so that a new plan can be submitted and that Belgium takes an active role in it and does present itself as one of the pioneers of increasing ambition to at least 55% by 2030. What does all this mean for Belgium and the interparliamentary climate dialogue? The European Union will increase the objective. That dynamic is there. The European Commission wants it. The European Parliament wants it. The European Parliament has already voted for 60% reduction at European level. The Belgian National Energy and Climate Plan will therefore have to be adapted. This decision will have an impact on Belgium's objectives. Many countries are already increasing their national plans. It is now up to Belgium to start doing so. This should not be delayed until the objective is fixed and divided. It is clear that we will have to make a firm effort. We need to get started on that right now. The interparliamentary climate dialogue must initiate this dynamic in order to start discussions and make a real difference. For example, the new National Energy and Climate Plan can be based on sufficient ambition, cooperation and strengthening the regions and the federal government to achieve this ambition together. The carbon markets are extremely important and it is extremely important that these markets are properly designed. They have the potential to completely undermine the Paris Agreement. We have a lot to say about that. It is also a very technical matter. We'll deal with that next year. Then I can come and explain the matter in great detail. In other words, the markets must be properly designed so that they do not undermine the Paris Agreement. Human rights and the importance of sustainable development in these carbon markets must also be taken into account. Under the Kyoto Protocol, we have seen that this was often not the case. Another important issue is the financing of loss and damage. However, I will not dwell on that either. This issue is very important for next year. With regard to international climate financing, I will dwell on the fact that there is an important Belgian part there, for which we are looking at the iInterparliamentary climate dialogue. This deals with the promised funding under the UN Climate Treaty of historical polluters, the rich countries to developing countries to assist them in their climate challenges. This therefore concerns low-carbon development and adaptation to the effects of the climate crisis already in place. There, too, the deadline was set for 2020. The rich countries have promised to provide USD 100 billion annually for this funding from 2020. An important topic that will also be discussed at COP26 is looking ahead to a new target by 2025, but that too has been postponed to next year. I will look into what that means for Belgium later on. What are we looking at this interparliamentary climate dialogue for? What topics does the Climate Coalition see as a priority at the moment? At the moment that is not COP26 because it has moved to next year, but that does not mean that there are no other important issues to discuss. Nicolas has already looked more closely at the reconstruction, which should be in function of achieving the sustainable development objectives and climate objectives. For us, this also seems to be an interesting subject for the interparliamentary climate dialogue, in order to ensure that relance is carried out in this way and that the same mistakes are not repeated as in the past. Another point is climate governance. It is on your agenda, and you have a meeting on this in December. That's important. So I will not dwell too much on this, too, but I would just like to reiterate that climate governance is putting a huge brake on climate ambition, climate cooperation and climate policy in Belgium. A thorough reform of this is needed. There's a new federal government. This means that there are now fully-fledged governments once again that can take important steps. The federal government's coalition agreement contains a number of commitments to better co-operate with the Länder and a number of proposals to address climate governance. So we are really looking at the coming months to take steps and the interparliamentary climate dialogue to tackle this in depth. Another issue that is very closely linked to this is the distribution of the climate targets for 2030. I would remind you of what happened in 2020. Those objectives were negotiated for years behind closed doors, which made it too late to start implementing them at the time the distribution was completed. We must avoid this in the 2030 debate. We are also looking at you to ask for transparency about this. Where are these talks taking place? Are they working on it yet? Who's in what position? Are we taking into account the increase in ambition that is coming? That is also important, because if we divide now on the basis of the current ambition and not look to the future, then we can start again soon. These are a number of important issues in which you can certainly play a role. I will conclude with one final point: international climate finance. This is also a subject for which we are really looking at Belgium and the interparliamentary climate dialogue. There's that strong link to COP26. That's why I'm getting into it a little bit more now. There is the link with international negotiations in general, but above all, there is a momentum. There is currently a commitment from Belgium to spend EUR 50 million per year on climate finance until 2020. This means that a new commitment will have to be made as of next year. Actually, there's a momentum to talk about that right now. It is necessary to clarify as soon as possible what this funding will be for Belgium. What are we asking of Belgium? We are asking for a very drastic increase in funding. Belgium has contributed EUR 50 million so far, and that has been its commitment since the start of climate finance. So there is no increase in this, while international promises were made that this would increase. Fifty million euros is a particularly small contribution in the light of an international target of USD 100 billion. We have actually been asking for years to increase it. We have now also calculated how much the Belgian contribution should be. We have calculated this on the basis of the capacity that Belgium has, that is, the wealth of our country, but also the responsibility that Belgium has in causing the climate crisis. Those are two principles that are also embedded in the UN Climate Treaty, which is not taken out of the blue. Those are really principles that determine what countries should do. On this basis, we have calculated that a fair contribution from Belgium is EUR 500 million per year. It is important to note that this funding should not weigh on the budget of development cooperation. At present, almost all of the climate finance we provide from Belgium is also reported as development cooperation. At the same time, the budget for development cooperation is falling, reducing overall resources rather than additional resources. That is a very big problem. Why are we now looking at the interparliamentary climate dialogue to work around it? It is a Belgian commitment, but it is both the regions and the federal government that contribute to international climate financing. There must therefore be an agreement between these different entities on what the Belgian commitment will be in the coming years. This is also linked to the effort sharing for 2030. The 2020 targets included renewable energy, emissions, targets, climate finance and the distribution of emissions trading revenues. That will probably be linked now, so it is also linked to the discussion about effort sharing. International climate finance is an issue that comes up very high on the agenda every time there are international negotiations and has an important impact on confidence in the negotiations and on the position that countries can take on these negotiations. For this reason, it is also an important issue to coordinate between the Länder and the federal government. That is why we are looking at the interparliamentary climate dialogue to make this work. You have already discussed this in the discussion of the previous interparliamentary climate resolution. There are a number of points that we are putting forward for the interparliamentary climate dialogue. Above all, we want to stress that we are convinced of the strength of the dialogue and that we certainly want to maintain it. We must also strengthen this dialogue in the light of climate governance that is stuck at other levels. It really is a driving force for better climate cooperation in Belgium. We certainly want to emphasise that. Some of the issues we put forward are the relance post-corona in a fair and sustainable way, transparency in the distribution of 2030 targets and international climate finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u7	Madam President, rest assured, I will not speak for more than thirty seconds. I do not think it necessary to recall the messages I made during the introduction. In terms of ambition, the political situation is relatively clear. The European Commission proposed 55%, while the European Parliament adopted an amendment this morning calling for 60%. The final resolution has yet to be approved. We must wait for the Council's opinion, but we know that there is a qualified majority in the European Union to enhance ambition. I can only call you to one initiative. Today, the only realistic way is to prepare for an increase in ambition to undertake the necessary transformation of our economy, so as to leave the carbon economy in a generation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u8	I thank the representatives of the Climate Coalition for their presentation. We will continue with a first round of statements with the heads of delegation who will ask their questions. Next, the speakers will respond. I invite those who ask their questions to clarify who they are addressing. Then we will move on to a second round of speaking, in line with the D'Hondt key, where the members of the various parties will be able to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u9	Frau Vorsitzende, ich finde es besonders sympathisch, dass man hier mit der kleinsten Einheit Belgiens anfängt, um dann zu den Grö b eren zu kommen, wobei Belgien insgesamt in diese Frage auch klein ist. Die Deutschsprachige Gemeinschaft übt erst seit 2020 gewisse Zuständigkeiten im Bereich der Energiepolitik aus, aber sie hat natürlich nicht die grö b ste Zuständigkeiten in diesem Bereich. Ich möchte hier zwei Fragen stellen. Herr Wittoeck, ich würde gerne von Ihr wissen, was die wichtigste Gründe sind, nach Ihre Meinung, warum Belgien sich nicht auf Klimaneutralität festlegen will. Ich gebe zu, die Frage ist ein bisschen rhetorisch. Den Vertreterinnen der Klimakoalition, sehen Sie für Ihre Arbeit und Ihre Mitglieder eine Möglichkeit, einen konkrete Beitrag zum Zustandekommen der Zusammenarbeit zu leisten, die sicherlich in den belgische Bundesstaaten nötig ist, zwischen der föderale Ebene, den regionale und Gemeinschaftsebenen und den kommunale Ebenen, damit wir die Zielen, die jetzt hier im Raumen stehen und von der EU bekräftigt und verstärkt sind, effektiv erreichen können? Sie haben gesagt, dass Sie das wünschen und fordern. Das ist sehr richtig. Sie haben da auch recht. Sehen Sie eine Möglichkeit, einen konkrete Beitrag dazu zu leisten, dass es zu diese Entscheidungen und Orientierung kommt?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u10	Thank you, Herr Lambertz.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u11	Madam President, I have a question for Mr Wittoeck. Setting targets is not so difficult. We can set very high and very ambitious targets. The problem is to get them and realize them afterwards. You said that the 2014 targets were divided among countries mainly on the basis of GDP, although cost efficiency and solidarity had originally been clearly highlighted. Those ambitions are now being increased for Europe. Is there any chance that we can put cost-efficiency higher on the agenda, which makes it possible to make the biggest reduction in Europe where it costs the least? I want to put it very plastically. Suppose we could reduce 10% in Bulgaria for a much lower cost instead of 3% in Belgium, would we have an instrument that would allow us to use Europe where we can achieve the greatest efficiency? Is there any possibility of that in your eyes? Are there instruments for that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u12	Madam Chair, first of all, I would like to thank you for organizing this meeting today, and for the services of the House. It is true that, in preparing this session, we had proposed a number of people to be heard at Brussels Parliament level, and several groups had insisted that civil society should be involved in our work. Thank you for your attention. First a short testimony. On Monday I participated in a climate interparliamentary conference at European level, organised by the Bundestag under the current European presidency of Germany. I would like to state here that there is something quite clear: the fact that the European Union sets a strong ambition has a real leverage effect on States and on parliamentarians. Discussions took place. Some countries, some representatives said, "It's going to be hard to reach this ambition." Others, our Scandinavian friends, said, "No, the ambitions are not strong enough, they need to be enhanced." In any case, it was felt that the fact that a course was set really had a concrete consequence. I did not properly prepare any questions. I shall leave the floor to the parliamentary group. I would just like to say that in our discussions in the Brussels Parliament, the subject of governance has come up on various occasions. Our interparliamentary conference will work on this: governance, in its aspects of the distribution of objectives, of ambitions between entities, but also in its aspect of the ability for Belgium to make a strong voice at the level of the European Union and the various international organisations. I agree with my colleague from the German-speaking Parliament and address the representatives of the Climate Coalition: could you tell us a little more about your expectations with regard to the political world on this point? I mean, I have a more personal question. Basically, we know that there are also threats to climate ambitions, things that are in some way parasitizing our ambitions, and I am thinking in particular of the Energy Charter Treaty, which is being renegotiated. I would like to know whether the panel proposed to us today has any reflections on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u13	Madam Chair, I thank the speakers for their very interesting presentations. All parties present in the Walloon Parliament are particularly concerned about the climate challenge. This is a huge challenge for humanity, and we are well aware of it, even though all parties of course have a different strategy to respond to it. The regional policy statement indicates an ambition of at least 55% for 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2050. We hope that the other regions of the country will align themselves with this objective. We are counting on the impetus of the new federal government to also address this very great challenge. That is for the particular questions. I will take the floor again in the second round table for my parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u14	On behalf of the House of Representatives, I would like to ask a question which may be addressed to Mr Wittoeck in particular. In the framework of the Federal Parliament's Climate Committee, among our reflections, we have addressed, through specific hearings, the question of the preservation of biodiversity under the prism of the fight against pandemics. We've talked about it in the last few months. I therefore wondered whether it was possible, whether it was possible and relevant in the discussions to be able to also address this topic, possibly at COP level. Have you ever had any contacts or exchanges on this particular subject, which is currently being debated in the House of Representatives and which concerns the preservation of biodiversity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u15	As far as the organization of our work is concerned, I propose that all the speakers, Mr Wittoeck and representatives of the Climate Coalition, be able to answer all the first questions, with a maximum time of 10 minutes each. Then we will move on to the second round of speaking. I give the floor first to Mr. Wittoeck and then to the representatives of the Climate Coalition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u16	I shall begin with Mr Lambertz's question, but not in German, because my German is not so good. Mr Lambertz, you referred to it as a rhetorical question, but I will answer it anyway. The reason why, unlike other European Member States, Belgium has not explicitly set the objective of becoming climate neutral is, as always, a little double. When Belgium submitted its long-term strategy to the European Commission at the beginning of this year, this was, as often, a compilation of three regional strategies. A limited part was overlapping. The Belgian objective for horizon 2050 is the sum of the three constituent parts. The Walloon Region has the objective of becoming carbon neutral. The Brussels-Capital Region also supports the European goal of becoming carbon neutral by 2050 and wants to evolve in this direction. The Flemish Region has the objective of reducing emissions by 85% compared to 2005 in the non-ETS sectors, but not throughout the economy as opposed to the other two regions. If we add these things together, which is not really possible, because on the ETS side we cannot make the sum, then Belgium will not come up with the kind of climate neutrality that can be seen in the Commission's scenarios, i.e. about 95 percent of emissions and compensate the rest with negative emissions. I said that the answer is double, because when the Consultative Committee adopted the national long-term strategy, it explicitly called its decision to update a minimum commitment at regular intervals. The Consultative Committee thus confirms the common will to strive for carbon neutrality. On the one hand, therefore, there are the concrete strategies, the figures of which cannot be added to achieve climate neutrality at national level, but on the other hand, there is the announcement of a process of updating the strategy in the context of carbon neutrality. I do not want to make too much exegesis of the language of the Consultative Committee, but the one-and-a-half degree objective of the Paris Agreement also refers to 'to strive', if I am not mistaken. That's a pretty literal synonym of Dutch "achieving." Mr Muyters, how can we, even now, include cost-effectiveness in the distribution of efforts? If you have looked at the graphs I show you, both historical and current distribution, and what a possible distribution could be, being the simulations of the said 55%, then you will see that the cost-effectiveness is taken into account in the sense that the slope of justice for the richer Member States that are further on their cost curve and have relatively higher reduction costs is already partly taken into account. However, that is just an introduction to my answer. A second aspect is what I showed you about the current objectives. The aforementioned 38%, which would have been the distribution based on the per capita gross domestic product and already related to what I just mentioned to you, could be partly reduced on the basis of cost-effectiveness. That 3% was based on the argument of cost-effectiveness. The cost-effectiveness can therefore also be charged to that man. However, there is another important element that I have not mentioned and which was included in the position-taking of the coalition of ten small rich Member States, being the like-minded countries. This is the fact that, although limited, flexibility should be made available, which already exists in the current period and which largely continues to exist in the period 2021-2030, which we are now discussing. I cannot make a preliminaries for what will happen once the new objective has been approved. However, it seems relevant to me to use this in order to improve cost-effectiveness. You almost gave the answer when you asked your question. How can we ensure that we can use the relatively cheaper emission reductions in Member States, often the poorer Member States, which also have a greater "cheap" reduction potential? It seems to me that this can be done through emissions trading. It is somewhat similar to the ETS, but between Member States with the rights granted to Member States. An important question is how Belgium, as a small Member State of the European Union, will ensure that this is included in the debate. As a reminder, that is why I described how the objective was achieved at the time. Mr Muyters, I refer to the first part of your question. The European Council in October 2014 set the target with the support of Belgium. Next, the debate on how to increase cost-effectiveness in concrete terms was successfully conducted by Belgium. This was done in a constructive way and in a coalition with other Member States. Allow me to share my analysis with you: Belgium is not currently in that kind of situation. Because of Belgium's position or lack of position in the context of that debate, it is particularly difficult to keep the small rich Member States with relatively high emission reduction costs in our natural allies. If you place the displayed card of the like-minded countries on the map with countries that require more ambition, you can see for a large amount of overlap. Belgium is currently a little isolated, I'm afraid. To answer your question, Madam President, the climate crisis has become one of the main causes of biodiversity loss. This has long been known, but the intimate relationship between climate policy and biodiversity has not been sufficiently taken into account. This is not only about climate as a cause of biodiversity loss, but also about how to prevent climate policy from further exacerbating the debate on biofuels, carbon sinks, etc. The link exists at several levels and is very important. It is also – it seems to me – present in the European debate. Personally, I am not this debate, but I have the impression that it is being discussed at all levels. Thus, it seems that at the level of climate policy, the links with biodiversity policy are taken into account. This is also linked to COP 15 on biodiversity and the issues that have been addressed and are on the agenda. I hope that I have answered all the questions that have been asked to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u17	Madam President, I will have to be brief about the importance of the 55% target for Belgium at European level, because it is difficult to address all the measures and all the sectors where change is needed. However, studies already show that the transition to a low carbon society in Belgium will be particularly positive and will provide jobs, that Belgium is one of the countries in Europe that has the most to gain, but only if we start the transition now. There's a bit of a problem. At present, climate policy objectives are often seen as a burden, as a problem. The allocation of climate objectives for 2020 was referred to as Burden Sharing. That says enough in my eyes. It is not a burden, it is an opportunity, which we must address now. We need a mentality switch. How should we deal with this in Belgium? Of course, different measures must be taken on a sector-by-sector basis. What we find interesting as an approach is, for example, the method that has been applied in the Netherlands: targets have been set for each sector and the various stakeholders have thought about how this sector can evolve towards carbon neutrality in the long term. In doing so, the various stakeholders participate and social justice aspects are also taken into account in the transition in order to impose very clear objectives by sector. Very closely linked with this is the national conference for a fair transition, which we as a Climate Coalition are asking, where really, again with all stakeholders around the table, we are thinking about how we are going to move towards carbon neutrality in the long term. An important aspect that is linked to this is, of course, governance, because at the moment cooperation in Belgium is putting a brake on this, which makes the whole climate story a difficult issue. However, if governance improves and the regions and the federal government together make a positive story of this and cooperate better, we could seize much better opportunities. Many studies show how Belgium can move towards climate neutrality. Last year, with Sign for my Future, a study was launched by a number of experts and there was also another study of experts who were addressed by the young people who came out on the street. These studies are there and we are asking for a policy that is much more inspired by the scientific studies and by the experts, who know what they are talking about. In this respect, we therefore call for the whole debate on governance and improving cooperation to include the setting up of an expert committee to provide effective academic and scientific support for climate policy so that the right choices can be made. Mr Van Nuffel will also answer about the Energy Charter Treaty. In many cases, this international trade agreement puts a huge brake on international and national climate policy. There's a problem. The modernisation that is going on must be very drastic and, if that is not possible, Belgium must get out of that treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u18	Thank you. I invite you to refer to a series of studies, in particular on the concrete contributions and the question of how to reach 55%, and if that is realistic. In our power point you will receive, you will find a series of proposals developed by the Climate Coalition and, in particular, our memorandum presented at the time of the 2019 elections which we update but which remains globally relevant with proposed measures in the fields of transport, energy, buildings, etc. We don't have time to detail all this this morning We remain available to meet with you and to participate in your work as well as those of the regional levels. For example, the Walloon Region has invited the Climate Coalition to be part of the actors involved in the development of the Get up Wallonia plan! which allows us to really get into the heart of the matter on a whole series of issues. Of course, we are available for all the entities that make up this country. I will refer by name to two studies, of which I invite you to read: the first is the Eurofound Foundation, a European tripartite foundation. This study that we can send you in the follow-up to the meeting highlights how Belgium is the second out of 27 countries that have the most to gain, in economic terms, to increase ambition to 55%. It is the first country in terms of job creation. I also invite you to read about the work of Climact, the office of engineers who have done very extensive technical studies. They have worked extensively with federal and regional public services. They have established three scenarios for increasing ambition at European level. You can go "play" on their website because, within each scenario, you can make choices yourself to see what directions you are taking. There is a 55% highly technology-based scenario, another 55% based on a mix of technologies and behavioral changes, and one 65% of which they demonstrate feasibility, even if it is drastic. In terms of governance, I want to refer the matter back to you. We strongly supported a proposal from the academic world to establish a special climate law, a special law that had to pass both before the House and the Senate, i.e. it required representation of the federated entities. Democracy has spoken and we did not get this special climate law in the previous legislature. However, we continue to believe that it would lead to a significant improvement in governance. But what you, the political decision-makers, said at that time (not all political parties took the same position) was that the system of cooperation agreements worked and could work better. I can therefore only challenge both the Federal State, the Regions and the Communities to operate what exists today and to obtain as soon as possible a cooperation agreement on burden sharing for the period 2021-2030, not only on emission reduction ambitions but also on other elements such as climate finance, of which my colleague Lien Vandamme has spoken and which she has developed. With regard to the Energy Charter Treaty, it is difficult to expose it in two and a half minutes. I think this subject really deserves a two-hour discussion. I'm just going to explain what the Energy Charter Treaty is. It is a broad plurilateral treaty involving the European Union, a series of emerging and developing countries and countries like Japan. This vast investment protection treaty was developed in the non-tantial years at the end of the Cold War to ensure the security of energy supply. It is in force today and its main problem, I would say, is the presence of an investor-state dispute settlement clause, the famous ISDS that we talked about so much at the time of TTIP and CETA. This ISDS clause is already being used today by a whole range of investors, first as a ratchet mechanism to avoid the transition from fossil energy to renewable energy - this is part of the danger - and second, to attack a whole range of economic, social and environmental measures that are being taken by states. This Treaty is in force today. It's a renegotiation that's under way. The European Commission's mandate is to modernise the Treaty and first bring it into line with the Paris Agreement. Today, this agreement lags behind the commitments made by the European Union and all UN Member States in the Paris Agreement. Secondly, it is a matter of reviewing this ISDS mechanism because you know that no matter what opinion one can have on the various stages of the ISDS or the ICS in the CETA and the Multilateral Court on investment proposed by the Commission. In any case, we would certainly have proposals to make in order to improve the content of CETA today and even more so the Multilateral Court's proposal on investment, but this is an improvement over the traditional ISDS, which is a great danger. The European Union is trying to get a review, but this is going to be extremely difficult, because Japan absolutely does not want to hear about a modernisation of ISDS. This has led to the fact that there is no investment agreement. You know that there is a trade agreement between the European Union and Japan, but there is no investment component because Japan is sticking to the traditional ISDS that we now believe is outdated. Our call is clearly to negotiate very firmly with countries like Japan on this issue to make this agreement compatible with the Paris agreement and in case, consider an exit. That's what we do in some countries. Italy thus announced, two or three years ago, that it was leaving this Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u19	Thank you to the speakers for their answers. I also thank the heads of delegation for their questions. I now propose that you proceed to the second round of speaking. The first member to speak will be the representative of the N-VA, Mr Gryffroy. We will therefore look at all the questions. Then I will give the floor to the speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u20	Madam President, in order to compare the figures correctly, it would be useful to compare them. For example, in the government agreement, Flanders agreed to go for non-ETS to -35 % by 2030 compared to 2005. What Europe is trying to adopt through amendments is a 60% reduction by 2030 compared to 1990, both for ETS and non-ETS. In the new federal government agreement, Belgium is talking about a reduction of -55 % by 2030. However, it is not clear to us whether this is based on the 1990 figures. I suppose this is the case, but it is only non-ETS. Indeed, the ETS falls within European competence. In some graph this was briefly quoted. This -35 % for Flanders by 2030 is based on the reference year 2005, but what will this be compared to 1990 as a reference year? What would it mean if Europe started from the 2005 situation with a split between ETS and non-ETS? It may be said that this is a single pot, but the individual countries are only responsible for non-ETS, because Europe decides on the ETS. So there is some confusion here and this has to be clearly aligned.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u21	For the ECOLO Group, I give the floor to Mr Jean-Philippe Florent, my colleague from the province of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our meeting could not be better off. Today, in preparation for the Glasgow COP, a government agreement setting a target of at least 55% by 2030 on the ETS and non-ETS package is adopted; moreover, this morning, a very clear signal from the European Parliament is sent to the Member States, but also to the world in general: a binding climate law, which will set a 60% reduction (it still has to pass through a resolution of course). There is still one amendment which, to my knowledge, has not yet been voted on this morning, namely whether carbon neutrality will be applied throughout the European Union or by state, which is more than a nuance. We'll see what happens. But in any case, Belgium will have to increase its own ambitions. And we must do everything we can to get there. We have no choice. The European Parliament, the Commission through its Green deal and the Council urge us to do so. The opportunities are interesting. This is a step that we must take decisively. As Mr. Wittoeck said, the current urgency, political and technical, will be to deposit our nationally determined contribution (NDC) by the end of the year. A few questions about this: what is lacking in practice to finalise it, apart from the burden sharing 2021-2026? Will we be in time? Will our next NDC take into account the federal government's new target of 55%? Otherwise, on what path are we on? Europe is pushing us to action. Today, it is the global engine of climate action. It is also, unfortunately, I want to say, the driving force for Belgium because our country has so far not been able to be in the most ambitious, the most avant-garde states. And I am addressing this question to Mrs Vandamme, who has highlighted a certain lack of transparency in decisions and in our climate governance. What are your concrete proposals for this House in order to increase transparency and the publicity of the debates, on the understanding that we do not want institutional reform today that would be rather blocking? Making the process work as it can is certainly the priority. I finish, I see I'm already late. I beg your pardon. An important point concerns European funding in relation to climate action. The current recovery plan has three limitations. He's got a time limit. It is limited to three years. It has a limit in the amounts available. Belgium will only have a maximum of 5.1 billion. And that of the proportion of resources allocated to climate action: 37%. The Walloon Parliament wants to send a resolution asking for own resources. We've already talked about it. I think it is also a message that we can send from this chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u23	I call on the next speakers to respect the time limit. Mr Laurent Léonard of the Wallonia Parliament will represent the PS Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u24	Madam President, as you will have understood, our head of delegation from the Wallonia Parliament wished to take the floor of his political party. As the CNCD-11.11.11 has recently indicated, a fairer distribution of global resources is more necessary than ever. Of course, we are all aware that the crisis of VOCID-19 has aggravated international inequalities. While they were not responsible, developing countries already lacked the capacity to deal effectively with the climate crisis. Their vulnerability has worsened with the crisis of coronavirus. We've already talked about it. The latter has important health, economic and social consequences. Reconstruction, after the pandemic, represents an opportunity to build a more sustainable and resilient society, both in Belgium and in Europe and in developing countries. As a reminder, at COP 15 in 2009 in Copenhagen, rich countries made a commitment to international climate finance, with a view to achieving the collective target of $100 billion annually, new and additional, for 2020. This is an issue of solidarity, but above all justice, given the responsibility of the biggest polluters in the context of the climate crisis. According to the same authors, Belgium is no exception and must therefore also contribute fairly and equitably to climate finance, by increasing its participation from 2021 to reach 500 million euros per year by 2023. Furthermore, it must ensure that this contribution does not weigh on the development cooperation budget, while ensuring that funding for adaptation is given priority and paying particular attention to the most vulnerable countries. Mr. Wittoeck, what is your analysis of these recommendations from the CNCD-11.11.11, who are full members of the Climate Coalition? In your opinion, and very concretely, what sources of funding could Belgium use to review its rising participation in international climate finance? I am thinking of the kerosene tax and a specific climate fund. By the way, I recall that our country's commitment to international climate finance expires at the end of this year. A new commitment will be needed between the Regions and the federal government by then. It therefore seems to me important to place this international funding at the centre of COP 26 negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u25	Madam President, it is true that this morning we are perhaps going to -60 percent in the European climate law. We also know from the coalition agreement that the government firmly, literally, supports European ambitions. Mr Witttoeck, you say that by the end of 2020 a national adapted plan will be sent to the UN. I think this is for next year's European Council. We therefore have a little more time to see the negotiations between Mrs Demir and Mrs Khattabi, which I think are very pleasant. Can you give me the timetable of the federal action plan? I will also take the adjustments to the national energy and climate plan from the federal government agreement. Is it true that there is currently no detailed impact analysis at Member State level? Mrs von der Leyen has said that we have done the impact analysis at European level, but what about at Member State level? What is the timing of the Recovery and Resilience Plans? There is confusion about that in the press. One speaks of 15 October for the national recovery plans, with an important part of almost 40% to be linked to the Green Deal. However, I thought it was a time fork from 15 October until the end of April 2021 at the latest. There will be another spicy negotiation. If I follow Mr Diependaele, Flemish Minister for Finance, an intra-Belgian agreement will have to be reached on which projects go to which part of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u26	Madam President, some believe that the postponement of COP26 represents a new year of lost. NGOs and experts agree to alert to the risk of climate issues being set aside. This health crisis can also be an opportunity for states to include new climate ambitions. Is this postponement a good or a bad thing, in your opinion? What can states put in place to use this time wisely for the climate? The European Union announced its Green Deal last year and things are getting in order. It is important to see whether European decisions can lead other regions of the world, of Europe, to move forward. Regions are on the front line. Are they ambitious enough, in your opinion? On the other hand, a number of large countries are waiting for the outcome of the presidential elections in the United States to come out of the woods. This one-year postponement of the COP may be appropriate in the light of certain issues, such as the US elections. Is this not an encouragement for the European Union to assert and maintain its leadership and reach out to other countries that might follow? Our country also stressed the blue character of the last Conference of the Parties, the "blue COP". It was expected that this dialogue would continue. That is why our country has joined many states and called for the protection of 30 per cent of the oceans by 2030. We also insist that the negotiations for an ambitious and effective treaty on the protection of biodiversity, outside national jurisdictions, be concluded, in particular with regard to the creation of marine protected areas. Can you give us more details on the status of work on the climate and oceans link? What projects are planned for COP26? International cooperation was also mentioned in the presentations made. Could projects be supported from our regions, particularly Brussels? I come back to the Brussels government, which is committed to approaching the European goal of carbon neutrality by 2050. The transition requires an integrated and concerted approach between the levels of power in Belgium and the operators, with a clear and binding division of roles. What are the means to achieve the necessary consultation? What about the modes of governance? What are the expectations of the Regions? Colleagues, we do not have parliamentarians present and zoom in on the CD&V. We shall therefore turn to the next group and I give the floor again to Mr Hermant for the PVDA-PTB.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, we had some questions about the various presentations. The first question is somewhat in line with the previous question. What will be the effect of the COP26 postponement and what are the preparations at Belgian level? Can you give us a schedule of the preparation and decision times for the determination of the Belgian position at COP26? Perhaps this will make it possible to better organize our work. At COP26 itself, what topics will they determine the agenda? What is the status of increasing climate targets in other countries? What will be the scale of emission gaps? I had questions about Article 6, but I propose to pass them, given that we do not have much time, and rather to talk about international climate finance. I am speaking instead to the people of the climate coalition. The CNCD-11.11.11 therefore calls on Belgium to provide at least EUR 500 million to support international climate financing. In its coalition agreement, the new Belgian government is committed to increasing contributions to international climate finance independently of the development cooperation budget. Have any agreements been reached on this matter? What is the federal government's commitment? Do you have any returns? Since in recent years 84% to 99% of climate finance came from the cooperation budget, how can we ensure that climate aid does not come from development aid, but rather from it? Why not use part of the Kyoto Fund, largely unused, for example in Wallonia? What do you think of the CNCD-11.11.11's proposal to draw money from this international fund at source? What are the current discussions and what are the issues involved in these discussions regarding the new burden sharing agreement with other federated entities regarding inter-party efforts? The previous agreement ends at the end of December 2020, but this question is addressed to Mr Wittoeck. What guarantees can you provide to those who fear that these funds will be used to weaken the political and economic sovereignty of the beneficiary countries? This question is also addressed to Mr. Wittoeck if he has time to answer. The Chair: For Open Vld, we do not see any participants in the room or in video conferencing. So we're going to sp.a.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u28	The Chinese leader saw it, in this time controlled by corona, as a warning from Mother Earth. I wouldn't go that far. In the coalition agreement, we see it rather as an opportunity, linking economic relance to sustainable transition. There are a lot of details in the agreement. Europe has also decided to strengthen its ambitions. Mr Witttoeck, can you give us more information on possible sanctions? What will Europe do if someone ignores the ambitions or does not? I heard the question from the Flemish Parliament's delegation leader on cost efficiency. I understand from your answer that this is not really relevant, because in the European Emissions Trading System there are reductions where the most economically efficient is. Outside the system, I assume that everyone will do their duty, whether they are buildings or transport. A comparison was made with Bulgaria. The economic cost of congestion in Belgium will be higher than in Bulgaria. I'm assuming everyone has to do their damn duty. Mrs. Vandamme, you said climate policy can create jobs. Perhaps it is not time to turn that around, not as an opportunity, but rather as a threat? Should we not look at whether we will lose jobs by 2050 in heavy industrial sectors that will no longer be able to compete in climate-neutral Europe? Are there any figures on that? Have any studies been carried out on this? It may be time to make the voice of business more effective. In the coalition agreement, therefore, it is registered to work with climate tables, as has happened in the Netherlands. That is a question for all the speakers. The working method should be further developed in the Federal Parliament, but it is logical that all regions, all stakeholders, should be involved. All the suggestions you have today to get these climate tables organized properly, I'd be happy to take them with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u29	For the CDH, I give the floor to Mr. From Beukelaar.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u30	Madam Chair, I have four questions. First, could we take stock of the results of the 2013-2020 commitments? I don't know if you said it, Mr. Wittoeck. Can you remind us of the famous 15% for Wallonia and Flanders and 8.8% for Brussels? To what extent have they been achieved so that we can take stock? Secondly, there is not yet a return to the PNEC on the part of the European Commission. Are we waiting for this return soon at the procedural level? It would, of course, be interesting to receive it before seeing it again, given the increase in ambitions. The target of 55% for 2030 is very important for the CDH for a variety of reasons, including the possibility to negotiate better cost-effectiveness at European level. If I may say so, the Brussels, Walloon, federal and German-speaking governments have set that objective in their government agreement. Do you confirm that there are only Flanders as institutional players to convince and then the problem is solved, we will then enter into 55%, or is the problem more complicated than that? If so, where are the obstacles? I am willingly a little provoking, but it is with the aim of narrowing down the remaining obstacles. Otherwise, I feel like there's an een groot draagvlak for that 55%. Fourth, international financing. I have read the CNCD memorandum, which says that we must increase from EUR 100 million to EUR 500 million for international financing by 2023. Have you analysed the various regional and federal policy statements at this augurs and the multi-year budget plans to determine whether commitments are planned and made and also to find out where the package is hurting?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u31	For DeFI, I give the floor to Mrs Nagy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u32	Madam President, I thank the speakers. My first observation is to welcome the ambitions set upwards. I welcome the fact that the European Union has adopted the Green Deal and that progress is being made on climate issues. There are, however, two questions that concern me. At the level of Belgium, Mr Wittoeck mentioned, it was rather three Energy-Climate plans that were tabled without any articulation between the three and without any real feasibility since the whole budget or funding component was relatively absent or even unclear. Do you have more information on the articulation of plans and their feasibility in terms of funding? Secondly, on the nuclear side, the new government confirmed our exit from nuclear power. This raises questions in terms of electricity supply. Is this data integrated in the success of the 2030 targets essentially?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u33	Each speaker has 15 minutes to answer all the questions put to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u34	Madam President, first of all, I would like to address the questions raised about international climate finance and governance. I'll start with international climate finance. Two questions were asked about this. The first was what commitments have already been made and what is stated in the various government agreements on the budget for this purpose. The second was where these resources should come from and how this additionality can be guaranteed so that it does not weigh on the development budget. In connection with the government agreements, the new federal government agreement contains the commitment to opt for increasing funding. That's good. That is in line with international agreements. That is something our country has failed to do in the last ten years. It's a good commitment. It also explicitly states that it should not weigh on the development budget. That's very interesting. That was not in the previous federal coalition agreement and was not applied in practice either. We are therefore looking forward to seeing how this will be made concrete. That's where the shoe's gonna crack. At the moment, there is no clarity as to how much money is involved and how additionality will be foreseen. It is now waiting for the budgets to be released. The same applies to development cooperation. It is explicitly stated that there will be a growth path to 0,7 %. It is actually about a substantial increase in that budget and about a significant increase in the climate finance budget. It has also been stated in the government agreement that climate finance will go through DGD. DGD is funding development cooperation at the moment. We look forward to that substantial increase, but it is not yet in writing. The Flemish government agreement also includes a commitment to international climate finance. That's a little more vague. There is no talk of an increasing contribution but it is said to maintain climate ambition and international climate financing is part of it. That is also mentioned in the coalition agreement, as a follow-up to that commitment, that priority will be given to projects in which Flemish companies can participate. This is a problematic addition for us, not because we think that Flemish companies can never make effective climate financing, but because the priorities in this area are weirdly formulated. The aim of international climate financing is to assist the most vulnerable countries in their climate challenges. The funding must be based on that objective and not on an economic objective. That is a point of attention in that regard. I must honestly admit that I do not know explicitly what is in the Brussels and Walloon governments agreement on climate finance, but I do know that there are currently no concrete commitments from the regions or the federal government in this area post 2020, so that is still a great work to be done. How can additionality be guaranteed? That is a difficult issue, because there are a lot of aspects involved, in particular where the funds come from, how they are spent and how they are reported on. Allow me to give you an example. We have been asking for years for innovative sources of funding to be used to make funding additional. We explicitly ask for the funds from emissions trading revenues to be used for this purpose. That was done in 2016, because then the funds were released after an agreement on Burden Sharing and several regions used them for climate finance. For example, the Flemish Government re-reported these funds as official development cooperation in the same year. It is good that there is transparency on this, but we happen to see in the figures that year a sharp reduction in the budget for development cooperation. This is not visible as a whole, as the budget remains the same or increases slightly, but climate finance is included. If the budget for development cooperation does not increase to the same extent as the budget of the ETS funds for climate finance that has been invested, there is still no question of additionality. So it's a difficult matter. It concerns the mobilisation of new resources, innovative sources of funding, such as the ETS resources, but also other sources based on the polluter pays principle, for example a kerosene tax. However, transparent reporting is also included, so that it is possible to see a possible decline in the development budget, so that the funding flows are clear. A third aspect that depends on it is the use of resources. The question arises as to whether the funds are spent effectively on projects that have a primary objective of climate adaptation and mitigation. Very often, development projects from Belgium are made climate-relevant, which is of course very important. A development project in 2020 that is not climate-relevant or that is not adapted to climate reality is unsustainable. However, we see that these projects are also reported as development cooperation and climate finance. Again, there is no added value in terms of climate. This, too, is an important aspect of additionality. You all, myself or my colleague Rebecca Thissen, have received a briefing on climate finance, in which it is fully explained. If there are any further questions, I would certainly like to come back to that later. In the area of governance, the question is how to improve transparency. We could devote another 4 hours to this governance, and I believe that you will do so in December, which is a good thing. Two aspects are important. Firstly, it is about the correct application of what already exists. There is a cooperation agreement from 2002 with which the National Climate Commission was set up and a correct application of this agreement would actually solve a lot. For example, transparency towards Parliament is included in that cooperation agreement, whereas at the moment, I know, there is hardly any report from the National Climate Commission to Parliament. There are more things in it that are interesting to take steps in the area of transparency. If we look at the 2030 Burden Sharing, which is now urgent, then you can already ask for a better application of the current cooperation agreement. That's the first step. The second step is the revision of the agreement and thus the mandate of the National Climate Commission. It looks at how the committee can work better and focus more on transparency, with fewer meetings behind closed doors but more meetings in total. The official meetings of the National Climate Commission are now limited to 3 to 4 per year. This needs to be thoroughly revised. The whole discussion on the special climate law has emerged from the work of over a year, with various seminars on improving climate governance. A group of academics proposed to draft a special climate law for our country. Even though that discussion has stalled and was very polarized at some point, it is worth reviewing the content of that proposal. We also need to look at how we can proceed with the other proposals from this series of seminars. So there are a lot of proposals on the table that you can get started on.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u35	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, I think my colleague, Lien Vandamme, has answered the two main questions that have been asked about funding and governance. However, I would like to return relatively quickly to the issues of feasibility and employment. There are indeed studies that detail the socio-economic impacts on each country. I referred to the Eurofound study. I will provide you with the link to this study. It is clear that our country has a lot to gain in terms of net employment of 55 per cent. Why? Because, among the areas in which we are most lagging behind in our commitments, there is the renovation of buildings. I must not draw you a drawing: the renovation of the buildings creates employment, especially at the local level. But, of course, we must ensure that this employment is decent, thanks to social laws. But I repeat that it has been shown that we will create net jobs by increasing our ambition. The question was raised as to who is blocking and who is moving forward. You can read the commitments at the federal and regional levels. But to get out of this debate, this interparliamentary committee must not be an area where we point our finger at each other, as has too often been the case in climate matters in recent years. The essential thing for you today is to take advantage of this space to start a dialogue. As I said, anyway, this enhancement of ambition is being prepared. The question is how. As a national coalition, it must be understood that if we create net jobs by opting for an increase in ambition, there are a number of economic sectors, particularly in Flanders – I am thinking here of the entire economy around the port of Antwerp, petrochemicals – which will have to undergo a rather drastic transition in the next thirty years. The question for me today is not who is in favour and who is against it. Anyway, the decision will be made. The question is how we will move forward with these sectors – I recall that with the "Sign for my future" petition, dozens of business owners have called for more ambition in terms of climate – to draw an economic path, a path in particular in the industrial sector towards a low-carbon economy. It is in this context that the concept of a national conference on the just transition is really interesting. I would also ask you to explore this question because there are models in other countries, including the Netherlands, Germany and Scotland. Processes have been put in place to move forward with the economic sectors, employers, workers, taking into account the advice of scientists, etc. Work must start now at this level. [[.]] We have an industrial path to define. It is shown that this will create employment, but – obviously – there will be a necessary transition. When we talk about net employment, this means that new types of jobs will be created and people will have to change their economic sectors. The idea of a just transition – which is a concept validated by the International Labour Organisation, and therefore co-signed by the international trade union federations and the states – is to chart a path of support that values social protection as a tool for transition and vocational training to ensure that workers in the various sectors can evolve or change. It is also a question of accompanying companies. The essential means that will be mobilised by the European Commission with "Next Generation EU" offer an opportunity to draw this path collectively, but it will not be against the economy. It is a matter of redrawing an economic path. In terms of resources, I would like to emphasise the ongoing debate within the European Union on new resources. For international climate finance, the question arises first of all of the allocation of ETS revenues and of the distribution between the entities that make up Belgium, but also between the various economic areas, including climate finance. Today, on the European negotiating table, a number of new resources are proposed: a plastic tax, a carbon adjustment mechanism at borders, the use of ETS and a tax on financial transactions. According to the European Commission's estimates, this tax could generate between EUR 40 billion and EUR 60 billion per year, provided that a tax of 0,1 % is imposed on all international financial transactions. The repayment of the collective loan that is raised this year to exit the VOCID-19 crisis is estimated at €20 billion per year. This means that the introduction of a European financial transaction tax would provide an additional €30 billion to finance transition economic policies, employment and international commitments to developing countries. In conclusion, I would like to recall that international climate finance is not just about charity or generosity. This is the result of an international agreement that is anchored in the Rio Declaration, which is the basis of the entire climate policy, namely the principle of common but differentiated responsibility, according to which all States must contribute: the European Union, the United States, China and even Burkina Faso – which does not, however, provide much – must set out ways to mitigate climate emissions. But there is a counterpart to that. Developing countries have made it very clear that they are committed, but on the condition that historical polluters, that is, countries that have developed first, fulfil their financial commitments. There will be real commitments from China, emerging countries and all developing countries, which are necessary only if resources are put on the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u36	Thank you for your incredible respect for speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u37	Madam President, I will answer the questions in the same order. Mr Grifroy's first question is that there is indeed a risk of speech confusion. You have illustrated it well, I think, but in the end things are pretty clear. I do not go into the specific question of whether the coalition agreement is clear about this, it is not for me to clarify this. In any case, things are extremely clear at European level. The reason, which often leads to speech confusion, why there are two different base years, is that 1990 is still the base year because it is also the base year used internationally since the Kyoto Protocol. Why we often use 2005 as a base year at European level is because we only have figures from 2005 for the ETS sectors on the one hand and the non-ETS sectors on the other. We could not make that distinction before 2005, and that is why 2005 was chosen to put specific figures first in these sectors. It is important, indeed, because I often notice that there may be confusion about this in order to be very clear about it, including for you in your debates. There is a question as to whether the coalition agreement is clear about the nature of the 55% as it stands, except for the European 55%. I was not involved in these negotiations myself, so I cannot give you an exegesis of that either. That is where I owe you the answer. Your colleague from Ecolo-Green has given his interpretation, and I will not comment on it. You also asked the question, Mr Florent, about what is still missing in the European CDN. Essentially, let's say that the (?) Technical is almost ready. It's being discussed at the technical level. But what is missing, of course, is the figure that is given: will it be 55%, 60% or something else? It is on the figure that we must be able to reach agreement before the end of the year if the European Union wants to submit its CDN in time and thus comply with its very explicit commitment. To clarify, there is no CDN at the Belgian level. Belgian efforts in this context are contained in the European CDN. Mr Ravyts asked the question when the decision should be on 55%. That will, of course, be by 2020, because in the other case we cannot respect the deadline. That's the plan. The plan is to have a policy debate at the next European Council, after which we will decide against the European Council of 10 and 11 December 2020. Then the European Union can present its NDC and will formally confirm it on the day of the fifth anniversary of the Kyoto Convention during the global Summit organised by the United Nations and the United Kingdom during the COP26 Presidency. That is the timetable at European level. Indeed, it is true that in the current impact assessment accompanying the climate law and now also accompanying the Climate Target Plan, no analysis has been made at Member State level. I would remind you that this was not the case initially when setting the current targets for the period 2014-2016. That would also mean a great deal of delay. After all, this exercise must be done very thoroughly. However, this will certainly be done in the context of the legislative proposals announced by the European Commission on the non-ETS sectors in the course of 2021, following the European headline decision. Mr Léonard asked me a question about how to finance the increase in international funding. To the extent that the government agreement does not explicitly provide for how this ambition should be achieved, I fear that I will not be able to give you an answer. Indeed, in the past, there has often been talk of innovative sources of financing as they were called. There was the kerosene tax that was being discussed, the financial transaction tax as an example to effectively assert that emissions trading revenues were mentioned in past discussions on this subject. Having said that, I do not, of course, prejudge the decisions that the federal government would make at this level. Mr Ravyts, you asked a question about the deadline for the recovery plans. It is also my reading that the Member States have from October to April to submit the recovery plans, but the pressure from the Commission is high. It is really being asked to do so as soon as possible in order to clarify as quickly as possible which projects will be financed. How exactly this will have to be settled at Belgian level, I will not do anything about it, but you are right that this must be a crucial part of our thinking about the long-term transition. Let me turn to Mrs Czekalski's questions. I didn't have time to write them all down. I'll take two. The first concerns the blue COP. In this case, I must refer to my colleagues following the negotiations on the oceans. Belgium supports, among other things, the ambition to preserve 30% of the oceans for biodiversity, so to speak, by 2030. The second concerns the governance of recovery. Again, it is still largely to be decided, but it is important that not only this governance ensure that all competences are joined around the table, but also – and it is very explicit in the decisions that have been taken at European level – that it is very closely aligned with ecological transitions – the green transition as called by the European Council. Mr Hermant, you asked me for a timetable. I can't give you a very detailed schedule, but a few dates. At the end of my presentation, I gave you some key dates. The two sessions of the European Council will certainly be very important. Closer, and at another level, but it is still in the same context, the European Commission will publish an analysis of the national Energy-Climate plans on 14 October, therefore before the European Council. It has already published, I believe, on 17 September, an analysis of the collective effectiveness of the plans, from which it appears that indeed, if the plans are implemented, we will achieve the current objective, and even more. The fact that we can increase the level of ambition is a reassuring message, according to the European Commission. On the renewable side, I think it was a little less optimistic. You're asking me about the progress of other countries. At European level, there is obviously the reporting and monitoring cycle and the reports, for example, of the European Environment Agency. I also recommend reading the reports prepared by the European Commission, for example in the context of the European Semester, which also contain elements for analysing the state of play of the Member States of the European Union. With regard to the use of the Kyoto climate finance fund, when we hear the amounts that would be needed, and even the amounts currently in the cooperation agreement, I can tell you, knowing how much money it remains in this fund, which has not received any more revenue since 2012, that the fund will be quickly or very quickly exhausted, and that your servant here will find himself without a budget for the operation of his administration. Mr Verduyckt, you asked what sanctions are in place. No explicit sanction measures are provided for in the current legislation other than the usual sanctions for non-compliance by a Member State, i.e. in default to a limit sentence by the European Court of Justice, often subject to fairly draconian fines. For the next period, 2021-2030, there are no actual sanctions, but there are several feedback moments, for example when the Commission will report in 2022 or 2023 on progress in the implementation of national energy and climate plans. Under the Governance Regulation, the Commission has the mandate, if it finds that collective efforts are insufficient, to pursue additional European policies. That is not really a sanction measure, but still a corrective mechanism, I shall mention it. In the debate on cost-effectiveness, I would like to say one more word. I have just said, in reply to Mr Muyters' question, that flexibility is an element in this area. In fact, this flexibility will now be de facto much smaller, because all European Member States, including those with a greater and "cheaper" reduction potential, will have to move towards collective climate neutrality at European level. They may, in a way, want to keep their emission reductions to themselves. That's a limiting factor in that. This does not mean that flexibility cannot or must not exist by 2030. You mentioned the climate tables in the coalition agreement. The word is certainly inspired by the Dutch example. I have often mentioned the Dutch climate tables as a good example of dealing with a wicked problem like climate change in an inclusive and successful way, an incredibly complex problem involving everyone. There are other examples in other countries. I just heard Scotland mention it. I do not know that example very well, but I myself sometimes mention the Kohlekommission in Germany, where a calendar was adopted in a similar way for the coal exit. So there are a lot of models. All these models have in common that all actors are around the table, facilitated by the government. There are also examples of successful processes in this sense in the Belgian context. Mr De Beukelaar, you asked me if we already knew if we had already achieved our goals for the current period. I have to say no, because we'll only have the latest data for 2020 in 2022. So, formally, on the basis of the inventories, I cannot tell you whether the results are achieved or not. But you saw the graph where I compared historical emissions with the linear trajectory between 2013 and 2020. It is not yet known whether the potential deficit at the end of the period will be greater or less than the surplus established at the beginning of the period. It is also a flexibility over time. Will this deficit be covered or not? Let's see! Although we have formally met our commitments in the current period from an accounting point of view, it is especially important to look at the path we are on, especially if we look at the reduction trajectories by 2030 or even 2050. As I have just mentioned, the next time the Commission returns to the Belgian PNEC, it will be 14 October 2020, if I am not mistaken, when it publishes its analysis of the PNECs of the Member States. Mrs Nagy, you referred to the three plans. I had rather clarified that I had talked about a compilation of the three long-term strategies, but we can also read the National Energy-Climate Plan, which is also essentially a compilation. This plan involves more integration than the long-term strategy. However, I confirm your observation, made by the European Commission, as regards the budget and what amounts of investment are needed. Everyone agrees that these amounts are important and need to be increased. The recommendations of the European Semester to Belgium, already in recent years, refer to a generally too low level of investment and the sectors crucial for the climate transition (buildings, transport, if we look at non-ITS) are very often mentioned in this context. In this regard, the Government's agreement contains relevant elements and I also refer to the analyses made a few years ago in the context of the National Pact for Strategic Investments. They did do so as well. Since Mr. Van Nuffel spoke of a model at European level, developed by Climact, and I would like to remind you that, on the administrative side, we are also finalising, with the same office of study, the Vito and others, a model adapted to the Belgian situation. The model is obviously super complicated. When it is finally stable, it will also allow to identify the amounts of investment, thus CAPEX (capital expenditure) and OPEX (operational expenditure), of different trajectories of transition to climate neutrality in Belgium. The exit of nuclear power has been mentioned. In this regard, I can confirm that in the scenarios that our administration has published in the past, and in those that will emerge from the model I have just mentioned, the exit, as provided for in the law, is integrated into the trajectories. If I may, Madam President, I would like to say a few words about governance. Mrs Vandamme spoke about a process that we facilitated as an administration in 2018, a national debate on climate governance. I invite you to take a look at our website, where you will find the results of both the academic seminars that have been organised on this subject, for example, on the climate tables, but it was much wider than that, as well as the political conference, in which some of you or your colleagues may have participated. Hopefully that will inspire you. I confirm that the National Climate Commission (NKC) is a central body in Belgium to manage governance in terms of cooperation between the federal state and the three regions. Indeed, the NKC does not respect, among other things, its mandate to report annually to Parliament or even to the four parliaments. I would also like to tell you that the National Climate Commission has not really started negotiating the Burden Sharing for the next period, which should start on 1 January 2021. This is being analysed in a working group and the political debate on this has yet to begin. This naturally has consequences in terms of the formal allocation of emission reduction targets to the Regions, an effort commitment to the federal government, the distribution of revenues from auctioning allowances between the Regions and the federal government and the distribution of commitments by each of the four partners in the NKC on climate finance. In a short time it will be 1 January 2021, so hopefully we will get more clarity about this soon. I think the NKC held two plenary sessions this year and that had nothing to do with COOVID-19. I hope I have answered the questions with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u38	We have about 50 minutes left for a third round. In order to allow everyone to speak, speaking times were strictly regulated. Now I propose that those who wish to speak raise their hands. If necessary, I will arbitrate according to the House of Representatives' D'Hondt key to ensure that the floor is taken. But as far as possible, we will take the remaining interventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u39	Madam President, I would like to move on to Mr Wittoeck's answer to my question. The answer to the question is not complete. The question not only dealt with the comparison between 1990 and 2005, but also about Europe that sets an objective, ETS and non-ETS. The ETS is not a country target but a European objective. If we then establish a non-ETS binding at the Flemish level, what is at the federal level? To date, this has always been non-ETS. If the European standard of OH55% compared to 1990, ETS and non-ETS were to be translated together into 2005 and only non-ETS, my calculations would mean that this would amount to about 43% to 45%. In the slides, there was something similar about the original target of 40%, reaching 38%, rounded to 35%. Can you confirm this? Apparently, apples are compared to pears here. Is it true that international flexibility will make it possible to finance those countries which have been more difficult to finance? So can we invest from our region in, for example, Bulgaria, Romania or Poland, so that they may even have a higher CO2 reduction than originally foreseen, and this will be on our account? Is that provided for or not? That is international flexibility for me. International flexibility is not giving money to, but indeed investing with our resources and our people there to bring the reduction to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u40	My question concerns the fact that the National Climate Commission did not meet to talk about burden sharing, when we know that we are really coming to an end. Where does the block lie? Can you explain the absence of this discussion? Who is normally the leader of this meeting? Who should take the initiative? We'd like to understand where the blockage came from.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u41	Madam President, Mr Wittoeck, I would like to continue with what you said about the policy debate of the European Council of 10 and 11 December 2020 on the strengthened objectives. I am referring to its translation into what the federal government agreement calls the action plan to update Belgium's National Energy and Climate Plan. Then we'll probably be on the National Climate Commission, too. The scoop, the concrete translation at Member State level, is, in my opinion, about 1 January 2021. What's the exact end calendar there? I hear this would be next year, in 2021. A second additional aspect, can you give a brief update on the Just Transition Fund? Have these territorial plans been submitted yet? How's that going? After all, Mr Van Nuffel referred to transitions that would be necessary, and then there would be European funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u42	Madam President, a number of references were made to studies and material on governance and climate tables. It would be useful if this could be made available to us through the committee secretariat. We are going to have a lot of that in the coming weeks and months. With regard to international flexibility and investment in foreign economies, I do not understand that fear of cold water. We must now use every euro to invest in our own economy. Our companies have every interest in getting back in the first place in terms of innovation and technology. We should not measure ourselves to countries such as Hungary and Poland. We need more ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u43	If there are no other questions, I will give the floor to the Climate Coalition. Since we have a lot of time left, you can answer your please, knowing that we have to leave the room at 2:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u44	Mr Grifroy, if you are asking about the interpretation of the coalition agreement, I cannot give you an answer. It would indeed be useful, I think, to clarify whether the number entered refers to ETS or non-ETS and what base year is used. I will also give your concern as a question for clarification to my new minister. What you describe in your question on flexibility is indeed what this is about. You specify it in the sense of investing in projects. I believe that the current rules already provide for this. There is not only the transfer of allowances between Member States, but there is also the possibility to invest in concrete projects. We do not yet have any indications from the European Commission as to whether it will make new proposals of effort sharing and, if so, when or when. After all, there is the broader discussion on the scope, so on whether ETS should not be extended. I cannot predict whether that will be part of her proposals. In any case, it is a bit of a bridge between you and Mr Verduyckt - there will be limits to the flexibility available, not only because they would be imposed from the legislative point of view, which are already in it, because everyone also wants to be placed at national level on the path to climate neutrality, the long-term objective - but also because the countries that still have a great reduction potential need to take part in the bath and will also have to be able to use the emission allowances in their national territory and may not sell them as easily as possible in the form of projects or otherwise to other Member States. We need to be aware of that when we think about flexibility on the road to 2050, which means that we will also be able to do so in 2030. I hope I have answered your question a little better. I come to Mr Florent's question. I'm not going to do an analysis of what you called a CNC blockage. I can inform you that this was the representative of the Minister of Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development in the previous government that was responsible for chairing the CNC this year. Every president takes the initiative or not. Mr Ravyts, there are many different aspects to the translation into an action plan at Member State level. Before we know what the level of ambition of individual Member States will be, we must first clarify the architecture of the future regime. If we know which sectors remain in the effort sharing, the same or other, it does not matter, then we need to be clear about the resulting division of effort. How much does each Member State get? This will then be the anchor point or, to what extent, national energy and climate plans need to be adapted. The European Commission will publish next week the analyses of individual Member States, recommendations under the European Semester, and recovery policy developments. The European Commission and the European Union as a whole are very explicit on this: the NEKP, the recovery plan, must be followed. As for the Just Transition Fund, I don't think the plans have been submitted yet, but I'm not putting my hand in the fire for that. I haven't followed it this close in a couple of weeks. I can inform you as soon as my colleague sends me an answer, which is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u45	Madam President, the last round of questions was mainly addressed to Mr Wittoeck. I propose a final round to see if there are any questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-10-07-55-commissie-ic275x.u46	I thank the speakers for their presence today for their participation in this hearing, the heads of delegations and the President of the German-speaking Parliament. I thank the various members of the parliaments of Belgium for having been present today in the framework of this interparliamentary dialogue Climate. A meeting is scheduled to take place on Monday from 2 to 3.30 p.m. and will hear from Mr Timmermans, Vice-President of the European Commission responsible for the Green Pact for Europe, who will discuss the Green Deal. The meeting will be chaired by Mr. Patrick Dewael, still President of the House of Representatives. Given the short period of time for this hearing, the speaking time will be as good as it is today.
