ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u2	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] : It was with emotion that we learned of the death, on August 28, of our former colleague, Minister of State Antoinette Spaak. Born in Etterbeek, Antoinette Spaak, one of the most Brussels-based figures of our assembly, made his humanities at the Lycée de Saint-Gilles. During the war, the Spaak family remained in Belgium, while Antoinette's father, Paul-Henri Spaak, lived in London, where he held the Foreign Affairs portfolio in the Pierlot government. After the war, Antoinette Spaak studied law at the Université libre in Brussels, while also engaging in theatre and literature. In the early 1970s, she met Lucien Outers, co-founder of the F.D.F., who managed to convince her to run in the 1974 general election. Of course, politics was not 'terra incognita' for Antoinette Spaak. Politics had 'animated' every meal shared with his father and many friends. She had always 'bashed' in politics, but she never had it'vehed' or 'practised' herself. By taking the step in 1974 – that is, relatively late – Antoinette Spaak was quickly going to make a first name. The F.D.F. He was going to provide him with the ideal opportunity to defend Francophones and engage even more firmly in the federalist path. It was on March 10, 1974 that Antoinette Spaak entered our assembly where she will sit until July 19, 1994. Propelled in politics, Antoinette Spaak was to be elected president of his party as early as 1977. For about five years, this feminist was before the time part of the very select group of party presidents, which consisted almost exclusively of men. She was involved, among other things, in the major Community negotiations of that time. She deeply regretted the fact that the Egmont-Stuyvenberg Pact was eventually defeated because she felt that such a real opportunity had been lost to align Flemings and French speakers. Under its Presidency, her party was part of the Tindemans II government, the Vanden Boeynants II government and the Martens I government, and its party opposed later governments. Antoinette Spaak shared in the prosperity and adversity of her party and was driven by the idea that all citizens should be free to choose whatever community they want to belong to, wherever they live. That was for her truth, which she sometimes admitted to carry a certain degree of subjectivity, but the truth of her commitment, to which she has always remained faithful. Many saw Antoinette Spaak as the embodiment of an ideal. By her ability to explain things clearly and to keep concrete goals in mind, she enjoyed popularity in people with often very different backgrounds. She also had a very great listening capacity, which was greatly appreciated by her interlocutors. Elected to the European Parliament from 1979 to 1984 and from 1994 to 1999, Antoinette Spaak, whom the King had appointed as Minister of State in 1983, would put his energy and the strength of his convictions at the service of the European idea. It often deplored the weakening of Europe, as a result of a lack of ambition and a lack of will on the part of some European leaders. She had also been deeply saddened by the victory of the Brexit supporters. Antoinette Spaak also chaired the Council of the French Community of Belgium from 1988 to 1992 and sat briefly in the Brussels Parliament in 2009. With the disappearance of Antoinette Spaak, we lose a refined, elegant and truly appreciated colleague. She was open and modern in her way of seeing life, always enthusiastic, finding the right balance between strength and sweetness. On behalf of the House of Representatives, I sent a letter of condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u3	Mr President, let me add to what you have just said, without repeating its rather exceptional course that, like many of the elected representatives of this House, I was particularly touched to learn of Antoinette Spaak's disappearance on 28 August. Belgium has lost a state woman, and the word is not usurped. This great lady of politics was deeply respected and greatly appreciated beyond her own political formation, on both sides of the linguistic border, as so well demonstrated by the many expressions of sympathy for her. Personally, I had the great privilege of meeting her from the very beginning in politics, and from these few working meetings I hold an impressive personality, a direct and effective woman. Those of you who know her will also remember her sharp humour, her tenacious commitment. It combined the elegance of the verb and the firmness of convictions. As you have rightly said, Mr President, Antoinette Spaak has managed to make a name for himself, alongside a family name bearing an important heritage, almost without common measure in the history of our country. His seriousness and his work are not strangers to it. As a member of this Parliament but, above all, as the first woman to preside over a political party in Belgium, Antoinette Spaak has opened the political path for many women. We were then in the 1970s, that was half a century ago. It is particularly interesting to listen to Antoinette Spaak's words at the time in front of the cameras, to listen to these words with our contemporary ears. She then said: "As a newly elected woman in this assembly, I think it is important not to deal solely with women's issues." It seemed almost as if she mocked it, she who lived at a time when women had to deal often with issues that were considered more feminine, if they already managed to take their place in a largely man-controlled world. This almost insignificant phrase says something about the modernity of feminism that Antoinette Spaak embodied, a feminism that stands for absolute equality between men and women, on the basis that the competence of people is not determined by their gender, but by their intrinsic qualities. Yet she liked to point out that it was the feminine touch that changed certain customs in politics, made a certain mentality evolve. We will also retain Antoinette Spaak's deep commitment to the European project. Elected to the European Parliament from 1979 to 1984 and then, from 1994 to 1999, you recalled, Mr President, she shared, with another very great lady, Simone Veil, her friend, the same ambition for Europe. It saw in the European Union a great opportunity to establish cooperation, solidarity between countries which, years earlier, were tearing apart. This conviction must continue to guide us as a founding member and host country of many institutions. On behalf of the government, I extend my deepest condolences to his companion and accomplice, Viscount Étienne Davignon, his children, his family and all his relatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u4	Colleagues, with deep sadness we heard that our former colleague, Ilse Uyttersprot, died violently on 4 August 2020. Once again, we must deplore the death of a woman who was the victim of partner violence. She was 53 years old and left two sons. Our thoughts go first and foremost to her family and neighbors. Ilse Uyttersprot was a member of our assembly for CD&V from 2007 to 2010. She was an effective member of the committee responsible for the problems of trade and economic law. She followed the humanities at the Saint Vincent Institute in Gijzegem. After that she graduated in 1990 as a law degree at the University of Ghent. She began working as a lawyer at the Barie van Dendermonde and was a member of the cabinet of Secretary of State Reginald Moreels from 1996 to 1999. In 1999 she became regional secretary at UNIZO. From 1994 to 2000, she also sat on the Provincial Council of Eastern Flanders. The activities that Ilse Uyttersprot carried out in the city of Alost were an essential aspect of his political commitment. Ilse Uyttersprot was commune councillor for the CVP from 1989 and later became mayor in 2007. After the municipal elections of 2012, she became the first alderman in the college of burmese and aldermen. Actively, close to the people, always the heart on the tongue, we will remember Ilse Uyttersprot as a vibrant personality who was genuinely committed to the common good. On behalf of the Chamber, I have expressed my sincere condolences to the family.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u5	On August 4th, we discovered with dismay the death of Ilse Uyttersprot. Unbelief, shock, grief. The news of the death of Ilse Uyttersprot has touched us all deeply. There are no words for this terrible drama. In addition to a gruesome form of partner violence, which unfortunately women are still the biggest victims of, this is above all a human tragedy. It goes against the natural order of things. It's unnatural for a mother to bury her daughter. It's unnatural that two young sons lose their mommy. It's something that hits us, which shockes us, especially when it comes to a woman who was so close to the people. Ilse Uyttersprot, a committed citizen, was the daughter of Raymond Uyttersprot, who was mayor of the present district of Moorsel, and later also of Aalst. She graduated in law from the University of Ghent in 1990 and worked as a lawyer at the bar of Termonde until 1999. Between 1996 and 1999, she worked as a collaborator in the office of Secretary of State Réginald Moreels, where she was responsible for preparing general and legal files for the Council of Ministers. From 1994 to 2000, she also sits on the Provincial Council of East Flanders, you said. It was in January 2007 that Ilse Uyttersprot took over the destiny of the city of Alost. It will remain the mayor until 2012 before becoming an alderman. During her Mayoral term, she also served as a Member of Parliament in this assembly between June 2007 and June 2010. Everyone who knew her is full of praise for her charming personality. She was a woman with conviction and commitment, someone with great sense of humor and self-reliativering, also in very difficult moments. On behalf of the Belgian Government, I would like to express my deepest condolences to the children of Ilse Uyttersprot, her family and her friends. I would like to offer them our deepest sympathy and support in this terrible ordeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u6	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 September 2020, you have received a draft agenda for today's meeting. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 September 2020, you have received a draft agenda for today's meeting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u7	Mr President, you are asking whether there are any comments on today's agenda. On the basis of Rule 49 on disputes concerning the order of business, I would like to take the floor. You have just read out today's agenda, but I think there is something wrong with that under Rule 41 of the Rules of Procedure, which says: 'The government statements and communications are placed directly on the agenda of the plenary.' I should like to point out that Prime Minister Wilmès said that you were also present on 17 March 2020: "In addition, I will ask Parliament's confidence again in six months' time at the latest. As a result, we will have the framework of current affairs..." Two days later, during the debate, she stressed the following: "In addition, I'll come back at the latest in six months to ask for your trust again." That was not a detail, but a statement from the government following the inquisition debate we had at the time. That has not fallen into deaf ears, as several of my fellow group chairmen have referred to it. It was even an important element for them to give the government the confidence at the time. Mr Calvo used the word 'temporarily', Mr Verherstraeten spoke of'six months', etc. The most important speech at the time was made by a fellow group chairman who has now become party chairman, whom I quote: 'It is also clear that Mrs Sophie Wilmès, Prime Minister, has pointed out that the current situation is valid for six months. Then we will again judge what needs to be done. Our group will give the government the confidence for six months." If I read Mrs Wilmès's words correctly, she said on 17 March last that she would make a government statement in which she would ask for confidence within six months at the latest. She could have done that before, but today is the last day of that six-month period. In applying Article 41, I therefore believe that we can now expect a government statement to be made, with attached a question of strengthening or confirming confidence in its team. Mr President, as guardian of this institution too, I would ask you to apply that article and take the initiative to amend the agenda accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u8	Mr De Roover, you have not been able to attend a few meetings of the Conference of Presidents. I can only tell you that there are two ways of meeting the commitment made by the Prime Minister here. The first possibility is the one you describe. This means that the government itself is coming to Parliament and making a communication. The second possibility is that Parliament itself, in favour of this possibility, has chosen Mrs Pas pieced together on the subject you have just raised. Parliament has therefore taken the initiative, through the interplay of Mrs Pas, to hold a debate on this subject. The Prime Minister and the Government naturally undertook to take part in the debate at the Conference of Presidents and to answer the questions. Perhaps it may seem somewhat annoying that Mrs Pas cut you off. In any event, at the Conference of Presidents, we agreed with all the group leaders that everyone would subscribe to these questions in the debate that follows after Mrs Pas's interplay. Everyone agreed to that. You are now making a slight reduction in that debate. You have also submitted an interplay in this regard. You have even put forward a question asking me whether it is also related to the same subject. So you will have the floor in the course of the debate, like all the other groups. The government has committed itself to answering the questions. For the rest, I can only remind you that the agenda was established by consensus in the Conference of Presidents. I do not want to go into this further because otherwise you are wronging all the fellow group leaders who do respect the loyalty that exists in the Conference of Presidents on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u9	Mr President, I am surprised at your answer. You are President of the entire Parliament. It is not your job to keep the government from its commitments. The interpretation you give to the words of March 17th is very creative. I do not understand why the Prime Minister said on 17 March that if no one takes the initiative for an interplay, then I will ask for confidence. Moreover, an interplay is not the same as the question of trust. Force the words of March 17th. That's a moral compulsion. I was very surprised that the Prime Minister did not comply with that, but I am also surprised that you do not wish to apply Article 41 yourself. You say that there is an agreement on the agenda, but the government has until the very last minute the right, we had expected them to use that right, to say: right, it is 17 September today, which is six months after 17 March. So today, before midnight, she gets that confidence back, or she offers her resignation. Of course, that could be the case. On 31 August she said in De Standaard: "I will not return to my commitment. I will not take advantage of the trust that has been placed in me. For me, such a given word is important." I read the whole article. It did not say: I will wait for Mrs Pas to take an initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u10	I am taking the floor now, because we will have that debate. All questions can be asked. The Prime Minister will answer that. Parliament itself has chosen the path of interplay. After the interplay all kinds of motions can be brought forward. Parliament is completely free to do so. I now consider that debate to be over.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u11	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u12	No, we will have the debate in a moment, as agreed. I regret that way of doing things.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u13	It's not about the debate. (...) The parliamentary year opens either with a declaration of government...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u14	No, the parliamentary year doesn't open.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u15	... because Mrs Wilmès said on 17 March that she would ask for confidence today. The fact that you are making this a game to save the Vivaldi coalition and delay for a while is unworthy of a chairman of parliament. Parliament shall open either with a declaration of government or with a statement from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u16	Mrs Pas has the floor and I shall now proceed to the swearing-in.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u17	Mr President, I think it is very easy for the government to say that it should not come up with a declaration of government itself, because I have submitted an interplay. The big difference is that I'm not as naive as my colleague De Roover. I didn't expect her to be here today with a government statement. So I played for sure and submitted an interview, to make sure that there would be an answer at all to the circus we have seen over the last few weeks and months. However, one does not exclude the other. There is a commitment from the Minister, there should normally have been a government statement. So I certainly understand Mr De Roover's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u18	We must accept and take the oath of office of the alternate who has been appointed governor of the Flemish Brabant province, replacing Mr Jan Spooren, who under the Flemish Government's decree of 17 July 2020 has been appointed governor of the Flemish Brabant province. We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible for Mr Jan Spooren, who was appointed governor of the province of Flemish Brabant by decision of 17 July 2020 The alternate is Ms Sigrid Goethals, an alternate from the Flemish Brabant electoral district. The successor who will replace him is Ms. Sigrid Goethals, successor to the Flemish-Brabant constituency. The credentials of Ms.Sigrid Goethals were validated in our June 20, 2019 session. The credentials of Mrs Sigrid Goethals were declared valid at our meeting of 20 June 2019. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen '. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mrs Sigrid Goethals to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mrs Sigrid Goethals to take the constitutional oath. (...): (...) [[Strong protest on the banks of the N-VA and Flemish Interest]]
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u19	Mrs. Goethals, will you take the oath? I take note of the fact that you do not wish to take the oath for the time being. We must proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the alternate who is to sit to replace Mr. John Crombez, who resigned by letter of September 10, 2020. We must proceed with the admission and swearing-in of the successor who is eligible to replace Mr John Crombez, who resigned by letter of 10 September 2020. The alternate is Ms Vicky Reynaert, an alternate from the electoral district of West Flanders. The successor who will replace him is Mrs Vicky Reynaert, successor to the West Flanders constituency. Vicky Reynaert's credentials were validated in our June 20, 2019 session. Mrs Vicky Reynaert's credentials were declared valid at our meeting of 20 June 2019. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of this member. I therefore propose that this Member be admitted. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. I recall the terms of the oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution" "Ik zweer de Grondwet na te leven" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen '. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mrs Vicky Reynaert to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mrs Vicky Reynaert to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u20	Ms Vicky Reynaert will be a member of the Dutch language group. Ms Vicky Reynaert will be part of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u21	Mr President, we are making history here. I have a question for you, Madam Prime Minister. I wish to respect you in your office, but this is unseen. I should hope... (...) Perhaps you will also turn off the microphone, Mr President, if it is displeasure for you, because you have now entered an area that is totally unacceptable and I am counting on all fellow Members, regardless of the political party to which they belong, to formally...
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u22	Mr De Roover, you may begin again. Your speaking time will be resumed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u23	Madam Prime Minister, apart from the embarrassing spectacle that the President of the Chamber is performing here, I have read in the media. I would have liked you to have done so here, in accordance with your commitment that you intend to continue until 1 October. I do not know why October 1st, but it seems that there is a connection with the formation of government. What, however, do you intend to do if there is no government on 1 October? Given the commotion, for example with the colleagues from CD&V, I do not think that is unlikely. What are you up to? Will it be 15 or 30 October or will you only change the year and not the date? How long will you be pulling this through? Besides, what do you intend to do in that interim period? What are you going to do that you can't do if you don't get the trust? What are you planning to do in the next few weeks that can't be done in current cases? What plans and projects are you planning? If you are planning projects to fill in the next two weeks, do you not think, Madam Prime Minister, that it would have shown basic respect to come here actively? Madam Prime Minister, do you not think that you should have intervened in this session to unfold your plans for the next two weeks? The fact that the junta of the Vivaldi Presidents has decided that this Parliament is being sidelined is, of course, a particularly painful start for the Vivaldi coalition. The fact that you are involved in this may have to do with certain calculations in view of who will lead this Vivaldi coalition. In the meantime, you are still the Prime Minister of Wilmès II Government. What are your plans for the next two weeks? Why didn't you think it was necessary to inform the Chamber?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u24	I would like to say once again that in this question there is a preliminaries to the debate that we would have in the context of the interplays, after Question Time. Madam Prime Minister, you choose when you answer these questions. That is possible now, but I would prefer you to do so during the interplay debate. Mr Mertens has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u25	Madam Prime Minister, at least the debate is justified. Indeed, six months ago, you asked Parliament for its confidence. We didn't give that at the time, and we think we were right not to. Six months later, inequality has increased in our country. Six months later, poverty increased at the bottom, and extreme wealth also increased at the top. Six months later, the economy in our country is divided in two, as you know. On the one hand, there are the small self-employed, the catering industry and the cultural sector who are having a very difficult time. On the other hand, we find a number of very large firms that book excess profits. Six months after your question of trust, care is once again on the streets because she can't handle it and is afraid of the second wave. Then we are talking about the heroes of the COVID-19 crisis. At last Sunday's demonstration of concern, I heard the word distrust. I understand that there is distrust among the people of first-line aid and care. I do not think you are coming to Parliament today to ask for confidence because you know very well that there is distrust among the people and because you know very well that there is no confidence in this Parliament either. That is why I have a very simple question for you for the next two weeks. What will you do on 1 October 2020 if there is no new government? What policy are you going to pursue in the next two weeks? Now suppose Mr De Crem gets his way and there will be no Vivaldi government, or suppose that the sp.a-Forward or PS would still go left and not choose Vivaldi, and so there is no government on 1 October. What are you gonna do? Are you going to break your word again? Or are you going to come here and ask for confidence again?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u26	Mr President, I will of course answer the questions, but there will be a lot of debate in the next few hours, I am sure. That is also very healthy for democracy. I don't have a problem with that. I have indeed committed myself to working with this government within the confidence and within the chalk lines laid down in March in the spirit of confidence for dealing with the crisis. For matters outside the crisis, we are not going outside the perimeter of current affairs. This means that if Parliament so decides, we will continue to work within the same perimeter, under Parliament's control. This is done with respect for Parliament, the whole of Parliament. As you know, an important meeting of the National Security Council is scheduled for next week. It is very important that we continue to work on the management of the pandemic. It is also very important that the federal level continues to work well with the Länder to address the challenges of the crisis as well as possible. As I have already said, this question will certainly continue to be dealt with very widely today. It will certainly lead to a very interesting debate. That is part of democracy, and that is a sign of respect for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u27	Mr President, you do not respect the order.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u28	I respect the order. You're first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u29	I assumed you didn't respect anything anymore. Mr President, I have indeed asked a question within the scope of my right as a Member of Parliament. Madam Prime Minister, what you have said here can also be done in current cases. That has also been proven, because before you had the confidence on 17 March, you also did those things in the context of current cases. What you did extra was under the powers of attorney, but they also disappeared. There was therefore no reason not to keep your word, not to do what you have strictly committed yourself to. I have written down the floor, and you are asking Parliament to give its opinion on this. Mr President, you have ignored my question. Are you also ignoring the Prime Minister's question that Parliament could give its opinion on this matter? I'm curious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, the philosophy behind our question is to evaluate how the COOVID-19 crisis has been dealt with in the last six months. Since there are no new elections now, I think that demand for a balance is a real demand because in these three areas - the area of poverty, the area of the small self-employed who are struggling and the area of care - it needs to be improved. It is not good, Madam Prime Minister, and we do not want more of the same, because those contradictions are increasing. The fact that we are asking for a substantive debate on how to deal with the COVID-19 crisis over the last six months, with the intention of not repeating it in the second wave, makes sense. The fact that we are asking you here on 1 October, if there is no new government, whether you will allow that debate or ask for confidence again and not postpone the question of trust for a second time, is a democratic and legitimate question, not only from us, but from an improbably large number of people on the ground, from improbably many worried citizens who no longer have confidence in this Parliament or in politics. I was hoping you'd answer that, Madam Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u31	Madam Prime Minister, yesterday we all saw the State of the Union of Urusula von der Leyen. Corona is creating an unprecedented global crisis, a major economic challenge. Nevertheless, Mrs von der Leyen delivered a positive message. A message of hope. It advocated a Europe driven by values. People want to get out of this corona world, out of the vulnerability and insecurity. It is time for a new step, as was the message, a step in which Europe has a leading role in the world, including in the field of climate. It wants Europe to raise the bar in the energy and climate transition and has referred to increased CO2 reduction targets, energy efficiency of buildings and a green economy. These European ambitions will require strong commitment from all Member States in the coming years. There are many challenges for our country as well. We need to invest in a green transition. This will enable us to give our economy a new impetus and ultimately our country can also play a leading role. Our country can't miss that boat. Madam Prime Minister, is our country ready to move up a gear to live up to those ambitions? Are we ready for such a green boost?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u32	Mr President, Mr Delvaux, yesterday Ursula von der Leyen presented her vision in the European Parliament in her speech on the state of the European Union. President von der Leyen announced a series of proposals in a number of areas, including health, economics, digital technology and the rule of law. One of the key proposals is the target for further reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, to at least 55% by 2030 instead of the current target of 40%. On the basis of an extensive impact study, the European Commission believes that European industry should be able to achieve these ambitious objectives. It also considers that this will strengthen the European Union's exemplary position in meeting the criteria of the Paris Agreement and will put the Union well on the way to achieving carbon neutrality. Member States will, of course, be given the opportunity to examine the proposal and to express their views. The issue will first be discussed at the October European Council. Belgium supports the current target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40%. Belgium, like almost all other Member States, expressed its support for the carbon neutrality target by 2050 at the December 2019 European Council. Your question is whether our country is ready. The objectives of carbon neutrality for Belgium must be achieved at all levels of policy. Belgium's position on the European Commission's new proposal will therefore be determined in the coordination bodies of the DGE, in which the federal government and sub-regions are represented. Hopefully, a majority government will soon be formed that will be able to determine the federal level's position. Once again, however, we are talking about the federal level and the Länder.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u33	Madam Prime Minister, because of the corona crisis, we face a huge economic and social challenge. Now is the time for a strong re-launch plan. We must focus on the climate and energy transition. That plan is a crucial element in that. It will also offer opportunities for our country. We need to green our businesses. We need to boost our economy. We need to create new jobs. I hope that we will be able to play a leading role in this area in the coming years, even during the debates at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u34	Madam Prime Minister, this seems to be a bit about respect here today, or it should be. Respect in Parliament and beyond, respect for democracy, respect for how people have voted, respect for the people who work hard and who pay the bills, who make things turn around, who pay for taxes. We know how this goes in this country with the people who pay the taxes. We know what happens when a government wants to impose additional taxes. Then one looks at Flanders. Then it's the Flemings who get to pay the most. We see the same thing in the European Union. It's mostly the Flemings who can help pay for that party. We see that the invoice will rise there as well. Today, we already finance the European Union at EUR 3.8 billion a year. Thanks to your deal, Mrs Wilmès, an additional billion euros will be added each year that Belgium will be able to pay to the European Union. Who's gonna pay for that? The Flemings will be able to pay for that. When it comes to paying, people like to look at us, but when it comes to getting it, we should shut up. Then we can't say anything. What's next? A European Investment Fund, a recovery fund of EUR 750 billion. Of this 750 billion, EUR 5 billion is for Belgium. Only 5 billion of those EUR 750 billion come to us. Far too little. What are we going to do with the EUR 5 billion? What does Europe want us to do with that money? Europe says that we must invest in the economy. However, that is a Flemish competence. We in Europe should invest in innovation, but that too is a Flemish competence. Europe says: extra money is spent in transport and mobility. That too is mainly a Flemish competence. Europe says: invest in the green economy. The isolation of houses, for example, is a Flemish jurisdiction, not a federal jurisdiction. Madam Prime Minister, EUR 5 billion is coming from Europe to this country. What will you do to ensure that this money does not linger in Belgium, but that it reaches the right level to invest it? The Flemish Minister for the Budget has estimated that at least 3 billion euros should be invested in Flanders. Madam Prime Minister, show us the money. How will you guarantee that the 3 billion euros will come to Flanders?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u35	The extraordinary European Council that took place in July made available a budget of EUR 750 billion in the framework of Next Generation EU to finance the recovery in the coming years. Of this, EUR 312.5 billion comes in the form of direct grants. Seventy percent of the grants will be committed in 2021 and 2022 and the remaining thirty percent will be committed in 2023. On the basis of the current formula, Belgium should receive around 5.15 billion. This is slightly more than what was announced in May, when an amount of 4.82 billion was expected. The parameter used to determine this contribution was able to change to our advantage during the negotiations. We had a discussion in committee at that time. Mr Loones, you were very happy and grateful for that. These figures are not entirely definitive, as the calculation of the second drive of 30% depends on growth in 2020 and 2021. The committee does indeed allocate the envelope at Member State level. It is therefore up to the federal, regional and community governments to determine the keys to this envelope. This will therefore be an important discussion point for the next federal government. Member States should submit a national recovery and resilience plan for the years 2021 to 2023 in order to benefit from these resources. Those plans may be submitted from 15 October 2020 until 30 April 2021 at the latest. Belgium must therefore submit only one plan. It will therefore have to take account of the questions and orientations of the various governments, including the Länder. In particular, national recovery and resilience plans will need to clarify how the country's specific challenges identified during the European Semester are met. I'm a little surprised at the tone of your question. We've had a prebriefing and a debriefing. You've had every opportunity to talk about it. You did. You spoke a great deal about the European summit. That was very interesting indeed. Your interventions were more enthusiastic than they are now. I don't know if that has anything to do with the formation of government, but the difference is remarkable.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u36	Thank you, Madam Prime Minister. I admit that I am indeed very disappointed with your answer, but also with the content of the answer you give as Prime Minister. You say that the next federal government will be allowed to decide. That's what you say as Prime Minister. The next government can do it. If that's your attitude, then why are you still here as Prime Minister? If that is your attitude, then you might as well ask for confidence and let Parliament judge it? If you do not want to take up your duties as Prime Minister here, please take credit for yourself, keep your word and submit the motion of confidence. I am disappointed not only in your personal statement, but also in the content. You're acting like we're getting rid of this because we've gone from 4.8 billion to 5 billion. We've got $300 million added to the last adjustment. The Czech Republic will receive an additional 2 billion. The country has 10 million inhabitants like us. We get $300 million and you knock on the chest. I think there's only one answer to this. This is what one gets with governments that have no majority in Flanders. Please stop treating Flanders as your ATM. After all, we're not. The Flemish taxpayer really deserves a little more respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, I note that the future colleague, who has not just taken the oath, is still present at the plenary session, which is impossible. I want to repeat the question of swearing in. If Mrs Goethal is going to deal with this now, then the Chamber is regularly constituted, otherwise I must ask her to leave the sitting. I think, however, that it is a correct proposal that, after Mrs Goethal did not want to do this last time, I invite her once again to take the constitutional oath. I recall the terms of the oath: "I swear to observe the Constitution" "Ik zweer de Grondwet na te leven" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen '. I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mrs Sigrid Goethals to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mrs Sigrid Goethals to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u38	Mrs Sigrid Goethals will be a member of the Dutch language group. Ms Sigrid Goethals will be part of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u39	Madam Prime Minister, there are some figures that are worrying. Several signals show that the outbreak of VOCID-19 is inadequately controlled. Two days ago, you sent a call to order to the citizens regarding the observance of the barrier gestures. Then yes! It is true that it is not fun, but they must become an automatism. However, your appeal seems to bring responsibility for the evolution of the epidemic to the citizens alone. Yet! Testing centers are saturated, generalists overflowed, there's a lack of swabs and now there's a lack of reagents. Patients sometimes have to wait several days to get tested and get the result. Tracing is still insufficient. For weeks now, steps should have been taken to anticipate the current foreseeable situation. Everyone knew that with the return of tourists, the return to school and the return to work, things could deteriorate. There are failures, crucial shortcomings in the device in terms of testing, isolating the positives and tracing. This summer, we held several debates, made proposals. Your ministers are studying, examining and the experts are urging you today to act before the situation deteriorates further. In particular, it is necessary to strengthen the testing and tracing system, to support field teams as well as general practitioners, to relieve administrative procedures which are far too heavy, to allow rapid tests, but also the use of a pipette (much simpler) to collect saliva; to provide screenings not only in nursing homes, but also in schools, to extend the leave of absence to allow the isolation of children away from school or nursery, to also adapt the bubble of five people so that it fits the realities of families. Urgent measures, still not taken, are to be taken. We do not have the luxury of remaining passive and waiting if we are to be able to control the epidemic again. I expect strong and rapid commitments from you here.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u40	Prime Minister, we have been facing an unprecedented health crisis for more than six months now. This crisis has caused the death of nearly 10,000 of our citizens and has literally brought our economy to its knees. It has mobilized and exhausted all the actors in the front line, thanks to which we have been able to start our deconfination. At the same time, this crisis also plays on the nerves of the population. Our fellow citizens are lost in the face of contradictory information and are tired of these constraints and deprivations of freedoms. But here it is: the virus is still there, and the numbers confirm it to us every day. They reflect a significant increase in contamination and hospitalization, but also, to a lesser extent fortunately, deaths. It is certainly not now that we must relax our efforts. That is precisely the message you sent us on Tuesday, and I would like to thank you very much for that. Yes, we are the solution. We, in other words, the citizens who must respect the barriers every day. But does this also include your government? I would like to ask you the question, Madam Prime Minister, because respect for barrier actions is not decreed. It is acquired by means of a communication from which a fair understanding of the measures is derived and consequently a correct acceptance of these measures by the population. So I have to ask you two questions. What are you planning in practice to give meaning to these measures and to really raise awareness among young people, in particular, of the role they play today in the chain of contamination to the most vulnerable people? Second, what are you planning to support health care staff and our hospitals? How do you respond today to doctors who are literally overburdened by requests for screening tests, by the administrative burden, by the follow-up of patients? The three-quarters of doctors feel exhausted by the first wave of the epidemic and therefore unable to cope with a possible second wave of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u41	Mr President, Minister, I have put my question to your attention. We all see that the number of infections is increasing and we have received signals from the healthcare sector, more specifically from the general practitioners, who are really moaning during work. After some discussions with the sector we know that you are planning all kinds of things, such as the opening of additional testing centres. The triage centers work very well. However, there is a demand to pay extra attention to the regular visits that come with the coming flu season. My questions are therefore aimed at controlling the numbers of regular visits for general practitioners during the coming flu season. Madam Minister, we are already seeing an increase. Are we prepared to control the combination of flu season and rising COVID cases? How exactly should we do that? Is it intended to open additional test villages? Do you already have a plan for vaccinations and guidelines for the general practitioners?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u42	Mr. President, Madam Prime Minister, we have reached more than 800 cases a day. That's a lot. It must of course be seen as a consequence of the return of holidays and the return of classes. Just see the number of those who close one after another. As you pointed out: barrier actions are essential, as is mass screening. Near my home, in the Walloon Brabant, we are alerted by front-line caregivers and general practitioners, who say they are out of control. Since March, they have been working continuously in support of hospital services. They're corveable at thank you. They are covered by requests for testing and testing, as well as by administrative tasks. In screening centres, it is the generalists who encode patient data, who have to fight against the computer system – which is not always simple and regularly knows bugs – and who have to deal with managing results, since patients turn to them instead of going to the platforms themselves. In short, they are completely overwhelmed and have to deal with stressed patients, some of whom are in financial distress, are impatient and sometimes aggressive – not to mention the equipment that is not always adequate. I am thinking in particular of the shortage of paediatric smear. So it does a lot for general practitioners. My questions are simple, Madam Prime Minister, because I know you're listening. What is the strategy to support front-line caregivers and general practitioners, who are at the end of their lives and no longer see their families? How can the administrative burden, which is very heavy for them, be alleviated, which is not the job? Finally, what is planned to ensure proper hardware orders?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u43	Madam Secretary, the GPs are calling the alarm. They are overwhelmed with ordinary patients and snotting children, but in particular the supervision of the masses of people who need to be tested on COVID-19 puts them in serious trouble. And then winter still has to come. We will not last two weeks, they say, the system is on capsize. Or worse, "We're on our way to a catastrophe." Those are not my words, they are the cries of many general practitioners. September's always busy. We know that snotting children and coughing patients will fill the wards of the general practitioners, but that is not the real problem. The problem is there's still corona cases coming in. The patients come from everywhere and the general practitioners have to make their plan. More and more people are being tested. That is a good thing, but the handling and follow-up of these tests are still done by the general practitioner. It is this administrative burden that is becoming too much for them, and then we are far from the capacity of 70 000 to 90 000 tests a day, which Minister De Backer announced for this winter. Waiting for test results has been going on for far too long, with all the inconveniences this entails for the tested persons, but also for our general practitioners. How will you solve that when there will be twice as many tests? According to a digital poll by Medi-Sfeer and De Specialist, one out of three GPs is not ready for another wave. Nine out of ten, however, try to make the best of it and that graces them. The distress call of our general practitioners sounds loud and clear, but what sounds even louder and even clearer is the deafening silence of this corona government. Madam Secretary, my question is very simple. What will you do to support the general practitioners and ensure that they do not fail in the coming winter? That would be a real disaster. Madam Secretary, show us your plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u44	Mr. Speaker, the Prime Minister, the minister, you have not escaped this, the number of contaminations has doubled in less than two weeks. The problem has become global again and affects all age groups. But the most worrying thing is, of course, the steady increase in hospitalizations. That's the side of the numbers. On the human side, returns are much more worrying. General practitioners are on the verge of saturation, even burn-out. Testing equipment is not delivered in time. They are reliving the situation in March. That's exactly what we didn't want. No one wants a reconfinition. But in fact, schools are starting to close again, universities are in orange code. Several sectors remain at a standstill. And citizens are divided between anxiety and fatigue. Prime Minister, Minister, since the beginning of the summer, we have been asking you about the need to anticipate crisis management in the fall, because we know that management is going to be complex. And here we are: it is already chaos. I urge you to listen to the general practitioners who are on the ground in managing this crisis as well as to other front-line actors, such as pharmacists and nurses who have shown themselves available. My question is this: what do you intend to put in place in the very short term to alleviate the burden of general practitioners? If they collapse, it's the whole system that collapses, and you're well aware of it. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u45	Madam Prime Minister, Madam Minister, the number of new infections is rising to worrying proportions. In the meantime, there are over 1,000 new infections a day. Four things can help us reduce the increase in the number of infections. Firstly, we need sufficient testing capacity. Minister De Backer has announced that the capacity will grow to 50,000 to 70,000, and perhaps even more, tests per day by the end of September, early October. Secondly, a good organisation of the triage centres, which should relieve our general practitioners. Thirdly, it is important that we can effectively test a large number of people so that they can enter quarantine very quickly. Fourthly, we need an app that can help people, of course on a voluntary basis, to protect themselves. I would therefore ask the government to promote this very much. The labs face very important challenges. They must be able to process the tests as soon as possible. They should also be able to quickly pass the results on to the Sciensano database. In this way, infected persons can be quickly detected and quarantined. We have also heard the call from the general practitioners. They are in the front line and currently have a high workload, which may not decrease in the coming weeks. It is also important for them that the triage centres function well and have the necessary bestaffining. The regions have an important role to play in this. I have four very specific questions. Are the labs able to process the increasing number of tests and quickly pass the results on to the Sciensano database? What is the state of play in the better support of triage centres in order to increase capacity? Is there already more information from the RMG about the deployment of additional qualified personnel in the triage centers? What is the role of the federal government in this and what will the regions take on? How soon will the app be available to everyone?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u46	Mr. President, Prime Minister, coronavirus numbers are on the rise. I listened to your speech with great attention. I expected the announcement of concrete measures. Finally, you said that the responsibility was with people. Today, I would like to question you about your responsibility, but also that of Mrs De Block and Mr. De Backer on the necessary implementation of health measures to stem the epidemic. You didn't talk about that! So I wonder if you're listening to what's going on in the field! Mr. De Backer said, and we've known for months, we need 90,000 tests a day. Today, we are at 30,000 tests a day and the system is collapsing. We're waiting for a whole day. I just got a call from the lab I'm working with. He's running out of reagents. The system doesn't know how to follow. The generalists want to do their job. They want to test the patients. They want to consult them, but they can't do their job. I tested a patient on Friday. The positive result was received on Tuesday morning, four days after sampling, while it is known that it takes 24 hours to properly control the epidemic. And while our patients are waiting, politicians, party presidents who needed to be tested because Mr. Lachaert had been tested positive, got their results in a few hours. What a difference! It's not normal! But this shows that on a practical level, it is possible to organize a quick test. With the PTB, we examined the accounts of private laboratories. Not a lot of them have profits, either in the past or today. In the meantime, their staff are in the middle of work. Prime Minister, what are you going to do to force private laboratories to hire staff and deliver results on time? What are you going to do to support public laboratories that don't get away with it and whose staff are on the patellas? What are you going to do to support the first line, which, too, can't do it anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u47	Mr President, the measures that were in force in the summer focused on managing the health situation and had to ensure that everyone could go back to school in September. In this sense, they have proved effective, since the increase in new infections has slowed down and all pupils have been able to go back to school, taking into account a number of health measures, as decided by the National Security Council on 20 August. We know nothing has ever been acquired. Europe is facing a revival of the epidemic. In Belgium too, after a steady decline in all trends, we now see that the virus is starting to spread again. I would like to take a moment to repeat the figures. The reproduction number of the virus for the whole country is 1.36 today, while it was 0.94 in the middle of August, and in some provinces it is even close to 1.5. Although data do not increase to the same extent as in spring, it remains important to analyse trends. Although we knew that the resumption of certain activities, such as the beginning of the school year and the return from vacation, would encourage a revival, trends are alarming. At present young people have been particularly affected, but we are finding an increase in viral infections in all age groups. I took some time to repeat that, because I hear too often, even now, that the situation is not serious, that it is not very but normal. It is true that there is a virus with which we must learn to live, and we do not need to panic, but everyone must be aware that the current situation is worrying and needs to be taken seriously. We all strive for a form of normality in our activities, our social contacts and our life in general. This hunger for freedom is perhaps the strongest among young people. We find that, above all, but not exclusively, the young people are tired of complying with the rules. However, we must not allow ourselves to be cast into the eyes. The virus is still equally dangerous and it circulates more and more. We will all have to continue our efforts. Mental fatigue in humans is also due to the multitude of contradictory reports, both on the analysis of the current situation as such, and on the measures to be taken. Although the democratic debate is of fundamental importance, some might admit that it completely clouds the message about the usefulness of respecting these or those measures. The mental fatigue can also be explained by the multitude of rules, their complexity and the fact that they evolve with time. That is why we have asked Celeval to work on risk management and sustainable longer-term measures. Clearly, we must not wait for a new National Security Council to act. We know the basic rules. Barrier gestures are our first and best protection. We must continue to apply them. Professional circles are aware of the protocols to be implemented to ensure the protection of all. It is indeed important that everyone feels concerned and continues to make efforts. The response to the pandemic is based on individual commitment to a collective momentum. It is this message that I wanted to send clearly to all Belgians in this video. I did not send them this message to blame them or to say that they are the only ones responsible for the pandemic, but to remind them of the basic rules and to say that we will have to continue to live with them for a long time. You have to, always and again, type on the same nail. Whenever we have the opportunity to do so, let the public know that keeping their distance, washing their hands regularly, staying at home when you don't feel well and respecting the obligatory quarantine are now part of our life, of everyday life, and it is thanks to these first protections that we will get away with it. Of course, the authorities have to do their job. Of course, there is still a lot to do. First, a national security council will be held next week as planned on the basis of the preparatory work of the Celeval. It will indeed be held next week because this work takes time. The situation must be taken seriously. We mustn't give in to panic. It is necessary to act properly with an option and a dynamic of risk control. And risk control isn't the case on a case-by-case basis. It is not an immediate call for decisions to be taken very quickly that may not correspond to the evolution of the situation in the long run. It is true that it will not be simple. The difficulty will be to find the right balance between the perfectly normal will, which I share, to simplify the rules, and even to relax them for some. We'll have to do the test. What rules are still applicable? What rules are still worth following and what rules can be set aside? Simplification, indeed! It may be necessary to allow some to organize activities that are not allowed today and, at the same time, to take into account the seriousness of the situation. It will not be easy to find the right decisions, nor will it be easy to communicate them. Mrs. Rohonyi, you talked about communication. Communication is fundamental not only on the part of the authority but also on the part of all: each and every one of us who intervenes in the media, the media themselves, social networks... I really think so. Sometimes we can challenge a few measures. That's quite normal. The democratic debate must take place. However, it is always imperative to recall the basic rules, because the democratic debate cannot encourage us to forget the dangerousness of this virus. In addition to the National Security Council, there are interdepartmental conferences that bring together all relevant regional, community and federal ministers. It is in these conferences that the various measures we adopt are operationalized and that we must discuss the issues raised from the ground. In fact, it was during one of these interdepartmental conferences that we discussed specific issues related to screening and the first line this week that I will leave it to Mrs De Block to explain in detail. However, I can assure you that the question of the first line has been discussed at length because, as much as we are, we have all our doctors, who show us how complicated the situation is. Even if the pandemic is an additional source of work for these doctors, there must be a way to reduce their burden in order to allow them to concentrate on what is essential, namely the well-being of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u48	It is true that the number of infections is increasing, not just in our country. According to the World Health Organization, the number of infections is increasing in all European states. This is a real problem given the existing traffic between countries. It is also true, as the Prime Minister has said, that the rate of reproduction is currently high. It is 1.36. In some provinces, it is higher, and in others, it is less. We also see a daily increase in the number of hospitalizations. Yesterday, 74 beds were occupied in intensive care units. That's 5 per cent. It is not a question of saying that hospitals are already overburdened, but they are concerned about this increase. I would add that 36% of hospitalizations take place in Brussels hospitals. I can understand their concerns. In any event, the situation is taken seriously Indeed, the average positivity rate for Belgium is 3%. In Brussels, it is more than 6%, more than double the figure. Both the Regions and Sciensano and the Risk Management Group are monitoring the situation on a day-to-day basis. In addition, a National Security Council is scheduled for next week. All preparations are under way and all measures that could be addressed are considered. I can only repeat what I said several times yesterday: continue to apply the basic rules at all times and everywhere, including in your own home. We know they're helping. It is annoying to hear them repeat: limiting the number of contacts, keeping away, staying home immediately when sick, wearing a mouth mask when keeping away is not possible and washing or disinfecting hands at all times. However, if we were to follow them all together, in every age group, we could avoid more serious measures. Nobody wants to go back to a lockdown. So we're gonna have to put all the sails in place to dive into this new outbreak of the virus. In the meantime, we're working hard to put our health care on alert. We are not just doing this, we are doing it together with the carers, with the colleagues in the Länder, through the inter-ministerial conferences, and with the colleagues in the government. The first caregivers who experience the increase in the number of infections are indeed the general practitioners and the reduction and triage centres. So that's the first line. The first line is the main line for the first defense and the gatekeeper who can show the patients the way. The first-line organisation, including testing and triage centres, is indeed a competence of the Länder, with which we work hard through the inter-ministerial conferences. The RIZIV takes on the start-up costs for new triage or test centres and also covers the performance of nurses and doctors working in the triage and purchasing centres. We're looking at how we can make a further delegation there to other people. The centres can also apply for additional personal protective equipment and call on the national platform of labs under the responsibility of my fellow Minister De Backer, if there is insufficient capacity or for rapid sampling or analysis, especially if there are cluster outbreaks. Triage and purchasing centres may call on home nurses if they are understaffed to take samples. Our hospitals are indeed concerned. They have survived the first wave well, but they want to do everything they can to avoid a second wave. Doctors and nurses, but also all the other people who work in hospitals, want to catch their breath in these months. Our capacity, for example the number of intensive care beds, can be quickly increased to relieve the hospitals that have reached their maximum capacity. Those plans were there and there. They were used and revisited. Everything has been put in place to deal with this new flare-up. Any citizen in this country, anyone, can help the caregivers and remove their concerns by respecting all measures anytime and anywhere. In the meantime, in the Inter-Ministerial Conference, we have developed a clear roadmap that allows everyone in their area of competence to monitor the pandemic and respond in a coordinated manner. The aim is, for example, to continue to improve the organisation of sampling and to align prevention measures with the testing strategy. Similarly, to save time, it is necessary to optimize data for health professionals and enable them to work in a more targeted and effective way. Finally, clear information must be provided to them and to citizens. As far as testing is concerned, I also see a lot of misunderstandings. My colleague Philippe De Backer, who is busy day and night with the tests, can explain it to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u49	The point about the tests is actually a next question and is not in this group. We're gonna stick to the order anyway. I suggest we finish the replies first. For the question to Mr De Backer, I have an additional question from Mrs Depoorter, from the committee. So we will respect that order.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u50	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers and I hear you take the situation seriously. However, first, governments repeat the same mistakes as in February: insufficient anticipation, slow and late reactions, and too little listening and support for the field and caregivers. The situation in which we are today was predictable and you said so! We knew this was going to happen. So why not take additional measures in a timely manner, and why not speed up this famous device and strengthen it: test, isolate the positives and trace it? There are shortcomings at all levels. You're mainly talking about young people. It is true that it is they who are mainly affected today, but the latest studies show well, at the international level, that the affected young people will also pass on to the most vulnerable adults and people. You are reacting today with a delay in relation to the virus. Yes, the response to the pandemic depends on everyone, but responsibility for the various governments is important: acting faster, more strongly and more effectively is the only solution to deal with this epidemic again tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u51	Ministers, thank you for your answers. I continue to regret, however, the absence of three crucial elements in the management of this crisis. First of all, there is a lack of real support for caregivers. Even if you have to cut our ears down to tell us that the testing capacity is 80 thousand tests a day, it is clear that in the field, we do not follow. Secondly, there is a lack of a real assessment of the management of this crisis, because we cannot wait until the work of the Special Committee on VOCID is completed to learn from it. Finally, there is a lack of clear and focused communication, particularly for young people. Because today, what's going on? Young people are attacked on social networks by fake news, conspiracy theses, in which citizens are lost. Finally, they put their lives at risk by adhering to some of these theses. It is true that in this regard, Madam Prime Minister, we all have a role to play (the media, Parliament, the government). But it must be remembered, if only in relation to the question of wearing the mask, because I hear the Prime Minister reminding us of its importance, that the government has never been very clear on this issue. I hope the National Security Council can... (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u52	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for the answers. It is clear that the most important thing is to keep citizens informed and to ask them to remain vigilant about the measures you have just listed. There are a lot of hygiene measures that could dampen the crisis. However, public health is a team sport. I therefore hope that, at the forthcoming National Security Council, we will again see a strong Prime Minister and Ministers who will keep the communication to the citizens clear so that we can ensure that we can fight the crisis together.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u53	You have mentioned this, Madam Prime Minister, and I am aware of the difficult work that must be done to balance the well-being of citizens with the strict health rules necessary to contain the virus. You also said: you are listening. We know that. You have never been afraid to go to the field, to meet the health care staff, to realize his difficulties and to answer him. You also responded that it should be possible to reduce the burden for general practitioners and front-line caregivers. Ms De Block added that devices were being put in place, in particular to relieve them via the IT platform. It was essential that staff members be heard and responded to. Today, I trust you. I hope they do, too. It was important to reassure them. In addition, it was essential that children go back to school and today we probably need to be even more demanding, but above all we need to listen and allow everyone to continue to live with this virus as much as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u54	Madam Secretary, your whim about sitting together, doing a lot and doing a lot was actually predictable. But apparently it's far from enough. That's obvious. Testing, testing and testing again. That was always the motto of the Flemish interest, because measuring is knowing. But where are the test villages, the test streets and test points? If more testing is to be carried out, it will also be necessary to ensure that these tests can be processed quickly and accurately. This cannot be put on the back of the general practitioners alone. The common thread throughout the corona crisis is that you are always following the facts. We find that once again there is no concrete plan. There was no plan at the beginning, at the exit, for the holiday, and now apparently there is no plan for the autumn either. However, the general practitioners already asked for that autumn plan on 7 July 2020. Madam Secretary, it has to be different. Support our general practitioners and our doctors in the triage centers. Give them more breathing space. At least answer their cry for help.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u55	Prime Minister, Minister, thank you for your response. I hope that these measures will move quickly in the right direction. As you said, you're going to have to learn to live with this virus in the long term. What will be our society's response to this health crisis? The answer lies in political, scientific and democratic debate. It is now that we must organize it. I hear CELEVAL is working on it. We will pay close attention to the communications that will be made at the National Security Council. However, we draw your attention to the fact that the first step, the first step, is to listen to what the field has to teach us. I urge you to listen to him now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u56	Madam Prime Minister, Minister, it is indeed important that we continue to repeat the rules and that we continue to explain why these rules are important. You both do that, and I would like to thank you for that, because let us be very honest, the reduction of this crisis is a task for all of us. Madam Secretary, you have already made it possible in the past for home nurses to carry out tests. I have heard that medical students would like to help with testing but cannot do so at the moment. [[Madam Minister, I think it's possible.]] . They seem to be able to do that by now. That is a good thing, because I wanted to call for solutions to be found. I believe very strongly in the app. An app can help us map infections. It is important that this is done voluntarily. I would ask that everyone be called upon to install and use that app, because that too will help us to overcome this health crisis.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u57	Madam Prime Minister, Mrs De Block, I have actually received zero concrete answers. You have announced concrete measures. It is not normal for people to have to wait three to four days for a test result and politicians get it in a few hours. That's three days when these people can't go to work and lose their jobs in the case of interim work, that they have to seek shelter for the children and that the virus is now circulating. Mrs. De Block, you say everything's been ready, but have you talked to the GPs lately? Honestly, we don't remember when our day starts and ends. My colleague called back the people who were waiting for an answer from early in the morning on Monday until 10:00 p.m. That's not normal. It is time for this government to listen to first-line care and also listen to the solutions put forward by the general practitioners, because they bring solutions such as reducing the administrative burden. We urgently need help and reinforcement of primary care, because no, not everything has been put in place.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u58	Minister, testing capacity has been at the heart of the debate since March, the beginning of the pandemic. Six months ago, where have we been? We must note that the screening policy is still so weak. As you said, Madam Prime Minister and Minister of Health, the virus is circulating more actively today – today we are talking about a reproductive rate of 1.36%. Holiday returns continue. With the coming winter season, colds and flus are emerging. The solution - testing and isolating - remains essential in order to avoid the spread of this virus for as long as possible. But what do we see on the ground? The sorting centres are overwhelmed by administration and paperwork. The labs are all the same. They're even beginning to say they're out of date. General practitioners tell us that they are at a standstill because of the workload, which is exploding, as well as the lack of reagents and swabs. And when these are available, they are not of good quality and cause injuries. In a word, the results fall far too late, minister. I won't ask you about the number of tests and the ability to test. We've discussed it enough. I would just like to know, for the coming months, whether we have sufficient reagents and swabs and good quality. How will you optimize the operation of the sorting centres so that they can devote themselves to their primary task, namely testing? Will you support general practitioners in their testing and follow-up mission and, to do so, reduce their administrative burden, so that they can finally take care of their patients? Finally, will you guarantee that each person tested will receive the results within the 48 hours promised?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u59	Minister, Minister, I read in a World Bank publication that our country would have bought COOVID test kits for EUR 9 million in 2018. Can you give me some clarification on that? Is that right? Is it actually about testing for the COVID virus, yes or no? Depending on the day on which the website is consulted, other names are shown for these kits. That's special, isn't it? The number remains the same, the product code remains the same, but the name is different. Both are correct, it's a medical test kit. It's probably also a COVID test kit, but how do you explain that change? Which lab were those test kits delivered to? Can you tell me that?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u60	Mrs Depoorter, the question you are asking is based on a hoax. Fake news. Reuters and Associated Press have already demonstrated this in a number of articles. The answer to your question is therefore clear: no. The genome of the COVID virus was only mapped at the end of December, beginning of January. There could therefore be no COOVID test kits for that time. You can also find that information publicly. I therefore regret that this question had to be put in Parliament on the basis of fake news. Anyway, nothing's weird to us, I'll just say. I come to Mrs Tillieux's question, which is essential. I know very well that the pressure is high, for the moment, on sorting centres and laboratories. In April-May, we contacted the Clinical Biology Commission to study how we could help laboratories increase their capacity, and we worked with them in this regard. Clinical labs have invested. Many machines have arrived in the laboratories. Capacity is therefore increasing. I personally contacted the various reagent and swab suppliers to request and negotiate more capacity. They've increased their deliveries. For example, for the new machines, they doubled or even tripled the number. If today 36,000 people are tested without the system falling apart, it is clearly because the clinical laboratories have done their duty. At the same time, the federal platform, in support of these clinical laboratories, makes screening in nursing homes. If there is a cluster outbreak local, there too, the federal platform is set up for use, in consultation with regional agencies. Of course sorting centers and general practitioners are also under pressure. We have had a lot of discussions with them. How to organize sorting centres? We have established a protocol with the Regions. It is clearly stipulated that the organisation of sorting centres is a competence of the Regions. We are supporting them. For weeks I pleaded with the Regions to open more sorting centres, because we saw what was happening now. We need to find solutions today. And we already have. We have relieved general practitioners, for example by giving automatic prescription codes to people returning from a red zone and to people who have had high-risk contact. These people no longer go through general practitioners. They are directly oriented towards laboratories. We also provided the opportunity to engage different profiles to carry out sampling in sorting centres. We helped improve computer systems. For example, we have developed an appointment planning tool in sorting centres. Thus, the organization is better. In conjunction with the first line, we have already put in place many things, or are in the process of putting them in place. For the winter, it is clear that we still need to increase capacity. Federal platform bis is already under way. The first machines have arrived and are installed in the eight different locations selected to operate in pairs with conventional clinical laboratories. By mid-October or the end of October, we will have a capacity of between 70 and 90,000 tests per day. It is essential, but it is also essential that the Regions take responsibility, increase the number of sorting centres and provide additional support to general practitioners to carry out these samples.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u61	Minister, in April you mentioned 10,000 tests. At the same time, your colleague Clarinval mentioned 30,000 or 40,000 to 60,000 tests. Last July, you yourself said that your services were operational for 30,000 tests and even mentioned the possibility of reaching 70,000 tests. In theory, we are pleased with these objectives, but in practice we are far from them. We really need to make progress in that regard. Unfortunately, the second wave is at our doorstep, shortages are resurfaced and staff on the ground are exhausted. I have in front of me a letter from laboratories, which clearly admits to limiting the quantities of tests sent to doctors and medical centres. So there are shortages and limitations. I would therefore like the announcement effects and, above all, the illusory announcements to cease. There is a real need for an effective screening policy. We need to listen to the ground and take action quickly, even if only out of respect for all those who are trying to follow the recommendations and implement the barrier actions, and for all those who work on the ground on a daily basis to combat the virus.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u62	Minister, do you know what I think is much worse than your answer? That's not news. That is not news when a parliamentary question is asked, when a parliamentary question is asked for and not even received as part of the public administration, even if it is 30 days after the facts. We do not receive any news on all the questions we have asked you in the Committee on Health and the Special Committee on COOVID-19. What is even worse is that in a democratic hemisphere you shrink the micro if you are not told what you would like to hear. Didn't you feel like dealing with this crisis? I've been wondering that for months. In the beginning of the crisis, you needed the general practitioners to filter. Because you didn't have enough tests. The general practitioners had to be called to ensure that the tests were spent as well as possible. At that time you also ensured that there was no regular continuity of care. There are tests today, but those doctors still have to continue that work. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u63	Madam Secretary, there are over 10,000 innocent people in a humane situation in Moria's camp. It is clear that a stronger and common European policy is needed. Today's policy leads to nothing. It even leads to shameful situations. Our first concern is, of course, the situation there. Madam Minister, it is good that you have worked within a European policy. Europe has proposed and decided to transfer 400 unaccompanied minors to Europe. You have fulfilled, proportionally, your commitment of 3 %. In addition, you have decided to take over another 100 to 150 vulnerable families within a European framework. Ladies and gentlemen, this European framework must be based on solidarity and tolerance, but also on law-and-order. Asylum policy must be strict, but fair. Only in this way can we control the flow of migration. After all, the biggest problem in the migration debate is the return policy. It is not normal for Belgium to be able to return only 18% of the people who have been executed, while Europe is able to return twice as many refugees, which is 36%, which is even a small number. Those who have no right to remain here must return, voluntarily if they can, if they have to. Mrs. De Block, we shouldn't be fainting either. Taking over 400 kids might actually be symptom control. Europe will have to act more vigorously. I hope to find a partner in you for that. That is why I have a few specific questions. You authorized 12 children and some families to come here. How big is the reception network in our country, taking account of the Communities? You indicated that you were in contact with the Greek government. Is there a timing on that? Will Belgium give any other support? I am thinking of tents and blankets. Finally, are you prepared to join the European cart, which is so necessary, so that each country would accept its responsibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u64	Mr van Grieken, other colleagues have said that you do not comply with the commitments made at the Conference of Presidents. Your group has just been present in plenary with six Members. There was a different agreement on this, but I know that there are two types of agreement: on the one hand, the agreements that everyone respects and on the other hand, the agreements that you seem to think are not intended for you. Yesterday we said that we would review these agreements next Wednesday and that three people per group would be present in plenary for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, we have all seen the poignant images of the children on the Greek islands. Those images and photos went through marrow and bone. No one here does not want to help these people, but to open our hearts does not mean that we must open our borders. Wanting to help people in need doesn't necessarily mean we have to bring in all these migrants. It is an absolutely bad idea, Mrs De Block, to bring 150 extra refugees here. It's a wrong signal. The signal is: "Fire your tent, and we will bring you here." My question is quite clear. Mrs. De Block, would you like to reconsider your decision? I think there's a much better solution. We have to help the people there. We need to work on a genuine Australian approach with pushbacks and safe hotspots outside the European Union. That is the only humane and workable solution. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u66	Minister, the situation of migrants and their families on the island of Lesbos in Greece is well known. The fire that ravaged the Moria camp is a disaster for the 12,000 people who found refuge there, who find themselves homeless and in deplorable sanitary conditions. A police operation is under way today, in order to transfer thousands of these people to a new emergency camp. The authorities recalled the temporary nature of this emergency camp, the aim of which is that refugees may gradually leave the island for Athens or be resettled elsewhere. You announced Belgium's participation in the Franco-German initiative and in the care of 100 to 150 vulnerable migrants. Does our reception system allow for the proper reception of these people? How do you intend to do this? This serious incident in the Moria camp is an opportunity to reflect on a structural solution to the issue of migration. We must continue to harmonise asylum policies at European level and reform Dublin. This harmonisation should improve Member States' accountability and awareness of the right to asylum and assistance for refugees. In her speech on the state of the Union yesterday, the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen just announced that she wanted to replace the current Dublin Regulation with a new European system of migration governance. On 23 September it will present a new pact on migration. What is your position on this announcement? What are the main elements for you that should serve as the basis for this reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u67	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the whole of Europe has seen with horror the images of Moria's camp in flames, a camp that Jean Ziegler described just a few months ago as the shame of Europe. 13,000 people, 13,000 shipwrecked, men, women, children, who had almost nothing left and who survived there in unworthy health and safety conditions, saw what was left of them and the precarious shelter that was theirs. In the face of this tragic humanitarian situation, this unbearable distress, we were waiting for an answer. It is therefore with relief, Madam Minister, that we learned last night that the number of vulnerable migrants to be welcomed in Belgium has been increased. It is an effort that must be read in the light of what other European countries, such as France and Germany, have announced. The reception of these people is a voluntary, humane, responsible and necessary reaction. It's an emergency aid in a dramatic situation. But we must not be mistaken, solidarity with the countries of southern Europe on the front lines in the face of this difficult situation cannot remain the fact of a small group of voluntary countries, in reactions on a case-by-case basis. The whole of Europe has seen this horror, but only part of it has reached out to solidarity and humanity. We have to change the approach! Madam Minister, beyond this one-off reaction, what are the short-term prospects for structurally helping Greece and the other southern European countries in managing migration flows? Commission President von der Leyen announces a new European migration pact for next week. She also said: "Never again, Moria!" She doesn't want it anymore. What is the government's position on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u68	When I hear what is sometimes said in this room, where did we end up? We see children as a blackmail agent, children without choice, children without a future, and now without a roof. Where are we gonna go if we're gonna hang out like that? One of the previous speakers shouted murder and fire and claimed that these children are being used as blackmail. Other colleagues are asking for an exception because of this disaster. You, Madam Minister, will perhaps reply in a moment that a European approach is needed. What else can I do? How is this debate going to be broken? How can children who are fleeing a war not only be seen as a number in the future? There are more camps in Greece. And a match was quickly found. The locals have been under pressure for years. The situation of refugees is hopeless. Europe pretends that the problem does not exist. This situation has been flammable for years. If one of my predecessors thinks that we should protect the region, invest in educational opportunities, invest in health, invest in safety, then come up with a real proposal, with the euros that will ensure that we can do what is necessary. If, Madam Minister, you think it is really important that this is addressed at European level, why do you not put this high on the agenda? If there are colleagues who like me think that it has been enough, let us work out a proposal together. It would be a proposal to speed up asylum procedures, to share efforts in Europe in a fair way. In this story too, each part is nothing too much. I do not believe in magical solutions, but I do believe in proposals that take a step forward. Madam Secretary, do not leave this debate to the screamers. Let us all act proactively instead of waiting for the next tragedy. Madam Minister, can you guarantee that you have not only consulted Greece in your consultation with Greece, but also with all the other European countries so that a humane solution can be found for all children?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u69	Madam Minister, before the fire in the refugee camp, Moria was also a disgrace to the European Union. A camp full of vulnerable people, who had to wait years for their asylum application to be processed, and who were packed at 13,000 in a camp that was actually intended for 3,000 people. A daily struggle for life. After the fire, we can't look away. Everyone's seen the footage of kids sleeping on the side of the road. It is an acute emergency, in fact it is unworthy of Europe. This is really unworthy of our ideals. If we leave those people there to their fate, where can we get our pride for our own European project? It is good that our country is now making an effort, and that it has also increased that effort to accommodate 150 vulnerable people. Because we must never hesitate when people are affected by such a humanitarian tragedy. Mrs De Block, there is broad support in Parliament for this effort. That support was there earlier this year, that support is there today, and that support will not change anytime soon. Of course, a structural solution is needed. A European solution is needed. We need a European humane but also realistic asylum and immigration policy. Belgium cannot do this alone. But unfortunately, the people of Moria have no message about that. This means that our country must be able to intervene quickly and offer rapid protection and security to all those who are in a vulnerable situation. I would ask you to explain the position and position of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u70	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. There is indeed a humanitarian emergency on Lesbos. It is therefore normal that Belgium should lend a helping hand and show solidarity with Greece, which, moreover, is a very important partner in European migration policy, lies at the border of Europe and therefore takes on a very important role in the surveillance of external borders. Last Friday, the federal government immediately decided to help Greece where necessary, first and foremost by offering B-FAST, together with goods, tents, mattresses and blankets. The Greek authorities said they do not need doctors, but they do need goods and they were sent to the island on weekends. About the 406 unaccompanied minor children who were on the island and who were immediately evacuated to the mainland because of the danger, they were asked, albeit very partially, to take care of these children in a European context. Eleven countries have promised to do so, and we have included our proportional share. In addition to the 18 unaccompanied minors who have been in our country for several months, 12 unaccompanied minors will be admitted. That's a small part that came up in a rather unfortunate way. The fact that there are 12,000 refugees on the island, of which Belgium takes up 12, has led to quite a lot of funny newspaper titles and, Mr De Vriendt, you have also made an eager use of them. I think it is inappropriate, given the humanitarian disaster that has occurred, to roar the great drum on all radio stations, even though we are actually working together with the Greek authorities. Expressing statements with possible promises is easy, but we have to deliver on what we promise. We may not be getting the highest numbers, but we're picking up those numbers. We've agreed to receive 18 children and they're here. There are countries that have announced that they will receive 36 children, but those children are still not included in the countries concerned, so those children are still in a precarious situation. So doing what one promises is something else. It is not just about unaccompanied minors, there are also pictures of other children who are in a precarious situation, but who still have their parents or one of them or who care about an adult. An effort had to be made for this too, because what is the difference between a child who is alone or a child who still has a parent, but who also needs to sleep on the street? That's just as bad for that kid. For them too, our Greek colleague asked for an effort. I set up an appointment on Friday for yesterday morning at 11:00. I had said that we would first ask the Greek colleague what Greece wants and what help we can offer. On the weekend we took care of what was urgent from the very first moment. I therefore immediately gave the order to examine as soon as possible what could be done within this framework and to propose it. We immediately identified what we could do and made contact to propose it with the result that B-FAST would send sleeping bags, blankets, mattresses, etc. This weekend in Greece. In addition, we are still ready, and I repeated yesterday, to send a mobile laboratory or a medical team, but the Greek authorities must first determine their specific needs. They pleasantly received our proposal and informed us that they would inform us of their needs. We also reacted quickly to accommodate unaccompanied minors. The initiative is currently in the hands of the German Presidency. The German Presidency will therefore coordinate repatriation, which must be done as soon as possible. In the previous exercise, only a fraction of the promised relocation of 1,600 minors was achieved by the other Member States. That is what we must say in Europe. The loudest callers of the day before yesterday would do well to take a look at that. We agreed in a very constructive discussion to continue working together on structural solutions at the European level. It is important that we are partners in this. In a joint declaration we pointed out the future structural solutions that need to be found. So in the next few weeks or months, together with the 12 unaccompanied minors, 100 to 150 vulnerable asylum seekers will come to our country. The Greek Minister has also assured me that they do not always want to resort to an ad hoc policy, but rather to seek a structural solution for their country, which has had a very heavy part of the migratory pressure for years. This migration will always be there, but Belgium has already done more than its fair share as a destination. It is therefore a good thing that European Commissioner Johansson will come up with a global plan next week. It will not be easy to implement that plan, but the plan assumes that each Member State must do its fair share. Each Member State must show solidarity and responsibility in order to prevent one Member State, such as Greece, from doing 13 times more than another. Mrs Johansson held a lot of consultations with all her colleagues responsible for Asylum and Migration. She really puts her shoulders to it and also has the support of Mrs von der Leyen and the other members of the Commission. I sincerely hope that the promised Pact on Migration will provide an appropriate response. We have already explained our long-term vision to the European Commissioner on several occasions. Our administrations have also fully participated in the elaboration of the elements in the plan. I hope for better health, because there is a standstill of more than six years in European legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u71	There are still Morias, there are still lunatics with a match, there are still children without parents in the camps. That is why I call on everyone to put into practice this fair share, which you mentioned, Madam Minister, in order to achieve a strong European asylum and migration policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u72	Mrs De Block, you stick to your point that you want to bring more asylum seekers here. I see the Greens and sp.a rubbing their hands. I've got to get something off my chest. It is actually the left-wing parties who abuse children. It is the left-wing parties who abuse minors and ram their open border policies through the throats of the Flemings, with the support of Open Vld and CD&V. The government may not have officially started yet, but the policy and vision are clear: more immigration, more open borders. That is not what the Flemish voted for on 26 May 2019. That is why I am proud that my party is organising a protest drive against this purple-green government on Sunday 27 September. This government will never be my government.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u73	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. We must aim at an asylum policy at European level that is fair, humane, supportive and responsible. Persons who have access to asylum must be welcomed with dignity and must be integrated. Those who do not have access to it must return to a specific humanitarian framework and fight against the channels of passage which are a serious problem in themselves. The situation faced by migrants on the island of Lesbos can no longer be repeated and our countries must show solidarity and unity. That is what we expect from the migration pact that the Commission will propose. We will be very attentive to the proposals that will be there and will take the necessary decisions to ensure that the system in place is the best possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u74	Minister, we need to change our approach. All the countries of the European Union must take their fair share in the effort to restore their dignity to those who are stuck in these camps of shame. The time has come for structural, responsible and compulsory solidarity. It is time for a common migration policy to stop emergency reactions and shame camps, Madam Minister. We have to go. We need to move forward and we ask you to bring this message to the European level. We can no longer just react, but we must act. We no longer want Moria and we want to be proud to be European, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u75	Madam Minister, it is good that you stressed the need for a solution at European level. It is also good to hear that steps have already been taken. However, you have also stressed that this debate has been going on for more than six years. If there is anyone who can rub their hands in this situation, you are, Mr Van Grieken. The only thing we are asking is for a genuinely humane policy to be put in place, for real solutions to be found. All you do is look away and tell fake news, because that's convenient for you. People are worried when people from another country come here. They have questions about the unknown and how to deal with it. All you do is strengthen that fear. The difference between you and me is that we are looking for solutions. I have not heard a solution from you so far. Madam Secretary, I'm glad you're taking steps. For the time being, I hope that you will continue to pull that cart, because if solidarity in Europe is broken, then you will see what happens. Then we get camps like Moria and many others. Keep going on that road.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u76	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, migration must not be a part of our society. I'd like to ask you to stop doing that. Saving a 5 year old child from the gutter in Moria must not be a reason to polarize, Mr Van Grieken. A piece of humanity can unite our society. Humanity doesn't divide. Everyone knows how difficult the migration debate is. Everyone knows the difficult decisions involved. However, most people are ready to make these difficult decisions. Let us stop exploiting the theme of migration as an electoral splinter bomb in our society. That is really what needs to be done now.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, imagine: you say that someone of your political colour would be a good prime minister, or you simply say your opinion, or you simply share a photo on a summer's day online. What kind of reactions can you expect? Let's be honest, that depends on who you are. Not everyone gets messages where words fall like "a whore more or less has little importance." Not everyone gets reports of anal sex, or "you'd better get raped," or "you're a stupid cunt who doesn't understand that." If you think this is rude, just know I'm still covering up half of it. But why are we doing this? Why do we continue to tolerate this? Why are we hiding messages online? Why does everyone recommend ignoring them? Just so we're clear, this isn't about me. It doesn't affect me because two thousand messages have already preceded it. But it's an online plague culture. It's about slut-shaming, about women, men, people who want to take their opinions and thus their dignity away. Today I am not standing here to hear from you, Madam Secretary, that you distance yourself from unfriendly language. That doesn't solve anything. I'm standing here in front of someone who's many years younger than me and who's reading this for the first time. A person who, at a much younger age than one would like, realizes or learns that, unfortunately, her opinion does not matter or that he does not want to express that opinion. These people need to hear that it does matter, that they can feel attacked, that it can touch them and they don't have to be ashamed. Young people are exactly the groups that are very sensitive to this kind of comment. The writer knows that. We know that. But unfortunately, nothing is happening. Madam Secretary, you know that social media channels have a lot of information about their users. I wonder when we're finally gonna use this information to stop online harassment.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u78	Thank you for your question. I think it is clear that sexism, homophobia and racism are increasing in our society. Women, people with a migration background, Holebi's and many others are the victims of this. The rapid evolution of social media has led to a new channel where anonymous hate speech is often widely disseminated. You're asking for a vigorous approach. I agree with that. There is already a basis in the 2007 anti-discrimination laws that punish the inciting of discrimination, hatred and violence, but I agree with you that the current arsenal of measures needs to be strengthened. I think we should do this in different ways. First of all, I am talking about national action plans that we are working on today. Hate speech is one of the priority objectives in those action plans. This needs to be further developed, and this needs to be made concrete. In addition, the legal framework needs to be made more rigorous and effective. You are right to say that the responsibility of the Internet platforms, which must prevent, treat and remove hate messages, should be made more legally binding. Not only the legal framework, but also accompanying measures remain important to draw up codes of conduct and charters in cooperation with them. Consider, among other things, the recognition of trusted flagger status. It is extremely important that we can do this. I am convinced that human monitoring alone will not be enough to take things offline. We will have to use the technological tools much better than we do today to detect and remove things. I am thinking of certain algorithms and specific datasets that are necessary for this. Finally, sensitisation remains very important. We need to make people aware of stereotypes and prejudices that can lead to racism and sexism, but I think it is also extremely important to continue to focus on the sensitisation of victims in order to effectively complain. You know I've done a lot of that in the last few months. Only then can we go all the way forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u79	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. It's absurd how quickly Facebook removes a naked picture of her social media channel, but when it comes to hate reactions, it doesn't happen at all or too slow. It is good to hear that an action plan is being drawn up, but it is all very slow. People, many of whom are young people, face this every day. It's come to this that we all think it's normal. We're already used to it happening. It shouldn't be. For a fourteen or fifteen-year-old confronted with such hate messages, the impact is enormous. I'm glad you want to take action, but this can't wait. Better today than tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u80	We decided yesterday in the Conference of Presidents that, following the debate, other groups could also register for the debate, in an order which they themselves agreed, and that the interpreters would be given 10 minutes' speaking time and the others would be given 5 minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u81	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, today, 17 September 2020, is the date when pre-former and mateke Conner Rousseau said that there should be absolutely a government and that otherwise there should be early elections. CD&V, Ecolo-Groen and even the PS have also made statements to this effect. In this country, however, we unfortunately know what statements and promises of power parties are worth: even less than nothing, less than an Arco share, nothing at all. Madam Prime Minister, you too are wiping your feet at the promise you made here in Parliament on 17 March 2020. I will remind you of what you literally promised: 'In addition, I will ask Parliament for confidence again within six months at the latest'. That's what you formally declared at the time. Two days later, you repeated that promise in French. You might remember that better. "In addition, I will come back at the latest in six months to ask for your confidence again." Madam Prime Minister, promise makes guilt. It is an unlikely contempt that you are not fulfilling that commitment today. The Vivald parties have lost not only the elections but also all the decency. Six months ago, they abused the corona crisis to set up a government that no one wants, which in no way takes into account the election results and which has only 38 out of 150 seats. The agreement was that it would be a government for up to six months. In a democracy, it can be assumed that the voter will decide, but at least Parliament will decide, if there will be changes and those agreements will be returned to. Colleagues of the Vivaldi parties, this is not the case in Belgium. Your party chairmen decide that among themselves in the wings and behind the curtains. They give the scoop of the order they give you to the King. The greatest anti-democrat of all, Sun King Bouchez, even made himself angry that the break of the Prime Minister's word was leaked to the press. That's how far we've come. Those party chairmen have so little notion of parliamentary democracy that they even had to learn from you, President-in-Office of the Council, about motions of censure and, above all, about the limited possibilities for circumventing that motion. Mr President, I can assure you that the Flemish interest certainly does not need such lessons. I promise you that we will use all the democratic means at our disposal here in Parliament and outside Parliament to fight a left-wing anti-Flemish coalition that is on its way. On land, at sea and in the air, as Mr Francken so beautifully quoted Gerolf Annemans. Madam Prime Minister, even with your hoped-for coalition partners, the mood is not great. With CD&V they don't need 'Eveline' to be exposed. Mr De Crem, your Minister for the Interior, with whom you would like to continue for a few weeks, today declares that purple-green is unthinkable for the local CD&Ver. The Liberals are even worse. Egbert Lachaert initially said that the Ecolo-Green ritual program should be burned before they could form a government together, but he is now making a pre-formative note that is most similar to the Ecolo and Green program. Those are not my words, but those of your esteemed Minister Pieter De Crem. Madam Prime Minister, you have two options today. The first possibility, as you yourself have repeatedly announced in French and in your Dutch, is that you ask for the confidence of your government to continue until there is a new government. If there were any confidence between the Vivaldi negotiating parties, that confidence would be merely a formality. Then you could at least continue the circus with some back-up until perhaps you arrive at a government that can muddle for a few more years, trying to pretend that the electoral Belgium is not changing, as if Belgium is not the composition of two fundamentally different democracies and the Community's standstill can simply be continued. Just keep going is the option in the hermetically closed bubble in which Belgian power parties have been locked up for years, far away from any reality. You also have another option. This possibility should be self-evident in a normal democracy. If the mistrust between parties negotiating more than 400 days after elections is still so great that they do not even dare to vote in confidence today, the only other decent option is to offer this government the resignation. That would happen in any democracy in this situation. New elections would be held. However, it seems that you will not do either. If we can believe the press, you'll want to sit around after September 17th. I hope you will contradict that later. You want to sit down until 17 September because it will be completely hilarious, which we could also read in the newspaper otherwise it will become a circus. Madam Prime Minister, what do you think the ordinary man and woman in the street think? Wetstraat has been a circus since election day. What do you think the citizen affected by the corona crisis thinks of an endless band of informers, preformers, bricoleurs, royal commissioners? What do you think that the ordinary man and woman in the street think of going on endlessly and turning around in vain and blaming each other for what doesn't work anymore in this country, forming a federal government? What do you think that the man and the woman in the street think of mini-partyes that argue about mainly postage after 400 days, do not even know who can become a reformer and who want to set up a policy on sale, opposite to what they actually voted for? What do you think this citizen thinks, Madam Prime Minister? You often claim that we feed anti-politics. In psychiatry, it's called projection, when one projects one's own flaws and mistakes on another. You feed the anti-politics. We want to put an end to this mad and distasteful circus. The only binding force these Vivaldi parties have is the fear of the electorate, the fear of democracy. A politician who is afraid of elections is like a swimmer with fear of water or a roof worker with fear of heights or like a night watchman who is afraid of the dark. He definitely doesn't belong here. Madam Prime Minister, you can keep looking away, I'm just yours, but I think you can put that arrogance aside today to listen. You have two options today: asking for confidence or resigning. Which one is it gonna be? No matter how one spins or twists, there is no other democratic third way. I'm very curious.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u82	Madam Prime Minister, six months ago, you committed yourself to soliciting the confidence of the government again. According to your remarks, it was then a question of great union, unity and gathering. Things have changed a lot. I think I can say that at the CDH we have been constructive, as several negotiators have acknowledged. We have made every effort to contribute to an end to the crisis and to bring our projects in the fields of health, police, justice and climate, at the socio-economic level, for the self-employed and SMEs, for a new social pact and for a fairer taxation. Some did not want the CDH to remain at the negotiating table, including action. This does not give us any bitterness or revanchards, on the contrary, obviously, of parties who spoke here at the beginning of the sitting. Parties that, obviously, are thirsty for revenge and are in the starting blocks to lead a federalism of combat. The health crisis that we are experiencing demands precisely the opposite. We have already seen too much of a ping-pong game between the different levels of power in the last twelve months. Everyone is competent, but too often no one is responsible. It is first and foremost essential to lead a positive federalism based on collaboration. Things have changed well, but it does not prevent us from remaining constructive and finally wishing for the rapid establishment of a government with a majority in Parliament. Above all, it remains to be hoped that this is for an ambitious project, which the country desperately needs. Seven parties are going to put your minority government back in the saddle today, despite your promise six months ago. No doubt you're going to say it's only for two weeks. Six months ago, we trusted you six months ago, here in the House. It was through the press that we learned on 9 September that seven party presidents had decided behind the scenes to extend you for another two weeks, without even bothering to inform all those who had given you confidence here in the House beforehand. In all honesty, Madam Prime Minister, it is not very respectful of democracy. That's a long way from what you said six months ago. As we are no longer at the negotiating table, we do not know whether the negotiators will soon succeed and whether they will lead to an ambitious government agreement. We cannot therefore support this postponement of 15 days or more by a favourable vote and therefore the emergence of an agreement which we expect very much but which we do not know about. However, we do not want to oppose a brief extension of the current government. That is why we will abstain from voting on your government's extension. Seven parties, ladies and gentlemen, will therefore support this extension and I am addressing you. I cannot imagine for a moment that you would give your confidence to this minority government without ensuring that it would take the urgent decisions that are still needed in the context of the VOCID-19 crisis. On this point, it's all but clear. Ministers already say that urgent measures, which I hear even in the head of the seven parties, cannot be taken, the bullet being returned to the next government. This is the case, for example, of the corona parental leave which expires on September 30th. It's tomorrow. At a time when several schools and crèches have to close urgently for cases of VOCID-19, it is imperative and urgent to extend this leave in order to support families. The government doesn't want to. I have also tabled a bill. You never know, you can always hope to move forward here on the side of the House. To the parties that are taking advantage of it in the press, those parties that will support you, ma'am, tell me if you have, yes or no, obtained the commitment that this can be achieved within the next fifteen days? Similarly, it is essential – I spoke at length earlier – to review and strengthen the entire testing and tracing system, to listen much more and to support the ground and to anticipate the evolution of the epidemic, not to mention the urgent support for certain sectors that remain fully affected by the VOCID-19 crisis. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Prime Minister, the next 15 days cannot be just 15 days of empty space, 15 days of waiting, 15 days to extend simply to extend and return to a future government. Several parties in La Vivaldi are in favour of great progress in an emergency. But now, equally urgent action is needed. Not in two weeks, not in three weeks. I was again quoting the date of 30 September: this is one example among others. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to you, Madam Prime Minister, to clarify your position! What are you going to do for the next two weeks? Yes or no are you going to take urgent action, including in the next few days? To you, since this Vivaldi majority will speak today, I have only one thing to say:before!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u83	Madam Prime Minister, you just lied. You lied, Madam Prime Minister. Words in politics are important! Words are important in politics. A word is a word. You said you'd be here in six months asking for confidence again. Is trust being demanded here today? The answer is no. This is a lie and that is a problem in Belgian politics. People are sick of having politicians who just live somewhere else and don't keep their word. And as far as anger among the population is concerned, I tell you, you are always pointing at "populists, populists!", while you are the industrial production machines of discontent among the population. You're the one responsible! A little humility in politics! A little humility! I actually read that we were discussing and negotiating between seven parties. There is currently a lot about the bubble of the five but another bubble is still much more problematic. It's the bubble of the seven, in which we don't know what's going on. We have no idea what's being discussed. We don't know what's being negotiated. We don't know anything. For years, the public has known nothing about the content. What do you think of this political spectacle? Do you think it makes sense that all negotiations are just happening behind the scenes? No one knows what you're arguing about, and you think you're just gonna be able to move on in your seven-year-old bubble. I say to you: there is a people's opposition, there is an opposition of 12 Members who will pierce that bubble, because we want content. It is the content that is important! So, what's the content? We were told, "The world will never be like before." During the election campaign, the leftwing parties told us: "We will return to the pension at age 67. It was a measure of Charles Michel, which is not possible." And what? What's going on? Aren't we seeing the pension again? The deal is, right now, we keep getting people to work until they're 67 years old, when they're tired at work, when they've been working all the time, when there's young people waiting for this, to get a job. We're in the middle of an economic crisis, and we're going on until we're 67? Is that the deal? We've been talking, talking, talking, and philosophers in Belgium for 30 years. It would be time to make the capital pay. It would be time for capital to pay a little more in Belgium. Thirty years we're talking about this! In the election campaigns, no problem. The programs always say that the assets will have to pay, and what's next with Vivaldi? Almost nothing. No punitive coffee, not even a tea, possibly a profit tax. Again the middle class will have to pay. When will there finally be a capital tax? That is the question that many Belgians are asking. The community, my friends, the community, in all this crisis! Everyone told us: "Nine health ministers, we can't go on like this! Nine Ministers of Health!" What do I hear? We are negotiating to send everything to the regions. In this tiny little country with 11 million inhabitants! There we still want to send all the powers in the area of health care to the regions? What is being done in this bubble of seven? It's time to wake up, it's time to negotiate properly the points that are really important to the people. This show, which consists of a fight for small posts, has already begun: who will become Prime Minister? We're already starting to negotiate. We mix the struggle of places and the struggle of classes. I will tell you something: you will have to count with a dynamic and popular opposition, from the authentic left, in the years to come. We'll be authentic, because... I will tell the other opposition members, the separatist block, the block of hatred, Flemish Interest and N-VA, because it is also about you. According to you, the big problem is that it is not democratic because there is no majority on the Flemish side. That's what we're gonna argue for. It's a disgrace. Well, Charles Michel's government had a majority on the Flemish side. Was that okay, Flemish Interesters? Was working up to 67 years okay? Was the index jump okay? There was no democratic problem, dear N-VAs. This is all fake-pop position. The clear opposition to the economic and political elite in this country, which is in the ground with roots, to the people, will be taking place here over the next three to four years. You will have to take into account a decent opposition. We've already done it with two. Now there's 12 of us. If you do not have a decent social policy, do not introduce a capital tax, do not reduce the retirement age to 65 years and do not set the pension at EUR 1 500 net, then you will experience something in the weeks, months and years that come. I said that, and I hope there will be a reaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u84	Colleagues, Prime Minister, that's true, six months ago, you made a commitment to come and ask for confidence again. Let us agree, it is not your personal fault that there is not yet a government today! But it is the fault of the entire political class, and especially that of the major parties. It is a little easy to invoke the VOCID-19 of one of the pre-formers. Time has been wasted long before, colleagues. It was lost in the betting of a traditional minority coalition, in the mirages and desert of an unlikely Arizona coalition, in the grand agreement supposed to trade social for institutional and which, fortunately, we have escaped. Meanwhile, modestly, patiently, my DeFI party has been trying to explain, for the past year, that the only way out of the crisis will be around a rainbow coalition, a reality that we expect all the other parties to admit after trying everything else. One year that, concerned with the sense of the State and the general interest, we have tried, via Kern+10, to help ensure the continuity of the State missions in these moments of intense difficulties and vulnerability that will mark the red iron and in a lasting way our country. Indeed, this pandemic has caused as many as 10,000 victims and as many families who are mourned. Just for that, whatever its colour, yes, we need a government today. We are not going to add our voices to those of the chaos ringers. We have just experienced today a foretaste of what a part of the opposition will be. A noisy and brutal opposition, trying to use fears and anger in this time when, indeed, our fellow citizens are afraid and angry. An opposition from extremes who don't care about having a government and who even dream of elections, not out of love for democracy, reassure yourself, but out of love for themselves and for the harvest that these fears and angers could bring to them. Of course we would be happy to embody a constructive and adult opposition, but I do not hide from you that we are somewhat concerned. On October 1st, Prime Minister, is really tomorrow. If we were sure there would be a government on October 1st, there would be little problem. But when I read the press, and when I feel the mood, I tell myself that, personally, I will not believe this Vivaldi until I see her ministers take an oath before the King. What I see is not a majority. They are six parties that want to govern and a seventh one that we don't know what he wants. I don't even need to name him. We know what he doesn't want. Thus, a relaxation of the law on voluntary termination of pregnancy, which I still need to say a word about. The referral of this text to the Committee on Justice is a scandal. I am dismayed to see that this issue is now on the table for a government formation when there was a clear majority in this Parliament in favour of it. Liberal friends, socialist friends, environmental friends, have you really agreed to rewrite this text until the CD&V agrees with its terms? Do you really believe that? This is a scandal on the merits, especially for the 500 women who are forced to go to the Netherlands every year to perform an abortion. It is also a question of form, because it is a matter of rewarding the timidity that has taken place here and of considering that a text can be referred four times to the Council of State and win at the end. For that reason alone, it's a problem. I'm worried because today we don't see it clearly. No, there's no majority or project. There isn't even a captain. That's a lot to find in fifteen days. It's not impossible, but it's really time to find an accelerator. And if that proves sufficient and a new government sits on those benches on October 1 - and, once again, we do not ask better - my fear is that it will be at the price of a mild government policy statement like the wind that turns, which refers such a subject back to committee, which puts on the carpet all the themes that are annoying, with formulas to the coin that will blossom good the idea that we do not know where we are going, but that we are going to go with the light heart. As the philosopher Seneca said, "for him who does not know where he is going, there is no favorable wind." It is time, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the "Vivaldi", to find your course and to grant your violins. Indeed, it would be a shame for our country, for you, but also for society as a whole, to move too quickly from "Four Seasons" to "Four Winds".
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u85	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, I hope to be able to use the electronic sound enhancement in my speech. On 17 March, you made a statement here, and when we analyzed that government statement at the time, there was not much in it. You didn't submit a program at the time. You also said at that time that you only considered yourself competent for the matters of COVID, when it was clear that there was no need for full competence to do so. The only thing you put to the vote on 17 March is the six-month number. It was approved on 19 March. I have just quoted a few colleagues, for example the colleague who is now President of Open Vld, who literally said: 'After that' after those six months we 'judge' again. That's today. I was accused of naivety earlier. It was naivety with the hand brake anyway. After all, I expected you to understand that it was also the best thing for you to do here today what you said you would do. I assumed that you would come with a pleasant surprise today by asking whether or not you should continue. That is why we have been waiting for the agenda. Nothing turned out to be on the agenda, and in fact you are silent. Interpretations are being dealt with at the moment. That is, of course, not an alternative to what you announced at the time. Suppose, after all, that no one had submitted an interview, we would now have moved on to the order of the day. Then nothing would have happened on March 17th. So you have actually waited for others to do something, so that you might do something yourself today. That's a very strange attitude. Which brings me to the question of what motivates you. On 17 March, you presented here, in the Chamber, a government communication, a text that was prepared and which you read here, so it was not improvisation. During the debate in the following days, you repeated your announcement. What can you motivate to not ask the question of trust, despite your explicit commitment? In the search for explanations, some have insinuated that it has to do with the fact that Mr Lachaert is infected with the COVID virus. He deserves every sympathy for this and I'm glad he's getting better in the meantime. That was, of course, an argument to delay government formation for a few days. I understand. But there is no connection whatsoever with what you said on 17 March. You did not say on 17 March that if there is no government, I will ask for confidence. You didn't set that link, and then no one made that link either. See the debate that followed it. I would therefore be careful to use Mr Lachaert's very unfortunate case here as an argument for something that has nothing to do with it. Then what inspired you? I have a second possibility. You do not ask for confidence because you may still have to take important measures in the next few weeks. That also sounds credible, if it is not for you to simply go into ongoing business when you don't get your trust. What is specific to current cases? That you can take any measures that may need to be taken in the course of those 14 days to deal with any additional COOVID challenge. In short, that also sounds like a valid argument, but of course it is not. Then what is it? We cannot refer to this in the Integrated Report. I propose, Mr President, that you also give us a subscription to the various newspapers in addition to access to the Integrated Report, which appears to be important. There was a meeting somewhere in which seven bubble colleagues took part. If I am not mistaken, there were very few in this Chamber. They weren't MPs. In that strange bubble it is decided to postpone the trust question, which should actually be dealt with here, until 1 October. Is that correct, Madam Prime Minister? A newspaper is a newspaper. Sometimes things are written in there that are a little less accurate. I don't know if it's true. Can you confirm that? Can you tell me what's special about that October 1? Why not October 3rd? Why not October 15th? Or wait until 1 October to say: now I ask for another week, and then three and a half days? And then a few more dozen hours? Or will you next time if the government is not formed in time there were signals from CD&V ranks today that it's not all easy to ignore us again? Will you then postpone the question again and remain a fully-fledged government supported by 38 out of 150 members? You could have raised these 38 seats, as you did on 19 March, pour les besoins de la cause, to a majority in exceptional circumstances. You did that then, and you got that majority. Are you afraid you won't get them anymore? That could be the explanation. Could it be that you think that the parties that supported you then no longer do so today? Could the explanation be that you are not sleeping on both ears about the result of fulfilling your commitment? That is what we are talking about, in keeping with your commitment. That's what scares you today. Instead of confronting the hemisphere, you dive behind seven people who are not even in the Chamber. After all, you are not afraid of the N-VA, you are afraid of the PS. There are those you are afraid of, because you did not get our support last time. We thought that was unnecessary and you would not get our support this time either, but you could of course count on your friends from the PS. You think, in the great power struggle between Mr Magnette and yourself, for whom Vivaldi's boat will be allowed to sail on the cliffs, that it is a very bad time to resign now. However, on 31 August, in an interview with De Standaard, you said that this is a possibility that may not yet be so crazy. However, the PS has also said that it will not give you a vote of confidence in which it will support you once again. The P.S. isn't gonna be part of that. This means that today the first Vivaldi agreement is being expressed, namely the agreement not to be agreed and not to let Parliament know. That is the essence of what has happened today. Madam Prime Minister, nothing is lost before it is lost. It ain't about until the fat lady sings and no one will claim that you are meant by that. You're a slim appearance, and I can't say that about myself, so the metaphor doesn't suit you, but the idea does. You still have time. You will be able to answer later that you will honour your commitment of 17 March. That is a question of parliamentary decency. You can state: 'I reread the text I said on 17 and 19 March and I ask for confidence'. If you don't get it from the PS, you're just gonna move on to ongoing cases. You have experience of this and you know that it can last for a very long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Prime Minister, even after 20 years of drifting around this House of distrust, I am still amazed at how it can be transformed into a lie palace. I am not only surprised because our directors are lying, but above all because of the way in which the debate was smothered this afternoon. It was hallucinating and Parliament was unworthy. Mr President, I shall come back to it later on and play along with the government in order to kill the parliamentary debate. In fact, only two things could have been proposed here today: the declaration of government, the State of the Union, a tradition at the beginning of the parliamentary year, and a motion of confidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u87	That statement will be made on the second Tuesday of October.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u88	Mr President, in the past Parliament always started on the second Tuesday of October. We have changed that somewhat out of honest shame towards the people, to indicate that we are also working.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u89	Fortunately, Mr Dedecker, we start plenary meetings early, but that does not mean that the State of the Union always takes place on the second Tuesday of October. That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u90	All right, Mr President. Madam Prime Minister, today you could ask for the confidence for the continuation of your present blue leopard government. With 38 out of 150 seats, it is difficult to call your government a fully-fledged government. On 17 March 2020, exactly six months ago, you made the firmest promise to appear in the hemisphere today to ask for the confidence of the representatives of the people once again. Madam Prime Minister, I know by now that words in politics are as volatile and as toxic as novichok, but what is happening here today is yet another rape of our democratic system. The others are also accused of being populists. Your governing team was the first minority government in 190 years to gain the trust not only of Parliament, but also of special powers of attorney and also of attorney, provided that it would only last six months. You gained the confidence of Flemish parties who at that time, all of them, did not enjoy the trust of the people anymore. They were all voted down in the elections of 19 May 2019, but until today, against the will of the electorate, they remain cramped in power. It concerns those parties which in the current opinion polls barely reach double the electoral threshold, from Green to Open Vld, CD&V and sp.a. Their presidents, from mateke Rousseau to Meyrem Almaci, said that elections would take place if there were no new government by today, September 17, but the lie is more important than the will of the people. The only line in this coalition of losers is the fear of the election. You are afraid, Madam Prime Minister, to be judged here today. You were given powers to fight the corona crisis. That was the condition. However, you abused that crisis to keep a minority government in the saddle. I can reassure you, Madam Prime Minister. In the assessment you have completely failed. With 10,000 deaths, we are world record holder in the COVID-19 statistics. Our old folks in the residential care centers are decimated. Whether it was about mouth masks, test kits, contact tracing or reporting to the population, it was always a mess. Even your press conferences were never with power and never to the point. The measures that have been adopted have been indicative of your government of error. The results of the confusing comedy of regulation were a police state where the policemen themselves had to interpret the rules and a tired population, who meanwhile lost all hope and now celebrates the reins. Your economic policy, with measures such as technical unemployment and nuisance premiums, was initially encouraging, but in the meantime we have slipped to the level of countries with the greatest economic downturn, such as Spain and Italy. I wouldn't dare ask for confidence in that policy, Madam Prime Minister. Before the corona crisis, the budget deficit was 11 times larger than your remaining government promised when it took office in 2014. After all, you already took office at that time. The gap in our budget is gradually increasing to EUR 50 billion, or 12% of our GDP. Public debt rises by 507 euros per second, or almost 44 million euros per day. If you sing it out for another 14 days and then start playing Vivaldi's mourning waltz, another 613 million euros will be added. You were also held hostage by a fickle Parliament in quarantine, which managed to order EUR 2 billion of new expenditure, without any kind of budgetary cover. The only certainty is that the Flemings will again pay for your mischief. Indeed, they account for 82% of Belgian imports and exports and pay more than 70% of all taxes in this country. Finally, Mr President, I would like to address you. You were the cunning, crafty architect of this anti-Flemish coalition. You're supposed to be a neutral president. I expected you to keep your word and defend Parliament's rights in order to provoke a vote of confidence instead of setting up the next anti-Flemish Vivialdi government, but you are rather the puppeteer protecting the government and embarrassing Parliament. Mrs Wilmès, you are afraid to ask for confidence here, because you have betrayed our trust. You'd rather be used as a hand puppet to build a new coalition of losers. The only solution for this country is new elections, but for that you are all too afraid of the electorate and too attached to power.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u91	I have so much respect for Parliament, Mr Dedecker, that I even let you go 2.5 minutes over your time, but tell your speech writer next time. Mr Piedboeuf has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u92	Mr President, I am not going to force the staff to go and disinfect the gallery again, which is a sign that we are still in a difficult situation. All managers know that when things are difficult or complicated, solutions are sometimes in simplicity. What is the current situation? The situation is difficult because of the VOCID, but we also have a full-fledged government that is supported by a democratic majority – in comparison to all the comments I hear – and that has so far made all the decisions that needed to be made with the help of advisors, advice and prudence. Not everyone is always satisfied but, in any case, the government has managed the situation. We believe that it is necessary for this government to continue its work for a limited period of time because the situation is indeed difficult. And when I say "we," it's a majority of parliamentarians. We ask the government – a majority will do so – to continue its work, in particular to ensure the decisions to be taken next week, to ensure the legality of the decisions that need to be taken and to avoid challenges to the decisions that could be taken. We ask that the government continue its work. When I hear some say that democracy is being undermined, etc., I regret to say that this is exactly what we are going to discuss now. A motion of distrust has been tabled. And I, on behalf of this majority of 87 parliamentarians, will table a simple motion signed by the group leaders of this majority. This majority does indeed want it to be for a limited time. That is why I will also table a point of order, supported by the same parties, on October 1, 2020, which calls for the government's statement to be placed on the agenda. We therefore have, in the face of the laughers and those who denounce the circus while they do, the will to allow the present full-fledged government to continue its work and we have the will to reach a conclusion within the framework of the negotiations that are under way. Mr. Chairman, when the Prime Minister answers, I will table with you, with an urgent request, the pure and simple motion that we are going to introduce collectively to seven parties. Earlier, I will table a point of order signed by the seven parties. I have nothing else to add, because I have heard so many donkeys today that there is no need to answer them and add them in addition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u93	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after voting in May 2019, the Belgians want a federal government, a government of full exercise, with a real majority, a government of projects and solutions. Seven parties, including Ecolo and Groen, decided to set themselves up around the same table and build such a project. A project that puts our country back on track after the coronavirus, and modernises it; a project that chooses the path of investment in the economy of tomorrow, and will allow it to redeploy; a project that ensures solidarity, an effective solidarity among all Belgians, and especially with regard to the most fragile, here or there; a project that takes on board the climate and energy challenges; all in close collaboration with the other political entities of this country, the federated entities and also at international level, particularly European. I know, and I see, that this perspective is disturbing. It disturbs those who feed on the rejection of the other, who maintain the conflict, who plead for the withdrawal on themselves, who manipulate caricature; all those grinchios who think that one can govern without concern for future generations, nor what is happening elsewhere in the world, nor for global warming. These seven parties are not yet at the end of the road. I'm sorry. But they're moving! Hey, yeah, it takes a little time to form a government. Those who negotiated for fourteen months before we were invited to the table will not contradict me. It takes a little time, especially when VOCID-19 gets involved. There is no reason for the political world to be less affected by the pandemic than economic life, social life, cultural life, all our fellow citizens and all our fellow citizens. Madam Prime Minister, six months ago, you will not deny it, and no one can, since it appears in the Parliamentary Annals, you would declare here that you would ask for confidence for your government within six months. And I know that you would have done so if seven parties, including Ecolo and Groen, had not specifically asked you to extend by two weeks the interim mission that you accepted in March to deal with this coronavirus crisis, support those who are on the front line and help our fellow victims of the pandemic. This Parliament will be able to give its opinion, democratically, in a few minutes, on this request for an extension, which I formally confirm to you in this rostrum on behalf of my group. Of course, we ask you to work in concert and strict respect for day-to-day affairs until 1 October, when a formal government agreement can be presented and debated before the same assembly, when we can meet the legitimate and impatient expectations of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, criticism is easy, art is difficult, as we know. Since the beginning of this rare health crisis, we have assumed the fact that, in order to be able to overcome such a test, there is an inevitable prerequisite: to have institutions in order to walk. Parliament has not stopped working; it has even worked a lot. How can we imagine, in the face of a crisis of this nature, that we will be able to live up to it in the absence of a full-fledged government? That is what justified, a few months ago, confidence – limited in time – but also the granting of special powers. It's not nothing. We did it, because we knew that the hours we were going to face were going to be particularly dark and difficult. The facts are there, alas, to give us reason. Today, where are we? If I have understood some correctly, there should be a minority government in day-to-day affairs through various manoeuvres, when we have not emerged from the health crisis, when the pandemic is experiencing a revival, and when vital emergencies arise that we need to respond to. This choice, we do not. This does not mean, however, that we are not in a sustainable approach. That is why I want to welcome the fact that seven political parties have decided, collectively adhering to all democratic values, to give our country a future through the formation of a full-fledged government with a large majority in this Parliament. I would like to welcome not only this shared will, but also the ambition to achieve it as soon as possible, despite the difficulties. For we are lucid, and we are aware that there are indeed difficulties when it comes to forming a coalition government. We have nothing to hide. Yeah, it's complicated. However, the ambition to achieve it as quickly as possible is indeed there. As Mr Piedboeuf pointed out, a course had been set for 1 October and the representatives of the various democratic political groups were at work to achieve that. It is in this spirit that we believe that, in order to meet vital challenges, we must continue to support a full-fledged government for a very limited period of time, pending the formation of a government that will define a course and a future for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u95	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today is almost three years since this Parliament voted a budget. Today it is almost two years since there is a government that is factual and has full power over all its powers. You have full authority, Madam Prime Minister, because you have been given the confidence of nine political groups. But you said yourself that you would stand outside the corona powers as a government in current affairs, and you also kept your word. Colleagues, we are almost 15 months after the elections and we have still not been able to form a fully-fledged government. Does it have to be surprised that people are losing faith in politics? We can all point the finger at each other, but that doesn't send a message to people. People want solutions. People want a government. From the very beginning, from the first day after the elections, CD&V said that we preferred a government with the two largest formations in each part of the country because it was our conviction and is that this would be good for political stability and it would also be good for cooperation with the state governments. Good cooperation between a federal government and regional governments is essential. People wish that. But if different initiatives have been taken and they do not succeed, then other options can and must be considered, unless one chooses the impasse and allows it to continue, unless one chooses not to address the challenges when families and businesses are suffering from the greatest health and economic crisis we have experienced in decades. That's a choice. But that's not our choice. We want solutions to be found. We want a government to meet the challenges. At the moment, we are sitting at the table with seven parties. Seven different views that need to be compromised. They have to prove that politics is the art of the feasible. An agreement is only possible if there is trust and respect. Trust and respect are not just announced. That needs to grow, as with any government negotiation. This can only grow if everyone's concerns around the table are taken into account. The colleagues are aware of our concerns. Many of them are similar, others may be contradictory. We want permanent strong health care, with even more attention to mental well-being. We want more purchasing power for families and especially for those who are currently struggling because of the corona crisis. We want attention to be paid to the entrepreneurs, and especially to the sectors most affected by this crisis. We want more investment in justice and security. We want fair taxation. We want our country to show its heart at times, such as now, on asylum and migration, but sometimes we will also have to be strict, respectfully permanent. We want consensus on ethical issues. We want a strong Flanders, but also a strong Belgium, because both need the people. The negotiations have certainly not yet been concluded, but it is our will and our ambition to make them work with respect for each other. We know that the Prime Minister had committed herself to asking for confidence, even though she did not need it constitutionally. However, many colleagues have forgotten that the Prime Minister has repeatedly asked us to form a government with a parliamentary majority with a positive project for this country. Colleagues, I have heard and read great words that are characteristic of the present spirit of time. I would like to put these words into perspective because it is my belief that some parties who are not at the negotiating table would have spoken differently if they were at the negotiating table. It must be the ambition to have a government very shortly, as we know that the current government is acting as a government in current affairs outside the corona powers. We don't want an impasse. The citizens want solutions. The citizens want a government. We have tried their patience long enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I am pleased that peace and calm have returned to this debate. There must be a strong debate with word and reply. It's our own house. However, do so in a dignified manner over the next three to four years, please. Mr De Roover, don't let the Flemish Interest rush you. One can never become more extreme than the far right. In March, a large majority gave confidence to a minority Wilmès government. The Prime Minister here promised to ask for confidence again after six months. The intention was to have a majority government at the start of the parliamentary year. Honesty commands us to say that in the last six months several attempts have been made to make that happen. At the beginning of this month, that finally led to a breakthrough. After 480 days, someone finally managed to get parties around the table. Seven parties were given a negotiating table and they are having substantive talks to form a government and put an end to the standstill. The intention was to land on September 17, so today. However, a corona contamination in the negotiating team has unexpectedly thrown soot into the food. That forced us to delay. As one says in French, à l'impossible zero est tenu, no one can do the impossible. There are two options for the current government. The first option is that she stays in the saddle for 14 days. The second option is for her to resign. I address myself very explicitly to the intervening parties. What do you want? A government without full authority at a time when the corona virus is spreading rapidly again? Current cases in the worst health crisis since World War II? Is that what you want? It is our opinion and our view, as well as the intention in March this year, that in this crisis there should be a government that is still in full control, even for the period that remains. Apart from all this, one thing is clear to me: Parliament will henceforth be composed of two groups. There are those who are a fan of ongoing business, who want to keep blocking things, who want to keep things going for months, and that is what is showing us, honestly, no future for our country anymore. They are now united in a front, the front of the blockade. However, there are also other parties, parties that want to bouger, who want to make the country work again, want to give people perspective again, parties that want to reform the country to make it ready for the future. That's the coalition of progress. That is why we shall support the simple motion of urgency and the motion of order, so that the negotiators can have every opportunity to complete the work, to finally give the country a government that it deserves. That government will then be able to work on the long way to restore confidence in politics and sustainably reform the country towards 2030.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u97	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is 21 months since our country had a full government, 21 months of political stagnation. The elections are long behind us. I'm ashamed it took so long. Politics should be ashamed that it has taken so long, not to form a government, but to sit at the table at all to talk about its content. If even the corona crisis could not lead to a breakthrough, where are we as a country? If we need young faces to get politicians with experience at the table, where are we as a country? If everyone is above themselves, except for politics, where are we as a country? Ladies and gentlemen, today we are finally seeing a political agreement. Finally, after so many months, parties sit together at the table to work on a future project. It's about time. Big words have already been used enough: the deepest crisis since decades since the Second World War. I'm tired of those words. It's time to do something. It is time for politics to take on its responsibilities. It is time to guide our country through this crisis. Colleagues, the deadline was not for nothing. It was a clear line for the next step. Here we are now, for the next step. Corona turned our lives upside down. Even the government negotiations were not spared, but we want to move forward with this country. That's why there's a new deadline, which is October 1st. We won't play games. We give the negotiators every opportunity, because it is the first chance of a real government. Some in this House still choose to play a game. Some think headlines are much more important than a new government, but we are going for progress and not for standstill. We take the chance of a solution. We don't choose the standstill. We're not yelling at the sidelines. We are going for a new government, not for so many months nothing. This Parliament must move forward. This country has to move forward. And you can. This can be done by investing in health care and social protection. This can be done by investing in the economy and a sustainable future. This can be done by investing in safety. That's what we're going for.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u98	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your interventions, which illustrate the unique nature of the current political situation in our country. In recent months, all our assurances have been put to the test. There were a lot of questions and problems. We have had to make many difficult decisions. In fact, they touched on the freedoms to which we are all attached. Unfortunately, too many lives have been lost. The virus was extremely ruthless. Our thoughts therefore go out to all the people who have left life and to their neighbors. However, there was also incredible solidarity in our country. We could count on the professionalism and commitment of those who have continued to work at the worst times of the crisis to provide others with the necessary care or to keep our country running. They're still standing by today. Once again, I would like to take advantage of this plenary to let them know how incredibly grateful we are for that. As some of you reminded us last March 17 before this House, I was committed to faithfully exercising the trust given in the fight against coronavirus. I also undertook to ask for Parliament's confidence again within a maximum of six months. Thus, it has always been clear to me not only that this government should work within the strict limits of the trust given to it, but also that we must also respect the 17 September appointment clause with Parliament, which is done. We have a debate today. This government remains at the disposal of Parliament. It has always been and continues to be. On 31 August, an inquiry was addressed to me: the Conference of Presidents agreed to place the inquiry on the agenda of this plenary meeting, which coincides with that date of 17 September. This government is therefore still in line with the pattern that the House itself has decided. The government is now, as planned, present in plenary. With respect for the health rules, we are holding a democratic debate whose outcome can only be determined by this Parliament. This is not a pretext. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, you will decide today, as you always can, at the end of this debate on the conditions under which this government can still work. For three months, until 30 June, the talks between the government and the ten democratic parties supporting the power of attorneys enabled us to address the urgency of the COOVID-19 crisis and control its consequences. We have worked intelligently, efficiently and coordinatedly to take urgent measures in the social, health, public order and the protection of the economy and families. Although this cooperation is not without precedent, it was exceptional and I would like to thank everyone involved. The 47 royal proxy decisions taken in this context, as provided for in the mechanism laid down in the Law of 27 March 2020, will be submitted for ratification to the Chamber of Representatives. We have also been able to work closely with the governments of the Länder in their respective powers, despite the institutional complexity of our country, to manage the crisis as effectively as possible. I would like to take this opportunity to express once again my appreciation for the teamwork of my fellow Prime Ministers at the various meetings of the Consultation Committee and the National Security Council. We all share the idea that our country must develop today in order to meet the socio-economic challenges. To carry out an ambitious forward-looking project, we need a federal team with a solid and stable majority. That's what I've said here several times. The context in which we are is special. As provided for in the Constitution, a royal mission is under way to form a full-fledged government with a majority in it this time. The work is progressing, but at this stage it has not been completed. Here too, the VOCID-19 has changed the schedule of negotiations. At the same time, the demands of crisis management still require decisions. Indeed, since the beginning of the summer, all of Europe has experienced an epidemiological rebound that all countries are trying to grasp at best to protect lives, while preserving social relations and economic dynamism. On the basis of the latest data provided by Sciensano, we see that in Belgium too, the situation must be taken seriously. If we do not have to give in to panic, we must nevertheless continue to act accordingly. Important decisions will have to be taken within the framework of the next National Security Council. It will take place on September 23rd. We have been working with specialists from many disciplines for several weeks, listening to the expectations of our fellow citizens as well as the various sectors. We know that, as we discussed earlier, the balances will be very difficult to find. Today, as part of the debate, I hear that we have a parliamentary majority calling for the specific full-function regime in which the government is currently working to be extended until 1 October, in order to ensure a certain and necessary stability. Given this will, the whole government will continue to work loyally, with demand and conviction in this framework and in the continuity of the trust you gave us on March 19. I hope that a positive dynamic driven by the desire to work in the general interest will be realized in a majority government quickly. The country needs it. Our fellow citizens need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u100	Mrs Pas has the floor first.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u101	Madam Prime Minister, you are not explaining why you are not asking for trust in your government today. You say you want to continue your work. Then ask for the trust! I hear Mr Van Quickenborne say: we must move forward. He's making a false comparison, like we're the ones who want to block and like we're the ones who want to do business. If you don't want ongoing cases, let her ask for trust and give her the confidence. Why don't you dare today? Why do we have to put forward a motion of censure today so that the Prime Minister can honour her commitment, as she stated on 17 March? It's about democracy today. The two largest parties in the country are not at the table, even though they together have three times as many votes as the largest party that is at the table. You know the numbers. You know that the Flemings account for 60% of the population in this country. You also know that we do not hold 60% of the board. With that purple construction coming up, that's not even half of it and not even half of it. Madam Prime Minister, you only had two options today. I have just outlined them: asking for confidence in this Parliament or resigning. You're afraid to do it today. You didn't do it. Therefore, you lack any kind of decency, any democratic feeling. You're not alone in that. That is also the case for windhopper Lachaert and for the asterisk of Vooruit, mateke Rousseau. In Belgium, coronaspuwers are rightly tackled, but those who spit on democracy are rewarded. For the Flemish Interest, a word is a word. Your commitment must be met. We have to vote on confidence in this House today. We shall therefore table a motion of censure, Mr President. It's up to the colleagues to choose. Either they want to look at themselves in the mirror and rely on the tough statements and promises made by their own party and take that promise seriously that if there is no government in mid-September and one continues to muddle, one must go back to the electorate. In that case, they support our motion of censure. Either they have as little decency as their party chairmen and make themselves redundant by slavishly following their orders. However, if you move on to the order of the day and later support a simple motion, know that Vivaldi or Avanti governments such as those in the scaffolding are not positive projects, but rather left-wing, belgic tax projects that go straight against the voter's signal. Hold on to your breaks, you'll get the bill presented. Take it from me that it will not be paid by your French-speaking clients, because that is a custom they do not have in this country. Mr President, I give you our motion of censure.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u102	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the citizens are full of politics, of these little games of "politiciaille", of the lack of efficiency of politics in general, of its slowness, of those who refer the ball from one level of power to the other. Too often, I'm ashamed, ashamed of politics. I fear that today's plenary session will change nothing. In essence, whether you're in day-to-day business or there's an extension of a minority government, but it's just a routine business, it doesn't change much. The negotiations have been going on for 16 months and have not yet landed. Now you promise us a government for October 1st. We'll see about it. But it is not in the form of this unique meeting with a government that we hope will be ambitious for all Belgians, but in the form of an immediate meeting that we expect you to meet. This concerns you, Madam Prime Minister, and it also concerns the seven parties that have decided to support you. Instead of major speeches and announcements, we will see whether, in the coming days, urgent actions will be taken to regain control of the epidemic. I have said enough: you are still and still behind schedule with a lack of anticipation as we experienced last February, with a flagrant lack of support and listening to caregivers, with the impression again and again that the measures that could have been taken in a stronger and more effective way drag, which we are thinking about. Meanwhile, the VOCID does not wait. I hope that, in the coming days, measures must be taken that are absolutely necessary for those who suffer the consequences of the epidemic. I have cited an example on which none of you, none of the parties of the Vivaldi coalition responded: the families! Families whose children are in crèche, at school, schools that yesterday, today and tomorrow – let's not be naive – will have to close because of the epidemic. As of September 30, there is no more corona parental leave for these parents! This is very concrete, but it is obviously and indeed what the citizens expect of us, and therefore of you! No answer! Perhaps you will – one can always hope for the families concerned – answer it in the following minutes, but in the absence of an answer, I hope that, despite everything, you will think about it three times and that acts will be taken before 30 September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u103	Prime Minister, I have to tell you that I was quite disappointed with your answer. I asked you about this question: should we not ask for confidence again? You made that commitment. We didn't get an answer. You did not answer what you were going to do in the next two to three weeks. We can see that an agreement was reached in this bubble of the seven behind the curtains. We have not heard anything in Parliament. That is a disappointing answer. I will make it clear how we see the coming weeks; I understand that there is a whole dynamic around the Vivaldi coalition. I want to warn the parties that claim to be from the left. I hear what is happening in the current negotiations. We have a left position and a right position, and we neutralize them in an extreme center agreement. In Belgium, it's always like that. What is the extreme center? It is this global European policy, a great current that goes in the same direction. We're going to make work more flexible, we're not going to touch capital. If we touch something, it's kind of middle class. We will look again at how people can work longer, not until 67, 68 or 69 years old, but this time we will play with the bridge pension. This whole centrist soup is really just the liberal spirit of Europe. That is what is happening in the Vivaldi negotiations. That's not good for the left. It is obvious that we will not be able to move forward with this. We need a clear left-wing and social policy. That is the signal we want to give. We will table a motion of censure, Madam Prime Minister. In our home, motions of distrust are written in both languages! Why would they only be written in Dutch? This is happening in Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia. I'm transmitting the motion to you in both languages, Mr. Chairman. This will prevent you from having to translate them. That displeasure is in the three parts of the country, not just a part of the country. That's obvious. There's distrust. Give people back the lust in politics. This requires a qualitative break-up. We don't want that centrist soup again. That's where the big problem lies. We said it wouldn't be the same after corona. Is there one proposal on Vivaldi's table that will not be the same anymore? It's gonna be another mix-up, like we've been doing in our country for 30 years. Look at what's happening in France, Belgium and Germany. All these countries have the same centrist policy of Europe. Come on, that's not how we're gonna get there. Dare to color outside the lines and preferably still in red.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u104	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I confess to you that I am always so puzzled about the cohesion of this emerging coalition. I am still equally concerned about your ability to provide us with a fresh and free government from October 1st, but we are just asking to see. Unfortunately, you have not removed all my concerns, but our political position is clear: it is out of the question for us to bring our voices to a motion of distrust tabled by extremist parties when, whether we like it or not, we are still facing a serious pandemic crisis. Any democrat, whatever he may be, should want a government, whatever its colour, and any team trying to overcome its own differences must be given a full chance to move forward. For this reason, we will be meeting you on 1 October. We do not yet know who the captain will be and what the team will be, but we will, in any case, be standing firm, leading a calm, democratic and constructive opposition.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, we have had a debate here that has surprised me somewhat. It was about what was not on the agenda. It was already a kind of debate about Vivaldi. The question on the agenda was whether Mrs Wilmès would honour the government's formal commitment. In order to hide it, we have used an old technique not to go into the debate, many fine words, such as ahead. Mr Van Quickenborne has already placed himself somewhat in the Vooruitsterij. "We want solutions." You know the fine words, but of course hollow ones, which did not answer the question of why the commitment is not being respected. That was the point. We should have given an answer to that. That's not the answer. I very much respect Mr Van Quickenborne, he knows that, but I would like to say to him that liberalism and disrespect for respectful parliamentary democratic rules do not belong together. That is what he should be considering in the group. It was also said here that no games should be played. At the same time we got a bizarre story here: we don't vote on trust, but put a new deadline first. I think a deadline is a one-time thing, by the way. One cannot move a new deadline forward. With six groups, and seven signatures, because one group has been split in the last few hours, we have done what the Prime Minister has not done and for a bizarre reason we have not received any answer to this........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ How long have you sat together to scrape that deep over the bottom of the trickbox? This certainly applies to those who say they do not want to play games. In any case this is of course a preview of what may have been a Vivaldi exercise. You've been practicing today. You have found a solution which, on the one hand, allows us to say that the government has been given it for 14 days and, on the other hand, has not confirmed confidence in the government. In short, any explanation of this text will be correct for the electorate. I think that Vivaldi will perform this song very often, especially something that will be explained by everyone on the one hand and on the other. We won't play in that game. We have asked for a yes or no. Besides, there's a false link. I'll finish with one word to the Prime Minister. Madam Prime Minister, you have missed the opportunity to fulfil your commitment. I understand that's the problem I've raised. However, this is a form of far-reaching masochism. You are aware that, until the end of your political days, you will be asked what the package leaflet is, how your words should be interpreted and how big the bag of salt we need to shake.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u106	Mr President, the purpose of this debate was to find out why the Prime Minister did not keep her word, which she gave on 17 March 2020, to come here today to explain. I didn't hear that explanation. I wasn't expecting that explanation either. All I've heard is that the coulisse talks about Vivaldi are in advanced condition and that it takes 14 more days to distribute the mail. The debate was primarily about credibility. Credibility comes on foot and disappears on horseback. Colleagues, as far as our profession and the credibility of politicians are concerned, according to a recent Gallup survey, only 17% of the population still trust us. If even Prime Ministers do not keep their word, then you can imagine what kind of response that has to do with the people. Mr Hedebouw has already used this word during his first interplay. I'll use my father's words about something like that. My father always said, "He who doesn't keep his word is a liar." I know those words sound harsh, but the words for the new cabinet will be equally harsh. Who's gonna believe these people anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u107	Mr President, everything has been said in my speech in the rostrum. Now, let's move on!
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u108	Mr President, I will be very brief. I would just like to say to Mrs Fonck that she may not have had time to consult next week's committee agenda, but that a bill tabled by the PS Group is aimed precisely at extending and improving the coronary leave for parents with a family member affected by the virus. I simply invite you to look at the agenda and I count on your support, Mrs Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u109	At the end of this discussion, further motions were tabled. In conclusion to this discussion, the following motions were tabled. A simple motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne and Mrs Meryame Kitrir, which reads as follows: "The Chamber, President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). and the Prime Minister's reply, - proceed to the order of the day; - requests urgency for the examination of this motion in accordance with Articles 140, 6.2 and 51, 1 of the Rules of Procedure." A simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Benoît Piedboeuf, Georges Gilkinet, Kristof Calvo, Ahmed Laaouej, Servais Verherstraeten and Vincent Van Quickenborne and Ms. Meryame Kitir are worded as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Peter De Roover and the Prime Minister's response, - proceed to the agenda; - requests urgency in the handling of this motion pursuant to Rules 140, 6.2 and 51, 1 of the Rules of the House." A motion of censure was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). and the Prime Minister's reply, - whereas six months ago, at the outbreak of the COVID-19 crisis, the Prime Minister in Parliament asked the House for its confidence to be able to continue the policy of the minority government; - whereas the Prime Minister stated in plenary session of the Chamber on 17 March 2020: "In addition, I will ask for Parliament's confidence again in six months' time at the latest. As a result, we will not go beyond the framework of current affairs for the issues outside this crisis. In the long term, the intention must remain to form a federal government with a parliamentary majority in favour of a global and positive project for our country.'; - whereas six months later, on 17 September 2020, there is no new federal government; - having regard to the Prime Minister's statement, also in plenary session of the Chamber on 17 March 2020: "Between Parliament and the government, a strong link must be established based on mutual trust.'; - having regard to the fact that the Prime Minister gave her the floor by refusing to seek Parliament's confidence again on 17 September 2020, thereby violating the necessary trust between Parliament and government; - whereas the present government is only a minority government with no democratic support; Takes away the trust of the government." A motion of distrust was tabled by Ms. Barbara Pas and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Peter De Roover and the Prime Minister's response, - Considering that six months ago, during the outbreak of the crisis of the VOCID-19, the Prime Minister asked Parliament for the confidence of the House in order to be able to pursue the policy of the minority government; - Considering that the Prime Minister declared on 17 March 2020 in the plenary session of the House: "In addition, I will again ask for the confidence of Parliament within six months at the latest. Thus, we will not go beyond the scope of day-to-day business for subjects outside of this crisis. Our goal must remain the eventual formation of a federal government with a parliamentary majority in order to develop a comprehensive and positive project for our country."; - Considering that six months later, on 17 September 2020, a new federal government has not yet been formed; - as the Prime Minister declared, also on 17 March 2020 in the plenary session of the House: "The relationship between Parliament and the government must be strong and forged in mutual trust."; - Considering that by not asking for Parliament's confidence again on 17 September 2020, the Prime Minister did not keep the floor and that, in doing so, she had therefore herself breached the necessary trust between Parliament and the government; - Whereas the present government is only a minority government which lacks a democratic foundation in that country; withdraws trust in the government." A motion of censure was tabled by Mr Peter Mertens and Mr Raoul Hedebouw and reads as follows: "The Chamber, President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). and the Prime Minister's reply, - notes that the Prime Minister lied when she formally stated here on 17 March 2020: "I will ask Parliament's confidence again in six months' time at the latest.'; - whereas that six-month period expires on 17 September, but the Prime Minister, who denies her word, is not asking for confidence today and postponing that request until later; - heard the growing anger of the population over the inadequate measures taken by the government to protect the population both in the health and social fields; - deplores the disastrous approach taken by members of the government to the COVID-19 crisis, including Minister of Health Maggie De Block; - convinced that the shortcomings in dealing with the crisis are due inter alia to the savings policies of these and previous governments, also led by Mrs Wilmès as Minister for the Budget; - notes that the government has not effectively forced companies to take sufficient measures to protect workers in the workplace, as demonstrated by the recent legitimate strike of AB Inbev staff; asks the government to resign." A motion of distrust was tabled by Messrs. Peter Mertens and Raoul Hedebouw and read as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Peter De Roover and the Prime Minister's response, - noting that the Prime Minister lied by formally declaring here on 17 March 2020: "Within six months at the latest, I will again ask for the confidence of this Parliament."; - since this six-month deadline expires on 17 September, but, denying her word, the Prime Minister does not ask for confidence today, delaying this request to a later date; - hearing the growing anger of the population with regard to insufficient measures taken by the government to protect the population from both a health and a social point of view; - regretting the catastrophic management of the VOCID-19 crisis by members of the government, including the Minister of Health Maggie De Block; - considering that the shortcomings in dealing with the crisis stem in particular from the austerity policies carried out by this government and the previous ones, including under the impetus of Mrs Wilmès as Minister of Budget; - stressing that the government has not really forced companies to take sufficient measures to protect workers in their workplace, as the recent legitimate strike of AB Inbev's staff still shows; demands the resignation of the government." A motion of censure was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "The Chamber, President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (ChristianDemocratic Group). and the Prime Minister's reply, establishing that: - the present government parties represent only 38 out of 150 seats in the Chamber of Representatives; - Prime Minister Wilmès said on 17 March 2020: "In addition, in six months' time at the latest, I will ask for Parliament's confidence again. As a result, we will not go beyond the framework of current affairs for the issues outside this crisis. In the long term, the intention must remain to form a federal government with a parliamentary majority in favour of a global and positive project for our country." (CRIV 55 PLEN 029, 5); - Prime Minister Wilmès again on 19 March 2020 stressed that she would ask for confidence again in September, in the following words: "De plus, je reviendrai au plustard dans six mois pour reedmander votre confiance." (CRIV 55 PLEN 030, 35); - the current government thus gained confidence and the commitment took place at the latest after six months to re-examine the question of confidence; - a government may, in current cases, take all urgent measures, including those necessary to combat the corona crisis; The federal government takes away the trust." A motion of distrust was tabled by Mr. Peter De Roover and reads as follows: "The Chamber, having heard the inquiries of Mrs Barbara Pas and Mr Peter De Roover and the Prime Minister's response, Noting that: - the parties of the present government represent only 38 of the 150 seats in the House of Representatives; - on 17 March 2020, Prime Minister Wilmès said: "In addition, I will be asking for Parliament's confidence no later than six months from now. Thus, we will not go beyond the scope of day-to-day business for subjects outside of this crisis. Our goal must remain the eventual formation of a federal government with a parliamentary majority in order to develop a comprehensive and positive project for our country." (CRIV 55 PLEN 029, 5); - on 19 March 2020, the Prime Minister, Mrs Wilmès, again stressed that she would ask for confidence again in September, in the following words: "In addition, I will come back not later than six months to ask for your confidence again." (CRIV 55 PLEN 030, 35); - the current government has thus gained confidence and made a commitment to re-claim trust no later than six months; - where appropriate, a government in charge of day-to-day affairs may take all urgent measures, including those necessary to combat the coronavirus crisis; withdraws his confidence in the government." The motions will be voted on later. The meeting's over. The vote on the motions will take place at a later date. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u110	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Barbara Pas, Ortwin Depoostere, Dries Van Langenhove, Frank Toventors, Tom Van Grieken, Hans Verreyt. The Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this bill. (437/3) The Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs proposes to reject this bill. (437/3) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. Mr Metsu, rapporteur, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law amending the laws of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters as regards monitoring the implementation of these laws is now before us. As the chairman said, this proposal has already been discussed in committee, which I will not repeat, but I would like to summarize briefly. Everyone knows that anyone who joins the Brussels local government must have the knowledge of both national languages, except skilled workers who do not come into contact with the public. In order to prove their knowledge of the second language of the country, the candidates must take a test with Selor. The Deputy Governor shall be responsible for the control and supervision of the provisions in force and in the event of a breach of the provisions he may suspend. After a suspension, there are two possibilities: either the municipality withdraws the suspended decision or, if the municipality does not, the decision must be destroyed by the local custody authority. With regard to the Brussels municipalities, custody falls under the responsibility of the Minister of the Brussels Government, with regard to the OMCWs, under two members of the Joint Community Committee. The problem is, if the destruction by the supervisory authorities does not occur within certain time limits, that there is an illegal recruitment situation, while the persons concerned are allowed to remain at work. That, of course, opens the door to abuses, despite the fact that the Council of State ordered the destruction. The bill contains a lot of figures, all of which were discussed, but I am now limiting myself to the figures of 2019, the latest figures. In the municipalities 70% of the appointments were illegal and in the OCMWs it is much worse, because 89 percent of the appointments were illegal. These figures illustrate what we actually know a long time ago. It is well known that since the guardianship of the Brussels municipalities has passed to the Brussels regional authorities, the destruction of the unlawful appointments has remained dead letter. In fact, if we look at the language courtesy agreement concluded within the Brussels Government, which is actually a language violation agreement, we can conclude that the Brussels regional guardians simply do not respect the language laws in force. The draft law means that, in addition to the power of suspension, the power of destruction is also transferred directly to the vice-governor. For two reasons, this bill is very important. First of all, existing abuses, in practice in the Brussels administration, are being stopped. Secondly, the proposal prevents it from getting worse in the future. In this context, I refer to a letter by Luckas Vander Taelen in De Standaard. The preliminary note by the pre-formateur Egbert Lachaert does not make the future look very good for the Dutch speakers in Brussels. "The so-called preparatory note by Egbert Lachaert does contain proposals on Brussels. That is the only good news for the Dutch-speaking Brusselsers. The negotiators have some interest in their city after all. Those who read the Brussels ideas of Lachaert quickly end their enthusiasm. One might expect a Flemish pre-former to end this illegal situation once and for all and propose to make the suspension of the vice-governor binding." That's actually what our bill comes down to. "Unfortunately. Lachaert wants the opposite. He even puts forward an ancient French-speaking demand, which has always been unacceptable to Brussels Flemings: bilingual services, monolingual officials. In practice, the Flemings are almost becoming pariahs in Brussels and will be given a separate window. This as a foretaste for the anti-Flemish Vivaldic coalition of Egbert Lachaert." That is why we are tabling this bill. We want to confer the power of destruction on the Vice-Governor, in accordance with the technical provisions in the document. I ask anyone who has a bit of Flemish or Dutch-speaking reflex to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u112	We shall shortly be voting on this rejection proposal. In the meantime, I propose that all the procedures for preparing the voting procedure be carried out. I have some announcements to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u113	By messages of 2 and 3 September 2020, the Walloon Parliament and Parliament of the French Community make known that they have been formed. By letters dated 2 and 3 September 2020, the Walloon Parliament and Parliament of the French Community informed us that they had been declared lawful and complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u114	I propose that you approve the Rules of Procedure of the Special Committee on VOCID-19 and make Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure applicable to information obtained in closed meetings. I propose that the Rules of Procedure of the Special Committee COVID-19 be approved and that Rule 67 of the Rules of Procedure be applied to the information obtained following the restricted meetings. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u115	By e-mail of 30 July 2020, Mr. Alain Bloch announced that he had resigned from his term as an effective member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. By e-mail of 30 July 2020, Mr Alain Bloch announced that he would resign as an effective member of the Executive Board of the Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights. Article 11, § 7 of the Act of 12 May 2019 establishing a Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights provides that ′′Where an effective member cannot, for any reason, complete his or her term of office, the alternate member who replaces him or her shall be appointed as an effective member for the remainder of his or her term of office and a new alternate member shall be appointed for the same period.′′. Article 11 (7) of the Law of 12 May 2019 establishing a Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights provides that ′′If an effective member cannot complete his mandate for any reason, the alternate member replacing him shall be appointed an effective member for the remainder of the term of office and a new alternate member shall be appointed for the same period.′′ Since the Chamber has not yet appointed the alternate members of the Institute, it must appoint a new effective member. However, since the Chamber has not yet appointed the alternate members of the Institute, the Chamber should appoint a new effective member. Since four effective members of the Board of Directors are already in the academic world category, the new effective member must come from one of the other categories: ′′judicial world′′, ′′civil society′′′ or ′′social partners′′′. Since four effective members of the Governing Council are already part of the category ′′academic world′′, the new effective member should come from one of the other categories: ′′judicial world′′, ′′social middle field′′ or ′′social partners′′. Mr Alain Bloch was the only effective member with a knowledge of German. The new member will therefore have to possess this knowledge since the second paragraph of Article 11, § 1, of the Law of 12 May 2019 provides that ′′At least one member must justify a knowledge of German′′′. Mr Alain Bloch was the only effective member with knowledge of German. The new paragraph should therefore have this linguistic knowledge, since Article 11 (1) second paragraph of the Law of 12 May 2019 provides that ′′ at least one member (...) must provide proof of the knowledge of German′′. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 September 2020, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the term of office of an effective Dutch-speaking member with knowledge of German and from the category ′′Judicial world′′, ′′civil society′′′ or ′′Social partners′′′ and set the level of German knowledge at level C1 for reading and B2 for oral expression. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 9 September 2020, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of Dutch speaking, effective member with knowledge of German and coming from the category ′′judicial world′′, ′′civil society′′ or ′′social partners′′ and to establish the level of language knowledge German at C1 for reading and B2 for speaking. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u116	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 2 July 2020, an appeal to candidates for the position of Dutch-speaking judge at the Constitutional Court was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 6 July 2020. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 2 July 2020, a call for candidates for the position of Dutch-speaking judge was published at the Constitutional Court in the Belgian Official Journal of 6 July 2020. This vacancy is filled on the basis of Article 34, § 1, 1 of the Special Law of 6 January 1989 on the Constitutional Court (Professional Legal Category). The vacancy is provided for under Article 34, § 1, 1°, of the Special Law of 6 January 1989 at the Constitutional Court (category of professional lawyer). The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Geert Jocque, section president of the Court of Cassation - Mr Pierre Lefranc, State Councillor at the Council of State - Mr Wouter Pas, State Councillor at the Council of State - Mr. Danny Pieters, regular professor at KULeuven - Mr. Jan Theunis, referendum at the Constitutional Court - Mr Bart Weekers, first Honorary Auditor of the Council of State, Flemish Ombudsman. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mr Geert Jocque, Section Chairman at the Court of Cassation - Mr Pierre Lefranc, State Council of the Council of State - Mr Wouter Pas, State Council of the Council of State - Mr Danny Pieters, just Professor at the KULeuven - Mr Jan Theunis, referendary at the Constitutional Court - Mr Bart Weekers, Honorary First Auditor at the Council of State, Flemish Ombudsman. Pursuant to article 32, first paragraph, of the above-mentioned special law, the Chamber must submit a double list. This list shall be adopted by a two-thirds majority of the votes of the members present. The new judge is appointed by the King. In accordance with Article 32 (1) of the abovementioned Special Law, the Chamber is required to propose a list of two candidates. This list shall be adopted by a majority of two thirds of the votes of the members present. The new judge is appointed by the King. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 September 2020, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 September 2020, I propose that the curriculum vitae of the candidates be given to the political groups. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u117	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 25 June 2020, a call for candidates for the term of French-speaking female member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority was published in the Belgian Monitor of 6 July 2020. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 25 June 2020, a call for candidates for the mandate of French-speaking female member of the Knowledge Centre of the Data Protection Authority was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 6 July 2020. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Ms. Claudia Allatta, lawyer - Ms Janice Dervaux, legal manager at BNP Parisbas Fortis - Ms. Marie-Hélène Descamps, Head of the Central Authority for International Cooperation, FPS Justice - Ms. Laurine Vierendaels, a lawyer with the Police Information Review Body. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: - Mrs. Claudia Allatta, attorney - Janice Dervaux, legal manager at BNP Paribas Fortis - Ms Marie-Hélène Descamps, Head of the Central Authority for International Cooperation, FPS Justice Mrs. Laurine Celebrations, attorney at the Supervisory Body on police information. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 September 2020, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. The Justice Commission will proceed to the hearing of the candidates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 September 2020, I propose that the curriculum vitae of the candidates be given to the political groups. The candidates will be heard by the Justice Committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u118	The actual and alternate members of the Information and Advice Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations were appointed during the plenary sessions on 2, 9 and 16 July 2020. During the plenary sessions of 2, 9 and 16 July 2020, the permanent and alternate members of the Information and Advisory Centre on Harmful and sectarian Organisations were appointed. In the light of Article 4(5) of the Act of 2 June 1998 establishing an Information and Opinion Centre on harmful sectarian organizations and an Administrative Unit for the Coordination of the Fight against Harmful sectarian organizations, each effective member shall have an alternate who shall replace him in case of absence. Having regard to Article 4 (5) of the Law of 2 June 1998 establishing an Information and Advisory Centre on harmful and sectarian organisations and an Administrative Coordination Cell on the fight against harmful sectarian organisations, each permanent member shall have an alternate who shall replace the member in his absence. When appointed, the alternate members appointed directly by the House were not linked to an effective member. When the alternate members were appointed directly by the Chamber, the alternate members were not linked to a permanent member. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 September 2020, I propose that you appoint Mr Peter Demey as alternate for Mr Bert Brouckaert, Mr Tom Ruysschaert as alternate for Ms Yvette De Wever, Mr Eric Brasseur as alternate for Mr Thierry Wertz and Mrs Mireille Stallmaster-Degen as alternate for Mr Guy Rapaille. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 September 2020, I propose that Mr Peter Demey be appointed as alternate member of Mr Bert Brouckaert, Mr Tom Ruysschaert as alternate member of Ms Yvette De Wever, Mr Eric Brasseur as alternate member of Mr Thierry Wertz and Ms Mireille Stallmaster-Degen as alternate member of Mr Guy Rapaille. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u119	In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 11 June 2020, a call for candidates for the terms of office of the Board of Directors of UNIA was published in the Belgian Monitor of 22 June 2020. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 11 June 2020, a call for candidates for the mandates of a member of the Board of Directors of UNIA was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 22 June 2020. The members of the Board of Directors of UNIA who are appointed by the House also sit on the Board of Directors of MYRIA. The members of the Management Board of UNIA appointed by the Chamber shall also be on the Management Board of MYRIA. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: Francophone applicants: - Mr. Jean-Yves Bassambi Ilumbe, Parliamentary Collator - Mr. Louis-Léon Christians, regular professor at UCL - Mr. Charles-Eric Clesse, auditor of Hainaut's work, regular professor at the ULB - Mr. Jean Danis, Director E.F.L.S. Holy Sepulcher - Mr. Didier Dochain, Director of the Federal Judicial Police Mons-Tournai - Ms. Achilvie Docketh-Yemalayen, educator of the Asbl ′′Youth Law Service′′ (SDJ) - Mr. Hajib El Hajjaji, Vice-President of the Collective Against Islamophobia in Belgium - Mr. Henri Goldman, Editor-in-Chief of Politics - Mr. Salim Haouach, Artistic Director ′′Ras El Hanout′′ - Mr. Alain Heselwood, retired kinesist - Christine Leclercq, facilitator ′′Workshops philo′′ and Professor of Philosophy and Citizenship at the Emile Gryson Institute - Ms. Stephanie Mees, first auditor with the Supreme Council of Justice - Mireille Mulumba Lubombo, HR Toos Project Manager at BNP Paribas - Ms Societa Ngo, Director-General of the Asbl ′′ Ciré′′ - Mr. Pierre Nilles, lawyer - Ms. Elena Pagliariccio, freelance copyist at the International Criminal Court - Mr. Pierre-Arnaud Perrouty, Director of the Human Rights League - Mr. David Quinaux, first chief inspector of local police in Charleroi - Mr Raphaël Radoux, Head of RECYFUEL - Ms Bernadette Renauld, referendum at the Constitutional Court - Mr. Mehmet Saygin, Legal Counsel at Unisoc - Mrs Pauline Tombus, Legal Attaché to the Joint Community Commission - Mr. Léopold Vanbellingen, PhD researcher at UCL - Ms Nastasja Wartel, Advisor to the Jean Gol Centre - Mrs. Amandine Weykamp, intern at ′′Colegas′′ in Madrid. French-speaking candidates: - Mr Jean-Yves Bassambi Ilumbe, Parliamentary Assistant - Mr Louis-Léon Christians, Professor at the UCL - Mr Charles-Eric Classe, employment officer of Hainaut, ordinary professor at ULB - Heer Jean Danis, Director E.F.L.S. Holy Sepulcher - Mr Didier Dochain, Director of the Federal Judicial Police Bergen-Doornik - Ms Achilvie Docketh-Yemalayen, teacher at the non-profit organisation ′′Service droit des jeunes. - Mr Henri Goldman, editor-in-chief of ′′Politique. - Mr Salim Haouach, artistic director ′′Ras El Hanout′′ - Mr Hajib El Hajjaji, Vice-President of the "Collectif contre löwslamophobia" and Belgique′′ - Mr Alain Heselwood, retired physicist - mevrouw Christine Leclercq, animator ′′Workshops philo′′ in professor of ′′Philosophy and Citizenship′′ in het Emile Gryson Institute - Ms Stéphanie Mees, First Auditor at the Supreme Court of Justice - Ms Mireille Mulumba Lubombo, HR Toos Project Manager at BNP Paribas - Ms Societa Ngo, director-general of the non-profit organisation ′′Ciré′′ - Mr Pierre Nilles, lawyer - Ms Elena Pagliariccio, freelance headliner at the International Criminal Court - Heer Pierre-Arnaud Perrouty, director van de ′′Ligue des droits humains′′ - Mr David Quinaux, Chief Inspector of the Charleroi local police - Mr Raphaël Radoux, responsible for RECYFUEL - Ms Bernadatte Renauld, referee at the Constitutional Court - Mrs Pauline Tombus, attaché-jurist at the Joint Community Committee - Mr Mehmet Saygin, Legal Adviser at Unisoc - Mr Léopold Vanbellingen, PhD researcher at the UCL - Ms Nastasja Wartel, Adviser at the ′′Centre Jean Gol′′ - Mrs. Amandine Weykamp, intern at ′′Colegas′′ in Madrid. Dutch-speaking applicants: - Mme Sharieen Aftab, chef de cabinet döjun échevin des ′′social affairs, poverty reduction, worship services, environment, social construction, equal opportunities and social economy′′ - Mrs Evelien Barbieux, Asian Councillor in Migratia, Integrity in Inburgering, Armoedebestrijding in Gelijke Kansen′′ to the N-VA party (study service) - M. Abdelkarim Bellafkih, Ingérieur de projet auprès de löw"Agency Roads and Traffic′′ - Mme Yousra Benfquih, coordinator of the Hannah Arendt Institute for Diversity, Urbanization and Citizenship - Ms Claudia Bonamini, a collaborator with JRS Europe - Ms Saartje Boutsen, Counsellor ′′Duurzaam Ondernemen′′ to the Voka - Mr Mathias Decoster, UN Special Rapporteur - Mr. Frederick De Gryse, Managing Director of Vincent de Paul Belgium - Mrs. Hanne De Roo, attached to the VBO - Ms. Ellen De Smet, Lecturer ′′Migratierecht′′ at the University of Ghent - Ms Nathalie Diesbecq, Legal Officer at the ACV confederation study department - M. Aimen Horch, membre du party board de Groen - Mr. Dirk Jacobs, regular professor at the ULB - Mr Lieven Miguel Kandolo, junior contract manager at ′′Headfirst/Source Automation Belgium′′ - Ms. Alona Lyubayeva, Head of Service at FWO - Ms. Soumaya Majdoub, researcher at the ′′Sociology′′ Department of the VUB - Mme Lien Meijerink, ′′masterstudent in social work′′ à l.o.Université de Gand - Mr Marc Michils, Managing Director of ′′Kom op tegen Kanker′′ - Mr. Rogiest Riyadh, secondary school teacher - Ms. Laura-An Rizza, writer and editor - Ms. Sarah Scheepers, coordinator at the Asbl ′′Ella′′ - Mr Geert Stas, Chairman of the ′′OuterCommittee Instituut Mevrouw Govaerts′′ - Mr. Freddy Van Eeckhout, Head ′′diversity′′ for Defence - An Van Raemdonck, researcher at the European Research Council, postdoctoral researcher VU University Amsterdam - Ms Hannah Vermaut, coordinator at the Brussels Interdisciplinary Research Centre on Migration and Minorities (VUB) - Mr. Willem Verrijdt, referendum at the Constitutional Court - Mr. Joren Vermeersch, Legal Attaché to the Foreign Litigation Council - Mr. Jogchum Vrielink, lecturer at Saint-Louis University. Dutch-speaking candidates: - Ms Shaireen Aftab, head of the cabinet of a ship of social affairs, combating poverty, services of honour, environment, building society, equal opportunities and social economy - Ms Evelien Barbieux, Advisor ′′Asiel and Migration, Integration and Integration, Combating Poverty and Equal Opportunities′′ at N-VA (study service) - Mr Abdelkarim Bellafkih, project engineer at the Roads and Transport Agency - mevrouw Yousra Benfquih, coordinator van het Hannah Arendt Institute for Diversity, Urbanization and Citizenship - Ms Claudia Bonamini, policy officer at JRS Europe - Ms Saartje Boutsen, Advisor ′′Sustainable Enterprise′′ at Voka Mr Mathias Decoster, United Nations Special Rapporteur - Mr Frederick De Gryse, Managing Director at Vincent de Paul Belgium - Mrs Hanne De Roo, attaché to the VBO - Ms Ellen De Smet, lecturer ′′Migration law′′ at Ghent University - Ms Nathalie Diesbecq, attorney at the research department Confederation ACV - Mr Aimen Horch, Member of the Green Party Board - Mr Dirk Jacobs, Professor at the ULB - Mr Lieven Miguel Kandolo, junior contract manager at ′′Headfirst/Source Automation Belgium′′ - Mrs Alona Lyubayeva, Head of Department at the FWO - Ms Soumaya Majdoub, researcher at the department of ′′Sociology′′ of the VUB - Ms. Lien Meijerink, Master's student in social work at Ghent University - Mr Marc Michils, Managing Director at ′′Come on against Cancer′′ - Mr Rogist Riyadh, teacher in secondary education - Ms Laura-An Rizza, writer and editor - Ms Hannah Vermaut, coordinator of the Brussels Interdisciplinary Research Centre on Migration and Minorities (VUB) - Ms Sarah Scheepers, coordinator of the non-profit organisation ′′Ella′′ - Mr Geert Stas, Chairman of the ′′Older Committee Institute Mrs Govaerts′′ - Mr Freddy Van Eeckhout, Defence Commissioner for Diversity - mevrouw An Van Raemdonck, researcher bij European Research Council, postdoctoral researcher VU University Amsterdam - Mr Willem Verrijdt, referee at the Constitutional Court - Mr Joren Vermeersch, Legal Attaché to the Council for Foreign Affairs - Mr Jogchum Vrielinck, Professor at the Université Saint-Louis. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 September 2020, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 September 2020, I propose that the curriculum vitae of the candidates be given to the political groups. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u120	In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 16 September 2020, I propose that you confirm the decision of the plenary meeting of 23 April 2020 to exempt Mr Jérôme Aass from the Dutch language examination. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 September 2020, I propose to confirm the decision of the plenary session of 23 April 2020 to exempt Mr Jérôme Aass from the Dutch language test. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u121	The Chamber must appoint the first alternate and the second alternate of Mr Pieter-Alexander De Brock. The Chamber should appoint the first alternate and the second alternate to Mr Pieter-Alexander De Brock. Nominations were announced in plenary on 24 October 2019. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 24 October 2019. On 18 November 2019 and 14 September 2020, the special committee responsible for parliamentary accompaniment of the P and R Committees held a hearing of the candidates. Ms Cécile Thibaut reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 16 September 2020. On 18 November 2019 and 14 September 2020 the candidates were heard by the special committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of Committees P and I. Mrs Cécile Thibaut reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 16 September 2020. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 September 2020, I propose that you appoint the first alternate at the plenary meeting on 24 September 2020 and the second alternate at the plenary meeting on 1 October 2020. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 16 September 2020, I propose that the first alternate be appointed at the plenary session of 24 September 2020 and the second alternate at the plenary session of 1 October 2020. In view of the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the Chamber, I propose that you follow the following procedure: Given the difficulty of organising a secret ballot in the hemisphere, I propose that the following procedure be used: - Members may vote from Friday 18 September 2020 until Thursday 24 September 2020 at 2 p.m. The ballot paper and parliamentary document No. 878/2 are at their disposal in the General Secretariat. - Members may vote from Friday 18 September 2020 until Thursday 24 September 2020 at 14 a.m. The ballot and the parliamentary document No. 878/2 are at the disposal of the General Secretariat. I would remind you that only members can receive the ballot paper, it must be completed on the spot and deposited in the ballot box. I would remind you that only Members can receive the ballot, fill it in on the spot and deposit it in the ballot box. - The vote containing the ballot papers will be opened during the plenary session on Thursday, 24 September 2020. - The urn with the ballots will be opened at the plenary session on Thursday 24 September 2020. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u122	Mr Piedboeuf, you are asking for urgency for the simple motion. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request. The emergency is adopted. The urgency is accepted.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u123	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the draft law approving the Cooperation Agreement between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the Walloon Region, the German-speaking Community and the Joint Community Commission, concerning the joint processing of data by Sciensano and the contact centres designated by the competent federated entities or by the competent agencies, by the hygiene inspection services and by mobile teams as part of a follow-up of contacts with persons (presumed) infected with the VOCID-19 coronavirus based on a database with Sciensano, concluded in Brussels on 25 August 2020 and withdrawing Royal Decree No 18 of 4 May 2020, Royal Decree No 25 of 28 May 2020 and Royal Decree No 44 of 26 June 2020 concerning a database with Sciensano in the context of the fight against the spread of VOCID-19 coronavirus, No 1490/1. The Government requested the urgency statement pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when submitting the draft law approving the Cooperation Agreement between the Federal State, the Flemish Community, the Walloon Region, the German-speaking Community and the Joint Community Committee, concerning the joint data processing by Sciensano and the contact centres designated by the competent federated entities or by the competent agencies, health inspections and mobile teams in the framework of a contact investigation involving persons (probably) infected with the coronavirus COVID-19 on the basis of a database at Sciensano, closed in Brussels on 25 August 2020 and repealing Royal Decree No. 18 of 4 May 2020, Royal Decree No. 25 of 28 May 2020 and Royal Decree No. 44 of 26 June 2020 on a data base at Sciensano in the context of the fight against the spread of the coronavirus COVID-19, No. 1490/1. I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u124	Mr President, I will support it, but I would like the government to give at least one responsibility in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u125	You have a point.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u126	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I consider that these proposals have been taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider the consideration of these proposals to be adopted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u127	The urgency of the motion for a resolution No. 1480/1 by Mrs Gijbels cs taunting the preparation for the human pandemics. I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u128	Mr Laaouej, you are asking for the urgency of the proposed law amending the coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of the health care professions, in order to expand the possibilities for doctors from Lebanon to be able to undergo limited clinical training in Belgium, for humanitarian reasons following the tragic explosion in the port of Beirut in August 2020, n° 1514/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u129	Mr President, I am asking for urgency for this bill. Following the explosions in Lebanon, a wide range of Lebanese medical students are unable to continue their medical training and internships, in particular. There are a few Belgian universities to host them so they can continue their internships, so they can avoid losing two years. I believe it is a humanitarian act that we would do. Of course, I encourage other colleagues to support my request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u130	I propose that the group presidents take a decision on this request. I propose that the group chairmen take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u131	These questions were further developed at the plenary session on 17 September 2020. These interviews were held at the plenary session of 17 September 2020. Four motions were tabled: - a simple motion was tabled by Messrs. Benoît Piedboeuf, Georges Gilkinet, Kristof Calvo, Ahmed Laaouej, Servais Verherstraeten and Vincent Van Quickenborne and Mrs Meryame Kitir; - a motion of distrust was tabled by Ms Barbara Pas; - a motion of distrust was tabled by Messrs. Peter Mertens et Raoul Hedebouw; - a motion of distrust was tabled by Mr. Peter de Roover. Four motions were tabled: - a simple motion was tabled by Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne and Mrs Meryame Kitrir; - a motion of censure was tabled by Mrs Barbara Pas; - a motion of censure was tabled by Mr Peter Mertens and Mr Raoul Hedebouw; - a motion of censure was tabled by Mr Peter De Roover. Since the motion is pure and simple and has the priority of law, I put this motion to the vote. As the simple motion takes precedence automatically, I shall put this motion to the vote. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u132	Yes [[84]] Yes No. 54 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 142 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u133	The simple motion was adopted. As a result, motions of distrust have lapsed. The simple motion has been passed. Consequently, the motions of censure lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u134	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Start of voting / Start of the vote. End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u135	Yes 98 Yes Non 43 No. Abstensions 0 Abstentions Total 141 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 437/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 437/1 was therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u136	Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Georges Gilkinet, Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Ahmed Laaouej, Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, and Mrs Meryame Kitrir, tabled an order which reads as follows: "In view of the announcement by the negotiating parties that the new government's coalition agreement will be ready by 1 October, the Chamber decided to put "Government Declaration" on the agenda of its plenary session on Thursday 1 October as an item on the agenda." A point of order was tabled by Messrs. Benoît Piedboeuf, Georges Gilkinet, Kristof Calvo, Ahmed Laaouej, Servais Verherstraeten and Vincent Van Quickenborne and Ms. Meryame Kitir are worded as follows: "Considering the announcement by the negotiating parties that the government agreement of the new government will be finalized by 1 October, the House decides to include in the agenda of its plenary meeting on Thursday, 1 October, the item "Government declaration".
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u137	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 79 Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 129 Total
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u138	Consequently, the Chamber adopts the order motion. Accordingly, the House adopted the point of order. The item will be included in the agenda of the plenary meeting on 1 October 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2020-09-17-55-plenair-ip055x.u139	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 24 September 2020 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, September 24, 2020 at 2:15 p.m.
